"This paper describes the work of the Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics (RTCA) as of March, 1949, the time of its presentation before the 1949 IRE Convention. The author's response to the word \"influence\" in the title given him is simply that the influence of an organization is proportional to the service it renders. As the RTCA exists solely to render service, it does have potential influence. The paper explains something about the service which the organization provides."
"This paper lists the essential design features that should be incorporated into a broadcast studio, and illustrates the manner in which certain European broadcasting houses have expressed these design features architecturally. The paper is comprised of five principal parts: I. Introduction; II. Design Criteria; III. Studio Shaping; IV. Control of Reverberation Time and Diffusion; and, V. Reduction of Transmitted Sound. Included in the text are curves of preferred reverberation times for studios, preferred reverberation time versus frequency characteristics, and means for providing necessary diffusion and absorption of the sound in a room."
"The problems in the design of linear amplifiers are presented from the point of view of the radio engineer. Equations are given for the noise generated in the input circuits of these amplifiers for ideal cases. Typical amplifying circuits are presented, and the solutions of the design problems are illustrated by the circuit diagrams and performance of a commercial linear amplifier."
"This paper deals with the design and the static and dynamic behavior of a new, high-efficiency traveling-wave amplifier tube. The preliminary experimental models of, the tube whose characteristics are to be reported here involve the principle of the crossed, static electrical and magnetic fields."
"The author presents results of an investigation of errors in a phase-shift telemetering system. In evolving a method to transmit angular position data, the selection of electrical phase angle to represent the desired data is a natural one, since there is a great deal of similarity between the two quantities. Since phase shift is a relative quantity, it is necessary to transmit a reference signal as well as a phase-shifted signal; and in order to transmit both of these on a common carrier, and to avoid angular ambiguities, the phaseshifted wave is transmitted at some integral multiple of the reference frequency. At the receiver, the frequency of the reference wave is multiplied prior to comparison with the phase-shifted signal. Minimum bandwidth is required when the integral multiple is 2, and it is with this particular system (which is perhaps the most common of all) that the following discussion of errors is concerned, although the analysis made for this case may be extended to others as well. This method has been successfully applied in plane-toground telemetering and in the relaying of shaft-position data in general. It is pointed out that the basic telemetering system will be of doubtful value when long-distance transmission is required, because of the distortion and error introduced by multipath propagation."
"Problems involved in projection cathode-ray tube screens are discussed. The development of a screen with good efficiency and little color shift with current change is described."
"In an electrostatic memory system, the words are stored as charge patterns on the screen of a cathode-ray tube. Memory is extended by a systematic regeneration process. All experiments were performed on a standard cathode-ray tube. This paper discusses the fundamental theory behind electrostatic storage. The principal problem was that of finding a method for storing the charges such that two easily and reliably distinguishable states could be established at various points on the face of the tube. After experimenting with various patterns, a dot-circle combination was chosen as superior to all those tested. The dot, representing binary one, is generated by sharply focusing the beam on a spot. The circle is generated by imposing high-frequency sinusoidal electromotive forces, 90° apart, on the vertical and horizontal deflection plates. The paper then offers a comparison of the dot-circle pattern with the several other systems of electrostatic storage now under test. The details of numerous experiments are given, together with a description of the apparatus used for test. The effects of phospbor type, gun structure, tube diameter, accelerating voltage, leakage, transients, and other factors affecting memory are discussed. The concluding section of the paper describes the various types of large capacity high-speed memory designs which could be constructed from a reliable electrostatic memory tube."
"Basic circuits utilizing germanium diodes in electrically pulsed systems are described. The circuits are of the following types: 1. Coincidence circuits-output signal occurs only when all the inputs receive signals simultaneously. 2. Mixing circuits-output signal occurs when any one of the inputs receives a signal. The analyses of transient response of the output signal and the input impedance are given."
"A new type of cavity suitable for excitation by a plurality of negative grid tubes in phase is described. In such a generator, which may be either an amplifier or an oscillator, the efficiency is independent of the number of tubes, and very large sizes are possible, limited only by the occurrence of unwarranted modes. This limit has not yet been reached in practice. The upper frequency limit is the same as that for an individual tube in an optimum circuit. All forms of modulation may be used."
"Simulated radio-frequency voltage is added to the familiar rubber sheet model for use in vacuum-tube design by causing an electrode structure to oscillate vertically. In this way information about the performance of large-signal, long-transit angle tubes can be obtained quickly and vividly. The scale factors work out that a few cycles per minute in the model can correspond to many hundreds of megacycles in the corresponding tube."
"The theory of microphonism in planar triodes is extended to cover the practical case of simultaneous electrical and mechanical excitation. It is shown that, in addition to other components, microphonic plate current components result at the sum and difference frequencies of the two types of excitation for transverse motion of any of the three electrodes. Experiments providing verification of the theory, with a tube especially designed and constructed for this purpose are described. On the basis of the theory, (1) an electrical nondestructive method for determining which electrode of the tube is set into vibration at a given mechanical frequency is outlined, and (2) a method for considerably reducing the microphonic output of certain high-gain amplifiers of practical interest is described."
"Using a double parabola approximation to the Chapman distribution of electron density as a function of height, and the assumption of a curved-ionosphere, curved-earth geometry, analytic expressions are obtained for the true height of reflection, ray path, reflection coefficient, ground range, and group path. Graphical results are given for the maximum usable frequency factor. Where possible, the above results are compared with results obtained by assuming a plane ionosphere. All of these calculations are made under the usual restrictions of neglecting the earth's magnetic field and most of the effects of collisions of electrons with heavy particles."
"An expression is obtained for the frequency and amplitude of the output of the cathode-coupled oscillator. The effects of supply voltage variations are calculated, and the results are confirmed by experiment. It is concluded that the cathode-coupled oscillator is capable of providing excellent frequency stability."
"Problems relating to reflection, refraction (including continuously variable index of refraction), or scattering can be simulated by propagating centimeter-wave energy in a large sheet of low-loss dielectric material. The conditions of the problem are set up by imbedding objects in the sheet, varying its thickness, or coating its surfaces. One surface of the sheet is then scanned with the probe of a phase-front plotter, and lines of equal phase are recorded on a separate sheet of paper. The behavior of the energy can be judged from the recording so obtained."
"The design analysis of a transverse magnetic mode piston attenuator which may be utilized as a microwave absolute standard in the comparison method of measuring attenuation is described. The system employs a coaxial section input and a coaxial section output separated by a cylindrical waveguide section operating below cutoff. The electromagnetic coupling between the two coaxial sections is comprised of exponentially decaying field components of the TMommodes associated with the waveguide section. A method of satisfying input and output boundary conditions based upon circular symmetry is detailed and applied in approximate form to obtain numerically the attenuation, input impedance, and VSWR characteristics of a model designed for a wavelength of 10 centimeters. The predicted data apply to coupling separations of 0.5 cm and higher."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
" Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"An outline of the history of television is followed by a detailed description of the design and development of some English television pickup tubes."
"The question \"who is the true inventor,\" is often asked about many modern inventions. In an attempt to establish a criterion for ascertaining the true role of different contributors to human progress, we must make it clear to ourselves as to what factors are usually involved in making great inventions and discoveries. It seems that a satisfactory answer to this query can be found by postulating the following working hypothesis. Imagine that all kinds of general ideas, when time is ripe, are found, so to say, \"floating in the air.\" How they get there is immaterial to the present thesis. As general progress marches on, humanity reaches different levels of intellectual and spiritual maturity, at which it becomes capable of assimilating certain ideas heretofore unrevealed to it, or revealed and long forgotten. In this general evolutionary movement a few individuals, pioneers of the spirit, become attuned earlier than others to some of these ideas, more readily respond to them and perceive their manifestation in observable phenomena, while other people pass them by without noticing them. History shows that, in addition to some other necessary qualities, the condition without which the matter cannot be, for such an ability to perceive and to discover seems to be a spirit full of interest and devotion to the subject and the absence of prejudices. These people become channels through which humanity as a whole receives new ideas. They are those who are born great. It is argued that the outlined hypothesis and its inferences, once accepted, can help one more easily to untangle the existing ambiguities, discrepancies, and outright errors in historical information as often given in textbooks on science, historical essays and in so-called historical movies."
"A source of error in radio navigation or distance-measuring systems involving the measurement of phase is discussed. Experimental evidence is given showing the effect of certain reradiating structures on the accuracy of such phase measurements."
"If one thinks of the voltage of a radio signal as a function of the location of some target point, then the phase of this voltage is also such a function. One might imagine that since the voltage exhibits no peculiar properties, neither does the phase; but this is not true. There are many cases for which the phase becomes a multivalued function. This fact is very important in the theory of the phase measurement type of radio surveying or navigational systems; for the phase difference between two points depends not only on the location of the points, but also on the path over which the target is carried."
"A description is given of a microwave propagation test which was conducted over a period of a year with simultaneous transmission on wavelengths of 16.2, 7.2, 4.7, and 3.1 cm over an unobstructed 42-mile overland path. Comparative charts depict variations in daily fading range, illustrate diurnal and seasonal characteristics of fading, and reveal the marked disparagement between winter and summer fading. Curves are presented showing relative field-strength distribution for both winter and summer periods, and also the distribution of hourly minima. These curves may be useful in considerations bearing on continuity of service that may be expected with relation to wavelength and to time of day, winter or summer."
"Magnetic cores of fairly rectangular hysteresis loop material are used as a trigger device. Magnetic fluxes are used instead of electrical currents to indicate the two stable positions of the tigger. This paper shows how the magnetic flux level may be detected without a mechanical motion. The construction and functioning of several types of such magnetic triggers are discussed."
"This paper covers a study of feedback considerations in low-power negative-gnrd triode oscillators for the frequency range of 100 to 1,000 Mc. Discussion is mainly confined to oscillators using a single tuned circuit between grid and plate in the modified Colpitts circuit wherein the feedback is provided by the internal tube capacitances. The optimum feedback conditions are derived, and the analysis is applied to several typical oscillators."
"As the conventional triode oscillator is applied to higher and higher frequencies, one or both of two phenomena finally prevent oscillation. These phenomena are transit-time effects and self-resonance of the tube elements. The analysis described in this paper refers these effects to the resistance and reactance requirements of the tube upon the external circuit. In those instances where a given triode is limited primarily by the reactance effects, due to large lead inductance, it is shown that the self-resonant frequency of the tube is not the upper limit of oscillation if one departs from the conventional parallel-tuned circuit and uses a series-tuned circuit instead."
"Theoretical equations are derived for the insertion loss of a three-terminal capacitor which check the experimental curves within their precision of measure. The condenser is assumed to behave like some equivalent transmission line and the line constants of this line determined as a function of frequency. Skin effect and proximity effect are taken into consideration, and engineering curves are plotted to make the prediction of the behavior of such a condenser easy to determine."
"Theoretical considerations are presented to justify the frequent appearance in class-C amplifiers of radio-frequency plate voltages which are greater than the dc plate voltage. A method is developed for predicting the magnitude of this rf voltage under any given set of conditions. This method is then experimentally verified for a given case."
"A new tube is described which is fundamentally a Barkhausen oscillator with an electron gun and a cavity resonator. The tube is inherently inefficient, but is capable of tuning over extremely wide frequency ranges. For one single tube, for instance, the wavelength ranges from 4.5 to 12 cm and the output power from 0.1 to 1.0 watt."
"A Philips (Penning)-type ionization gauge is described which, unlike most former gauges of this type described in the literature, is capable of measuring vacuum down to 10-7mm of Hg. Construction and operation details of the gauge are given in addition to its advantages and disadvantages as compared to hot-cathode-type ionization gauges."
"An approximate analysis of the cathode-coupled multivibrator is given. The result is an expression for the period of the output pulse in terms of the circuit elements, rather than voltages which have to be determined graphically. A series expansion of the final expression is used to show that the output period is nearly a linear function of one of the voltages in the circuit, and can be made more nearly linear by a proper choice of the circuit parameters."
"The impulse generator-electronic switch is an instrument developed primarily to facilitate the design and production of radar networks such as delay, pulse-forming, and sweep networks. The instrument may be used to test any network that can be arranged to store a dc charge. Discharge characteristics of microsecond order, produced by a reference network and the network under test, are simultaneously displayed in pictorial form for comparative measurements. The first part of the paper describes representative applications and, with the aid of cathode-ray-oscilloscope traces, illustrates the simplicity of performance; the second part describes the circuit functions in detail."
"Increased gain stability and gain-bandwidth product result from the use of inverse feedback in an intermediate-frequency amplifier. Improvement in gain stability is related to the number of cascaded stages, the stage gain, and the magnitude of the feedback. A circuit is described which uses feedback over a pair of cascaded stages. Generalized selectivity curves for this feedback couple axe shown, and the design procedure is outlined. A description of an experimental amplifier concludes the paper."
"In order to utilize a power tube efficiently, the static characteristics of this tube must be known. From these characteristics, optimum load lines may be determined and circuit components of the equipment may be defined. The problem of obtaining these characteristics is usually not a simple one, due to the power-input limitations put upon a tube. For this reason, characteristic curves were previously plotted by capacitor-discharge methods or were calculated mathematically, using low power points as references. This paper describes a method of obtaining this information, employing pulse circuits commonly used in radar transmitters."
"A study is made of the design of broad-band (2: 1 tuning range) resonators for use with reflex klystrons of the external cavity type. The resonators considered are variations of a general type consisting of a section of waveguide with movable shorting plungers at each end and the tube located at the center. They are divided into two groups: quarter-wave or fundamental mode resonators whose high-frequency limit is set by the physical size of the tube envelope, and three-quarter-wave resonators which allow operation up to the electronic limit of the tube. Methods of treating the mode interference problem are considered for both classes of resonators."
"The theoretical problem of a bend on a two-wire transmission line is analyzed by the vector-potential method. The equivalent circuit elements are obtained by comparing the variableline parameters near the bend with the conventional line parameters found on an infinite line. The effect of the nonrotational symmetry of the axial vector potential on the conductor surfaces is treated by an approximate method to obtain one of the equivalent series elements. Experimental values of the circuit elements for the bend were found to be in good agreement with the theoretical. Good agreement was also found between experimental and theoretical values for open-ended and bridged-end lines."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Lists the university and Institue representative by name."
"Lists the committee or group and Institue representative by name."
" Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper gives a general account of the recently discovered conduction type counters. Among the topics discussed are: The nature of the counting phenomenon, preparation of crystals, types of useful crystals, experimental technique, polarization, speed, limitations and comparisons with other types of counters."
"The recording tube is a cathode-ray type of storage tube embodying a new operating principle which enables reading to be accomplished without disturbing the information written into the tube. An output signal comprising a full modulation of several microamperes can be read out of the tube for 20,000 complete scannings of the storage surface with no appreciable deterioration in the signal quality and only a few per cent decrease in signal level. The output signal may be observed on a monitor tube which is scanned in synchronism with the reading beam and it may also be observed directly on a fluorescent screen within the recording tube. The theory underlying the operation of the recording tube is developed in detail."
"The principle of distributed amplification has recently been proposed as a means for obtaining amplification with conventional vacuum tubes over very great bandwidths. Unlike conventional circuits, distributed amplifiers have an attainable gain-bandwidth product which is not limited by shunt capacitance associated with the vacuum tubes and circuit wiring. This paper cites experimental results which essentially corroborate the predictions based on first-order theory. It is pointed out that when extreme bandwidths are sought, these predicted characteristics are modified by several factors which are difficult to control in actual practice. Corrective methods are available, however, which permit a limited control over these modifying effects. These methods are discussed and their applications are illustrated by measurements on actual amplifiers with pass-bands on the order of 200 to 300 Mc."
"A number of articles and patents dealing with the properties and design of phase splitting networks, particularly in conjunction with single sideband modulators, have been published in the last few years. However, all of them have been restricted either to particular methods of design or to a particular number of design parameters. The present paper gives the results of a general investigation of phase splitting networks, dealing separately with network analysis, network synthesis and performance curve approximation problems. For the most important types of curve approximation, Taylor and Tchebycheff approximations, explicit formulas for any number of design parameters and for any required closeness of approximation are stated. Alternatives to the classical all-pass lattice network are given, and dissipation compensated phase shift networks are developed. In this way, clear and comparatively simple design instructions for simple as well as for difficult specifications for phase splitting networks are obtained. Furthermore, it is believed that some of the theoretical results obtained and methods developed, e.g., the Taylor and Tchebycheff approximations, the method of obtaining dissipation compensation, one of the methods of network synthesis, and the representation of approximating curves as iterated functions of two variables, with fractional index of iteration, are novel and of general theoretical interest."
"Given a known pulse superimposed on fluctuation noise having a known spectrum, we determine the frequency response of that linear device which would give the maximum value for the ratio between peak amplitude of the signal and the root-mean-square of the noise at the output. This result is applied to the case in which the fluctuation noise has a flat spectrum, and it is shown that in that case the optimal network is physically realizable if the pulse differs from zero for only a finite interval of time. The noise-suppressing efficiency of a conventional RC circuit is computed for pulse shapes of practical interest."
"Contact difference in potential for a conventional-type oxide-coated cathode diode is defined in terms of voltage required to establish zero field between the anode and cathode. Contact difference in potential has been found to be relatively unaffected by a wide fange of impurities added to the coating. Tests have shown that the Ectmeasurement is a sensitive technique for observing changes which take place on an initially clean anode."
"A new type of high-power, broad-band probe attenuator is described which operates on a capacitance-divider principle. A typical design reduces input powers up to 1,000 watts, by a fixed ratio, to a low level which can be conveniently measured by bolometric means. The prototype consists of a probe, a buffer-equalizer attenuator, and a lossy tapered matched load. Two designs are required to cover the frequency band 1,000 to 10,000 Mc with relatively constant attenuation and voltage standing-wave ratio below 1.30."
"Annual distribution curves are obtained for values of total atmospheric attenuation over a 50-km path and a 1-km path at Washington, D.C. These results are obtained by analyzing the available meteorological data, though these are usually ill-suited to the purpose; theoretical coefficients are used for converting into radio attenuation values. The problem of obtaining rainfall rates on the longer path is solved empirically using data from a network of rain gauges; these data, together with additional inference, indicate that annual statistics for hourly point depths may be interpreted as equivalent to instantaneous rates on a path about 50 km long. Extensions of the results to other portions of the country are discussed."
"This paper reports measurements of the permittivity of moist air under different conditions of pressure, temperature, and water-vapor content taken at a frequency of 3,036 Mc. The method and apparatus used are described. Results of observations made are given, and their probable accuracy is discussed."
"A method is shown for determining transmission time for each mode of transmission via the ionosphere and obliquely incident thereupon. The method makes use of an interrogator-responsor at the transmitting site and a beacon transpondor at the receiving site. Limitations of the method are discussed and preliminary results are shown for a 1,500-mile, north-south path."
"Waveguide bandpass transmission filters, each stage of which is composed of two similar irises spaced a distance s apart, are considered. The distance between stages for effectively quarter-wave coupling is shown to be s±1/4λg/g. The loaded Q of one stage is computed, and the frequency consciousness of the iris susceptance is shown to have no effect on the spacing condition, but to have a substantial effect upon the loaded Q, especially for low values of Q."
"Standard network theory is used to explain the advantages of RC networks in the design of filters with frequency response characteristics which are continuously adjustable over several decades. The theoretical discussion is followed by a review of some simple circuits from which most filter characteristics may be obtained. The shape of the response as a function of frequency is determined largely by passive networks. Tubes serve to isolate the passive networks and, in some cases, to invert their response by means of feedback amplification. An example of the method is demonstrated by the design of an adjustable low-pass high-pass filter."
"Design formulas are derived and presented graphically for a wide-band waveguide filter structure analyzed in a previous paper. The design procedure is outlined and a brief example given. Experiments indicate that the design cutoff frequencies and the infinite-attenuation frequency may be relied upon within one or two per cent."
"The electromagnetic fields throughout all of space produced by an excited finite length slot in an infinite extent perfectly conducting metallic sheet have been calculated by the double current sheet diffraction formula. The space dependence of the fields is the same as that of a thin wire antenna, but with the electric and magnetic fields interchanged. An integration of Poynting's vector over the surface of the slot gives an input resistance of 363 ohms for a center-driven half-wavelength slot. The mutual admittance between slots necessary in slot array calculations is also determined."
"In a paper published in 1909, Sommerfeld stated the existence of a surface-type wave in the radiation of a vertical Hertzian dipole over a plane earth. Weyl, in 1919, objected to this solution. Despite a great number of papers on this problem, it had not been definitively settled so far. Its solution is given in the present paper by proving in a quite general way that this surface wave cannot be included in the said dipole radiation and by pointing out a thusfar hidden error in Sommerfeld's computation."
"An analysis is given of triple-tuned coupled circuits for high-Q cases in which the couplings between circuits are kept small and the response is symmetrical about a reference frequency. Both synchronously tuned and asynchronously tuned cases are investigated in detail. Universal response curves are derived and contour plots of gain bandwidth product are given. The results for the transitional and triple-peak response cases are compared with double-tuned coupled circuits. The advantages of triple-tuned circuits are shown to be their more uniform response in the pass band and fifty per cent better sideband selectivity."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"About fifty years ago, much scientific work was done on the passage of electricity in air between two electrodes, one of which was red hot. A little later, as an outgrowth from these experiments, electron emission in a high vacuum proved to be of such interest and promise in the new but expanding science of electronics that the phenomenon in air has been all but forgotten. However, a new, interesting, and useful leak detector has been developed from this neglected effect, and there is reason to believe that positive-ion emission may well be of importance for other applications."
"Experiments with a device similar to the Bell Transistor, but with a high input impedance, are reported. In the present stage of development it appears useful as an impedance transducer with an appreciable current and power gain at lower frequencies."
"A novel technique for obtaining stable and extremely small spacings is reported. Though of possible general usefulness, it is elaborated on from the standpoint of electronics only. Its essential feature is the use of insulating spacers of glass, quartz, or plastic, drawn down from convenient size to microscopic dimensions and combined with metal or semiconductor electrodes. To illustrate some applications, the use of the technique in experimental work is described."
"A method is developed for measuring the velocity of winds in the 90- to 110-kilometer height region of the upper atmosphere. From the Doppler frequency shift imparted to a continuous-wave reflection from a meteoric ionization column, a measure of the wind drift of the trail is found. Statistical analysis enables average wind velocities to be measured to within perhaps 20 per cent, and direction to 20°, in a period of one or two hours. Observations made during the early morning hours in the summer of 1949 show typical average wind velocities to be 125 kilometers per hour, with motions from south-southwest and north the most common. On some occasions, evidence of a nonuniform wind structure is found."
"A method is described wherein the dielectric constant and conductivity of lossy materials may be determined quickly and conveniently. A sample of the material is incorporated as the dielectric of a capacitor which acts as a load terminating a slotted measuring line. The complex impedance of this load can be determined by the conventional method from the voltage standing-wave ratio and position of the minimum. The inherent limitations of the method restrict its application to medium- and high-loss materials because of the very high standing-wave ratios encountered as the conductivity decreases. However, the dielectric constant alone may be measured for low-loss materials. Standardized components are used throughout, with the exception of the sample holder."
"An X-ray goniometer is turned into a double-crystal goniometer for use on precision cut AT quartz plates. Errors due to temperature change and to X-ray refraction are discussed. Precision of about one-tenth of a minute of arc is attained."
"A type of phase modulation system is described in which modulation of the phase angle of a carrier wave is brought about through an amplitude modulation process. The modulating voltage emis first impressed in parallel on a \"sine phase converter\" and a \"cosine phase converter,\" which produce respectively, at their outputs, the functions sin kemand cos kem.The first of these modulating functions is used to modulate, in a balanced modulator, the carrier wave, cos ωt. The second modulating function modulates in a similar balanced modulator the same carrier wave displaced in phase by 90 degrees, or sin ωt. The outputs of the two modulators are added to produce a phase-modulated wave in accordance with the trigonometric identity cos kemcos ωt+sin kemsin ωt= sin (ωt -kem). The \"phase converters\" proposed consist of oscilloscope tubes in which the phosphor has been replaced with an anode for collecting electrons, and a mask is interposed in the electron beam in order to produce, at the anode, a voltage proportional to the sine or cosine of the linear beam deflection, which in turn is proportional to the modulating voltage applied to the deflecting plates. It is indicated that phase deviations as high as ±25π radians may be obtained with this system."
"Heretofore, the determination of attenuation from impedance measurements has been applied to cases in which the reflections from the attenuator terminals were negligibly small. In the proposed method no restrictions are placed upon the attenuator except the requirement that it be a linear, passive, four-terminal network. The dissipative and reflective components of attenuation ADand ARare measured separately. ADis shown to be a function of the efficiency of the attenuator. The efficiency is determined from reflection coefficient measurements of the short-circuited attenuator. ARis determined from a single voltage-standing-wave ratio measurement of the attenuator when terminated in a matched load. Experimental data show close agreement with an independent method of determining attenuation."
"A method for the direct measurement of the amplitude and phase of current and charge distribution along cylindrical antennas is presented for both transmission and reception. This method is applicable not only to the cylindrical antenna treated here but to many other antennas which may be used over a ground screen. The measured distribution on the transmitting antenna is continued into the coaxial line so that a complete picture of the system as a whole is obtained. The measured distribution on the receiving antenna is then shown to vary as a function of the terminating load as predicted by theory."
"On the basis of six months' data, a comprehensive study was instituted of the atmospheric static intensity at a frequency of 150 kc in northern and southern Canada. Three noise levels, the average (a measure of the mean atmospheric noise level), quasi peak (a measure of the highest noise bursts indicated by the recorder), and absolute quasi peak (a measure of the maximum value of the highest noise bursts indicated by the recorder) were determined. The average level furnished a record of the average noise caused by bursts and background rumble; the quasi-peak level of atmospherics furnished a record of noise bursts (superimposed upon the usually negligible background); and the absolute quasi-peak level supplied the highest value of the bursts. Various temporal and spatial distribution studies of the intensity of atmospherics were effected, such as diurnal, seasonal, latitudal, and the like. The diurnal trend is absent or small during winter but increases markedly as summer is approached. The familiar rise and decline of noise intensity about sunset and sunrise, respectively, is found. Toward summer the increase in noise level rise occurs earlier and earlier, sometimes taking place shortly after noon, local standard time (LST). The daily cycle usually attains a minimum after sunrise and a maximum after sunset, although exceptions are found. Seasonally, the static intensity is higher in June than January. At southern stations noise increased progressively from January to June."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A high-quality color television system could be made by transmitting independent red, green, and blue images of equally high quality. The bandwidth required by this method would be three times as great as that required for a black-and-white picture of equal resolution and repetition rate, regardless of whether the images are transmitted in sequence or simultaneously. Tests made on the human eye, and reported herein, indicate that the acuity for detail residing in color differences is less than half as great as the acuity for detail residing in brightness. Therefore, if the brightness values in a color television system are transmitted with fidelity up to 4 Mc, it is adequate to transmit the individual color values up to only 2 Mc, with a corresponding saving in bandwidth. In the \"mixed-highs\" system described, each of the three color images uses frequencies from zero up to 2 Mc and the \"mixed highs,\" which carry only the brightness values of the fine detail, use a video frequency band from 2 to 4 Mc. The total width of the video bands then is only 8 Mc instead of 12 which would be required for three identical bands from zero up to 4 Mc. The bandwidth saved by the mixed-highs technique is obtained not at the expense of picture quality, but is a legitimate saving that arises by avoiding the transmission of information which the eye is unable to use."
"Metallized capacitor paper is attracting widespread interest as a way of reducing capacitor size. In metallized paper capacitors, the usual metal foil is replaced by a thin layer of metal evaporated onto the surface of the paper. Lacquering the paper prior to metallizing increases the dielectric strength and insulation resistance, reduces atmospheric corrosion of the metal, and diminishes the rate of loss of electrode metal by electrolysis. Owing to the extreme thinness of the metal layer, metallized paper capacitors are subject to a type of failure not ordinarily found in conventional capacitors. This type of failure consists of the loss of electrode by electrolysis and occurs under dc potential when the ionic conductivity is high, as results, for example, from the presence of moisture. For this reason, it is recommended that special precautions be taken to keep the ionic conductivity low, in particular with respect to thorough and effective drying and sealing of the capacitor units."
"Metallized paper capacitors are being introduced into telephone apparatus wherever size is of prime importance. It is shown that low-voltage metallized paper capacitors with about half the volume of a foil-paper capacitor of conventional design have about the same characteristics as the latter. Performance data are discussed which indicate that such capacitors will give long service when used within their voltage rating and when well-protected against moisture. It is pointed out that this type of capacitor should be used within its voltage rating if sparking with its attendant circuit noise is to be avoided. When sparking does occur due to abnormal voltage conditions no permanent damage results."
"The paper describes the nature of bioelectric potentials and their essential properties, with particular emphasis on the types of amplifiers needed to study various phases of bioelectric activity. Some of the problems and solutions to bioelectric instrumentation are discussed."
"A search for deleterious effects upon animals exposed to intense microwave radiation was made and definite damage to the eye and to the testicle was found. Ten centimeters proved to be the most dangerous wavelength. The effects observed could be accounted for by the elevated temperatures produced by absorption of microwaves in the organism. A theory is presented in which these temperatures are calculated; fair agreement with experiment was obtained. This work demonstrates the need for caution on the part of those who work with intense microwave sources, and for the establishment of standards for the protection of personnel exposed to such radiation. The observations which are discussed below are made up of material most of which either has been or will be published elsewhere. The results are so important to radio engineers, however, that the writer feels justified in rewriting them for publication in PROCEEDINGS OF THE I.R.E., particularly since many of these results would otherwise appear only in the medical literature and would not be brought to the attention of the average radio engineer. A preliminary report on this work was published early in 1949."
"The phase-modulation sidebands obtained from a klystron amplifier with beam-voltage modulation may be used to give mixing action. The output resonator is used to select a phase-modulation side-frequency component to give power output at a sum or difference frequency. The method of obtaining phase modulation in a beam-type amplifier is described. The construction and operating details are given for a klystron amplifier which has a mixer output of 1 watt over a 20-Mc band for a 6,000-Mc television relay system."
"Delay distortion in ordinary solenoidal delay lines is primarily caused by the decay of solenoid inductance resulting from a reduced magnetic coupling at the higher frequencies. An analysis of the phase characteristic of delay lines which employ solenoid bridging capacitances to compensate for this inductance variation is presented. The relations necessary for determining the delay distortion and effective bandwidth corresponding to any amount of compensation are given. The analysis is verified by observations on several experimental lines, wherein the bridging capacities are obtained by means of isolated metal patches placed in proximity to the solenoid."
"It is pointed out that the impedance of a folded dipole relative to that of a simple dipole can be adjusted by employing conductors of different diameters for the separate elements of the folded dipole. Increased impedance ratios can be obtained by the use of additional elements. It is shown that the impedance ratio can be obtained from the current ratio and suitable expressions are derived. Practical examples are given."
"Methods of field-strength measurement are reviewed briefly and the design of field meters conforming closely to the conditions imposed by antenna theory is considered Two instruments approaching ideal theoretical conditions and suitable for reference standards are described. The first of these contains an adjustable matching network. The second utilizes very fine wires on a styrofoam support."
"This paper intends to give some aspects and results of early German work on microwave optics using artificial dielectrics. The line of approach was optical. The purpose of development and the state of technique being different, some of the conclusions reached were different from the parallel development in this country."
"The equations of motion of ionospheric electrons in the field of plane electromagnetic waves subject to the frictional force of collision and to the force of the earth's magnetic field are developed in a form permitting graphical calculation of the wave polarization. The complex Poynting vector is then calculated in terms of the polarization, the complex refractive index, and a third function related to the forward tilt of the electric vector. Graphical integration is used to obtain curves representing the direction of energy flow for the ordinary and extraordinary modes, in a parabolic distribution of ionization for fixed values of geomagnetic latitude, collision frequency, and wave frequency for the case of vertical wave propagation. When collision is taken into account, the deflection has a small westward component for both ordinary and extraordinary modes. At zero collision frequency the deflections are in the vertical plane of the earth's field; the ordinary mode bending towards the poles and the extraordinary mode towards the equator. The normal ionization gradient with latitude, together with diurnal expansion and contraction of the ionized region, can explain the diurnal variation in the fz-f0critical frequency difference as due to the diurnal variation in the total path deflection."
"An analysis of the radiation from a system of coplanar concentric circular current sheets, in which the current elements are perpendicular to the plane of the circles, is carried out. The current elements are of negligible length, and are continuous along the periphery of the circles. The formation of beams in the horizontal plane, and also in the vertical plane, are examined. The solution of the three-dimensional field is given in two forms: one as a Fourier series, and the other as a Bessel-Fourier series. The solutions are adapted to show how a prescribed horizontal pattern may be synthesized. In one method the pattern is represented as a Fourier series, in the other it is represented as a Bessel-Fourier series. It is also shown that by combining these two types of solution, it is possible to synthesize simultaneously a pattern in both the vertical and horizontal planes."
"The paper deals with thin piezoelectric plates made from the isometric crystals, sodium chlorate and sodium bromate, and the tetragonal crystals, potassium dihydrogen phosphate and ammonium dihydrogen phosphate. Bevelling of crystals is first described, briefly, as a method used for preparing single response crystal units. In the following section the paper discusses the possibilities of getting thickness controlled resonances. The two cuts (zxw) 45° and (zxtw) 45°/54° 44′ (notation according to the 1949 Standards of The Institute of Radio Engineers) give the strongest deformations. The measured frequency constants of numerous round bevelled blanks and their temperature coefficients agree in most cases with the values obtained from calculations based on data from other authors. The resistance, inductance, and quality factor of the equivalent electric circuits are measured. The concordance with calculated values is fairly good if the ratio crystal area/(electrode area) is introduced into the formulas. The NaBrO3thickness modes have about the same quality factor as that of quartz, the quality factor of NH4H2PO4is about one order of magnitude smaller."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"Lists the chairmen of the various Professional groups along with their contact information."
"Superseded. IEEE Recommended Practice for Minimization of Interference from Radio-Frequency Heating Equipment, describes procedures that may be applied in the design and construction of radio-frequency heating equipment used for heating in industrial and other purposes, excluding applications in the field of telecommunication and information technology. These procedures are intended to reduce the amount of radio-frequency energy leaks, which can interfere with other equipment and broadcast services; they may also be used as remedial measures when harmful interference occurs."
"VOLUME 69, 1950, PART I."
"Copyright 1950 By The American Institute Of Electrical Engineers."
"The 1950 TRANSACTIONS (volume 69) of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers will be published in two parts. Part I contains technical program papers and related discussions presented at the Winter General Meeting, New York, NY., January 30-February 3, 1950. Part II of the 195( volume will contain approved papers and related discussions presented at the following meetings: North Eastern District Meeting, Providence, R. I., April 26-28, 1950; Great Lakes District Meeting, Jackson, Mich., MIay 11-12, 1950; Summer and Pacific General Meeting, Pasadena, Calif., June 12-16, 1950; Middle Eastern District M%Ieeting, Baltimore, MId., October 3-5, 1950; Fall General Meeting, Oklahoma City, Okla., October 23-27, 1950. Full correlation of all material in this volume lhas been accomplished by means of the multientry index beginning on page 664. Reference to any of the several subject entries for a technical paper will lead directly to the paper and to any published discussion on that paper. The original number assigned each paper by the Technical Program Committee is given in the author index. Statements and opinions given in papers and discussions published in TRANSACTIONS are the expressions of contributors for which the American Institute of Electrical Engineers assumes no responsibility. Part II of Volume 69 is expected to be available for distribution early in 1951."
"a complete and accurate analysis is provided for the solution of single-phase induction motor performance characteristics based on a paper by F.W. Suhr [\"SYMMETRICAL COMPONENTS AS APPLIED TO THE SINGLE PHASE INDUCTION MOTOR,\" Electrical Engineering (AlEE Transactions), volume 64, September 1945, pages 651-66]."
"The approved electric fence is a safe, effective, and economical aid to modern farming. Homemade electric fence controllers are responsible for the continuing electrocution of both human beings and . animals. The use of such controllers should be prohibited by law. The interests of public safety demand that specific enforceable legislation covering electric fence controllers be enacted in each of the various states of this country. Need exists for uniformity in the various electric fence safety codes. With the exception of the continuous type of electric fence, it is doubtful if the differences in the present codes can be justified on the basis of safety. Although compromise in output limitations is necessary, it is essential that the maximum allowable output not be reduced materially, as any substantial reduction in effectiveness might jeopardize the value of electric fencing."
"In October 1947, F. A. Lane and B. W. Wyman1 described before the Institute the switchgear equipment developed for the Tidd High-Voltage Test Line. This equipment included a low oil content impulse-type circuit breaker rated 10,000,000 kva at 360 kv. The unit described at that time was part of an over-all development program of higher capacity switchgear equipments which will be needed to control and protect properly the rapidly expanding power systems of this country. This paper describes the development of the high-capacity impulse-type circuit breaker to be used in these equipments, both at existing transmission voltages and at the higher transmission voltages projected for the future. In addition, it presents substantiating laboratory and field test data indicating the ample margin of safety possessed by this circuit breaker to meet any requirements the future might dictate."
"Traditional methods of bandwidth measurement are based on somewhat arbitrary specifications, for example', the frequency difference between the high and low frequencies at which the single-tone response provides half the power corresponding to the frequency of maximum response. Other definitions of bandwidth or cut-off frequency are used in special cases whenever they seem appropriate. The lack of standardization in this matter creates confusion which is only now being resolved by the concept of equivalent bandwidth. A review of this concept is given to facilitate discussion of the measuring instruments described."
"An all-electronic device for removing distortion from start-stop teletypewriter signals is described. The circuit utilizes a sine wave oscillator for timing and binary counters for synchronization. It provides low output distortion, high tolerance to input distortion, hit-reduction, transmission of steady-space break signals, and regeneration of one element-length of stop time. It features quick change of speed and code, use of office battery power, and reduction of routine maintenance to one adjustment. Over a year's experience has been obtained with about 100 of these units."
"A relaying system is described herein providing complete phase and ground distance ·relaying protection for transmission lines, which features a reduction in the necessary equipment over the 6 directional-reactance-distance relay system usually applied where three relays are connected to protect against 3phase, phase-to-phase, and double-phaseto- ground faults, and three relays are connected to protect against single-phase-toground faults. The reduction in equipment is achieved by causing the directional element of the ground-reactance relay to perform the double duty of detecting faults of a phase nature as well as faults of a ground nature. This new system also offers the advantage of providing complete phase and ground protection without the use of objectionable switching arrangements heretofore used to select the faulted-phase current or potential. The combined system is effected by adding to the basic directional-reactancedistance relay for ground fault protection a reactance relay which operates with the directional-fault-detecting element of the ground relay to provide the phase-fault protection."
"In the past few years, much emphasis has been put on audible noise of power transformers. Control of noise levels of such transformers without seriously affecting other important characteristics of the transformers is an important challenge to manufacturers. Sources of audible noise in power transformers, its attenuation and transmission, and the effect on designs are considered. Some characteristics of such noise are presented and methods of reducing noise levels are discussed. Power transformer noise problems confronting the manufacturer of such apparatus are discussed in relation to the over-all transformer design."
"The steel mill power systems to be discussed in this paper may be as small as about 15,000 kw installed capacity and may approach or even exceed a capacity of 200,000 kw. If the steel mill has blast furnaces and coke ovens with waste fuel available, part of this capacity will be from turbine generators. Where possible there will be a tie to the electrical utility; and in many mills all of the electric power is provided by the electrical utility. The utilization voltages for the steel mill usually will include 440 volts, 2,300 volts, and 6,600 or 13,200 volts for the large motors or furnaces. Generation will usually be at 6,900 or 13,800 volts, although some older 2,300-volt machines are still in service. Formerly there was only limited use of voltages above 6,900 but there is an increasing need for higher transmission voltages. These include 22, 33, and 69 kv."
"A new 2-channel carrier telegraph system for short submarine telegraph cables is described. Developed specifically for the Western Union Key West-Havana cables, about 100 nautical miles in length and with attenuations up to 80 decibels at 1,000 cycles per second, it utilizes standard land-line frequency-modulation channel terminal equipment and provides excellent 50-cycle telegraph transmission on both channels without appreciably degrading the physical circuits. Depending upon the facilities available the carrier may be operated either as a metallic or a ground-return circuit."
"The root locus method determines all of the roots of the differential equation of a control system by a graphical plot which readily permits synthesis for desired transient response or frequency response. The base points for this plot On the complex plane are the zeros and poles of the open loop transfer function, which are readily available. The locus of roots is a plot of the values of s which make this transfer function equal to - 1 as loop gain is increased from zero to infinity. The plot can be established in approximate form by inspection and the significant parts of the locus calculated accurately and quickly by use of a simple device. For multiple loop systems, one solves the innermost loop first, which then permits the next loop to be solved by another root locus plot. The resultant plot gives a complete picture of the system, which is particularly valuable for unusual systems or those which have wide variations in parameters."
"The paper describes some of the special design features for steel-tank oil circuit breakers rated 5,000,000 kva at 138 kv, 161 kv, and 230 kv, and rated 7,500,000 or 10,000,000 kva at 230 kv. The method of verifying these interrupting capacities both in the manufacturers' high-power laboratory and by field tests on a customer's property is outlined, with special consideration given to the problems of switching line-charging currents and of interrupting high power repeatedly, under both standard duty and rapid reclosing duty cycles."
"The tape-to-page translator is a device employed in a reperforator switching telegraph system to permit the delivery of telegrams, handled throughout the system as ``tape'' printer messages, to patrons' offices equipped with page teleprinters. This paper describes the means employed for inserting the additional characters and the necessary conversions in the transmission of a message to produce the traditional format of the copy received on a page teleprinter."
"There appears to exist in the oil industry a definite use for a computing machine which may be employed to shorten the multi-component fractionation plate-to-plate calculations. A machine believed to be of satisfactory accuracy and reliability has been designed and is in operation. It is estimated that it reduces the computing man hours to about ten per cent of that of the former procedures. The machine can be employed not only on the design of new equipment, but also on the study of possible design and feed variations which might be made in existing fractionation columns."
"Present-day large interconnected power systems have many problems in common with regard to economical line loading, optimum placement of generating capacity, and satisfactory solution of protective relaying and line-reclosing requirements to provide the best over-all system performance. This paper suggests some of the engineering considerations which necessarily must be given incident to the planning and specification of the protective relaying and high-speed reclosing to be applied to transmission lines of considerable length which may serve as stabilizing ties between generating stations of an extensive system. For purposes of discussion, a hypothetical transmission system is analyzed. Companion papers1,2 deal with the problems in the selection of relaying of the short and medium-length transmission lines of the same typical system."
"The harmonic index is the decibel difference between the noise level obtained with the flat weighting and the noise level obtained with the 40-decibel weighting. It is a qualitative measure of the harmonic content of the noise measured at a given point. The harmonic index was introduced several years ago,1 but it has not realized the consideration which it merits. It is the purpose of this paper to demonstrate the value of the harmonic index when used in conjunction with the flat weighting measurements as a simple approach to the problem of evaluating the complex structures of the transformer."
"Equations for the transient current of both the armature and field of a d-c shunt-wound machine are developed. The equations are derived from the theorem of constant flux linkages and in terms of the mutual inductance between the armature and shunt field. Methods for measuring this mutual inductance as well as other constants of the machine are developed. It is believed that the analysis can be extended to include almost any type of d-c dynamo, including the amplidyne. The results obtained from the theoretical analysis are in agreement with experimental data."
"A method is given for calculating the surface heat-transfer coefficients for hydrogen-cooled roating electric machinery from the values of these coefficients as determined from tests in air. The influence of hydrogen purity and of the velocity exponent on the ratio of heat transfer in hydrogen to heat transfer in air is evaluated; also, for gas flowing in ducts, the effect of the type of flow on this ratio is discussed. A method is also given for calculating the heat-transfer coefficients for ventilating ducts, in either air or hydrogen, on an inlet temperature basis, as an aid to simplifying the calculation of the surface temperature rise."
"This paper presents a study, based on calculations and tests, of the heating characteristics of hydrogen-cooled generators at elevated gas pressures, and discusses various criteria for determining the capability of generators at elevated pressures. It is shown that the assumption of constant temperature rise of the windings above cold gas temperature, as a basis for limiting the output at elevated hydrogen pressures (particularly the rise of the armature winding by embedded detector) is misleading, and that a more realistic basis of rating is the assumption of constant total temperature of the winding copper, for constant temperature of ingoing cooling water at different loads and hydrogen pressures."
"From a consideration of the problems of the control of a d-c motor supplied from a phase controlled ignitron rectifier we have tried to show: 1. The closed loop or feed-back system is highly desirable. 2. Such a system requires the use of some form of amplifier between the reference and comparison circuit and the ignitron phase shift system. 3. Three different systems involving the use of amplidynes, electronic amplifiers, and amplistats have been successfully built to serve this function. 4. The choice of the best method for a particular application depends upon the particular requirements of that application."
"This paper has endeavored to show a functional description of an adjustable voltage rectifier equipment which delivers moderate power and is suitable for the control of one or more d-c motors. These rectifiers incorporate high gain amplifier and excitation circuits which have a high degree of reliability and freedom from frequent maintenance. A well-regulated output voltage is obtained by the use of the Amplistat circuit. The output voltage may be continuously adjusted in response to several system conditions as required. The assembly is made compact and economical by full utilization of the cubicle space. These features make possible a packaged, unit type of rectifier equipment which meets all the service requirements of industrial applications requiring regulated variable voltage source."
"At least 50 years have passed since rotary web printing presses reached, essentially, their present form. As innumerable refinements gradually improved the quality of the product and increased speed of the presses, corresponding advances were made in electric motor drives. Press drives, as a result, are highly refined, specialized equipments designed to do a definite job. Application problems will be discussed, together with a comparison between conventional and electronic solutions."
"This paper develops simple formulas for spring and damping constants of synchronous machines. These formulas include the effects of induced currents in the damper winding and field. An approximation to the effect of primary resistance in producing a negative damping torque is given. An equivalent circuit is given which can represent accurately the mechanical system of several engine-driven generators or compressors operating in parallel. It is concluded that the conventional representation of synchronizing power as full-load power over full-load angle is sufficiently accurate for most cases, but that it is well to have a more accurate method for special cases."
"This work deals with the specific problems of determining sizes of trunk groups and quantities of various components of dial central office equipment by the methods currently used in the Bell System. Examplesare given, with illustrative tables. Enough of the probability theory underlying the tables is given to bring out the assumptions made to fit or approximate the various service conditions. Among the basic formulas used are: the binomial, Poisson, Erlang B and C, and Pollaczek-Crommelin. Their application to the principal types of facilities capacity tables in the Bell System is discussed in this paper."
"An electronic computer for the simulation of autopilot servomechanisms is being developed as a small-scale flexible analog computer capable of reproducing electrically the dynamic behavior of systems in which certain of the dependent variables or their derivatives may be limited in magnitude but which otherwise can be characterized by linear differential equations having constant coefficients. Specifically, the simulator is being designed to represent on a one-to-one time scale several types of closed-cycle systems or servomechanisms which are linear except for possible limitations of such quantities as motor torque, output velocity, and output displacement."
"Two criteria of satisfactory systems performance are the ability of the main generator to retain stability and the ability of the exciter set to recover after a disturbance. Normal emergency throw-over times are generally between one and two seconds. This study indicates that for these throw-over times a very substantial margin in system performance exists, with the use of a special design of motor-driven exciter set with an inertia constant H of 5 and a maximum torque of about 325 per cent rated. This exciter set does not require a shorter throw-over time than any other essential station auxiliary. The high torque characteristic of the induction motor enables satisfactory system performance to be obtained with voltage at the motor terminals as low as 70 per cent of normal both on steady state and on re-energization after throw-over. With this exciter, for a 3-phase short-circuit fault at or near the generator terminals, the maximum permissible switching time closely approaches the actual critical switching times which vary between approximately 11 and 20 cycles for the conditions studied. Practical switching times are generally below ten cycles. Additional special design considerations of the exciter set as presented in reference 1 further improve performance for the short-circuit fault operation."
"Rectifier tubes have demonstrated their reliability over many years of service in industrial applications and to a limited extent on excitation systems. Thus in an effort to obtain more reliable and continuous excitation service, the decision was made to apply an electronic ignitron rectifier exciter to each of two new 37,500-kva 3,600-rpm turbogenerators in the Warren Plant of the Pennsylvania Electric Company. The power source to the exciter is a small 6-phase generator connected to the same shaft as the main generator, and is therefore free from system electrical disturbances. The first exciter was tested with a large synchronous machine in the shop which demonstrated that it was fundamentally sound in its operation. Additional tests were made after installation in the power plant and, after certain changes, both exciters have given excellent service. One has been in service for about six months, and the other for over a year. There is no other source of excitation for these two generators."
"Transfer tests were made of one auxiliary bus section in a large power station from one source to another source. The two sources, one an auxiliary generator and the other a service transformer, were not paralleled during the transfer operation. The optimum open time interval was determined and inrush currents, voltage changes, and some power measurements were made on the combined bus load and on several individual motors. Successful transfers were made at time intervals up to about 150 cycles. The motors, the auxiliary generator, and the station boilers operated satisfactorily for all tests."
"All recent circuit breaker developments in the higher voltage transmission field have included such features as faster fault clearing, faster reclosing after faults, reduced oil requirements, and reduced maintenance. This paper describes the development of an improved line of oil-blast circuit breakers incorporating these features at 69 kv. The new circuit breakers as compared with superseded designs are smaller, require less oil, have improved oil-blast interrupters, use sealed bushings without gaskets, have a simplified top frame and linkage design, and use air operators. Complete laboratory tests have been made to check the electrical and mechanical characterstics of these new circuit breakers. These tests then were supplemented by actual field tests at 66-kv interrupting staged short circuits over a wide range of currents as well as switching the capacitance current of long unloaded 66-kv lines."
"The development of this new line of orthomagnetic bushing-type current transformers makes it possible to obtain the higher classes of metering accuracy, in the lower range of line current ratings, in high-voltage systems. At the same time it is possible to retain the advantage of minimum space, easy installation, dependable operation, and much of the economy of the usual bushing-type current transformer. The multiratio feature incorporated in the design of these transformers will materially facilitate their application on circuits where load conditions may change."
"The great simplicity, reliability, and low cost of bushing-type current transformer has led inventors to devise various schemes to improve its accuracy to metering standards. This paper reviews these schemes, culminating in the orthomagnetic device described in detail in a paper by J. W. Farr.160"
"Analytical expressions are developed for the envelope of the transient output current of a magnetic amplifier when the control voltage is varied. The magnetization curve of the core material is expressed in a convenient analytical form and the differential equations of the system are integrated under certain simplifying assumptions. The analysis applies to transients lasting a few cycles of the supply frequency, or longer; and experimental checks show good agreement within the range of transients specified above. The results are given in the form of dimensionless curves expressing the average flux density, average magnetizing intensity, and output currents as functions of time. Thus the influence of the core material and of factors of design upon the transient response of the amplifier are determined."
"This paper is concerned with the control equipment of the 4,500-horsepower Alco-GE gas-turbine electric locomotive. It includes a description of the control apparatus and functions, and outlines problems encountered in its application. Control systems relative to this new type of prime mover are dealt with in particular."
"A new type of prime mover, in the form of a gas-turbine power plant, recently has been successfully applied in a locomotive. The problems encountered and the electric equipment employed are, in many respects, similar to those of diesel-electric locomotives. This presentation deals primarily with those features, as regards this locomotive application, that it is felt are sufficiently unique to be of general interest."
"A measuring system has been developed which will automatically measure and record in numerals at predetermined intervals items which can be measured electrically. The readings may be telemetered over a single channel for any distance. The paper describes briefly, with the aid of block diagrams, the process by which the instrument measures, telemeters, and prints the readings on a ``log sheet.''"
"The paper outlinies the direct-analog approach used on the Anacom and describes the sigma amplifier which combines adding, integrating, delay, and other operations into a single computer amplifier and results in an improved computing technique. Examples include a speed-regulating system, and systems of simultaneous differential equations such as the aerodynamic equations of flight of an airplane. An adjustable nonlinear resistor and other functional devices are described, together with their use in analogs of fluid flow, saturating iron cores, magnetic amplifiers, and hysteresis. An analog for corona is given."
"A description of the experiences leading to the adoption of the central control system in the Warren, pa. plant of the Pennsylvania Electric Company, the design features incorporated in this room; the operating experiences with this type of control to date; the basic changes which have been indicated by actual operation; and the costs involved in this type of control."
"This paper presents an analysis of the steady-state and transient characteristics of the magnetic amplifier without feedback, with external feedback, and with one commonly-used type of self-feedback. Comparisons with experimental data indicate that the accuracy of the analysis is well within the limits that may be expected for nonlinear circuits."
"A frequency control system utilizing a magnetic amplifier is described. The frequency control is applied to a dynamotor where the accuracy must be ±0.1 per cent over a range of temperature, input voltage, and load. A qualitative description of the system is given, along with performance data gathered from tests on a prototype model."
"A satisfactory test technique has been developed for studying the rates of dielectric recovery of large air gaps and other types of power-system insulation. This permits the accurate control of the fault conditions so that all practical types of fault currents can be studied. These are: (1) very high magnitude short-duration surges typical of lightning currents; (2) currents of power-system frequencies; and (3) intermediate duration currents such as those which might result from high-frequency current zeros produced by natural system oscillations. Results are presented showing the rate of dielectric recovery of 3-, 6-, and 11-inch standard rod gaps for power frequency fault currents up to 700 amperes. Electrode cooling effects were found important at 3-inch gap spacings but not at six inches or above. The 11-inch gap data are proportionately higher than the 6-inch data indicating that the results can be extrapolated. The data show that for arcs of a few cycles actual duration has little effect on rate of recovery. A range of current magnitudes from 50 to 700 amperes causes only about a 2-to-1 variation in rate of recovery. For the normal ratios of transmission-line insulation level to operating voltage (about four to one) minimum delay times of from 0.025 second for 100-ampere faults to 0.05 second for 700 ampere faults are required before the recovery voltage reaches the magnitude of the normal applied voltage. Time intervals of 0.05 to 0."
"The design of an accurate selsyn generator or control transformer may be accomplished by considering equations 47 and 48 or 55 respectively. The slot openings only increase or decrease certain errors given by these formulas. If according to these formulas a certain harmonic error is small or zero, the slot openings also cause a small or zero additional error. Exception of this rule has to be made only in the case that the errors caused by two different harmonic fields cancel each other. All errors of order (6n-3) can be avoided by making the rotor or stator winding insensitive to even harmonics. Therefore the winding also has to be symmetric to a line vertical to its axis. This is only possible if the punching contains an even number of slots. Curve a in Figure 10 shows a control transformer error curve. It corresponds to a control transformer with a 2-slot round rotor and a 15-slot stator winding, as shown in Figure 4. The 6th-harmonic error is caused by a 7th-harmonic flux and should reach, according to equation 55, an approximate maximum of 0.0013 radian, or 4.5 minutes. The actual 6th-harmonic error is 3.7 minutes. Curve ``b'' shows the error curve of a generator with a 15-slot stator winding and a salient pole rotor of 90-degree pole arc. The 6th-harmonic error has been eliminated by using a stator as before but coils of different number of turns. Thus it was possible to obtain a 7th harmonic reduction factor equal to zero."
"Provides both a Subject and Author Index."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Copyright 1950 By The American Institute Of Electrical Engineers."
"Representation has been made of synchronous machines and power systems by α-, ß-, and 0-networks which are basic for the analysis of various types of short circuits. New expressions for the characteristic synchronous machine reactances in α-, ß-, 0-components, or Clarke components, are derived. It is found that these characteristic reactances are constant so that the use of Clarke component networks does not compare unfavorably with other methods of short-circuit analysis."
"Recent advancements in highly efficient power machinery have created demands for super accurate speed measurements. Developments in magnetic recording and high-speed electronic counters have made extremely accurate speed measurements possible. A tachometer, accurate to better than ± 0.03 per cent, is described in this paper."
"In contrast with the conventional Schering bridge, the network described in this paper is direct reading for both dissipation factor and capacitance, has a fixed guard adjustment, and hence simplified operation. A unique method of phase-angle compensation employs adjustment of the effective phase angle of the standard capacitor. This compensation may be either positive or negative as required. Design is simplified since compensation for stray wiring capacitances is easily accomplished. Simplified operation and elimination of all calculations permit substantial reductions in unit testing time and operation by nontechnical personnel without sacrifice of accuracy."
"It has shown in this paper that: 1. The effective oil temperature and the thermal time constant of each winding, as well as the winding temperature at instant of shutdown, can be determined from the resistance-time data taken immediately after the shutdown of a heat run on a transformer. 2. The average oil temperature as determined in accordance with the Test Code checks, within limits of test accuracy, the effective oil temperature determined by the resistance-time data methods described in this paper. 3. The effective oil temperature for each individual winding may not necessarily be the same value. This indicates that such factors as size of ventilation ducts, relative position of the windings to each other and to the core, and the division of loss in the transformner, may affect the temperature of the oil which effectively cools each individual winding."
"The object of this analysis is to shed light onto the mechanics of magnetic-amplifier operation and to derive simple, and yet reasonably accurate, formulas. The analysis deals with the effects of various parameters, such as voltage, frequency, load resistance, and feedback. The various mathematical expressions are condensed into a nondimensional, normalized master graph which completely describes the steady-state operation of the magnetic amplifier under consideration. Speed of response and its relation to the gain are also investigated. The formulas and conclusions are verified by test data."
"In the past few years some lack of confidence has existed when the engineer is confronted with the task of specifying the main power transformer at generating stations. The proper choice of rating-cooling method, kilovolt-ampere size, voltage, insulation, and so forth-requires an approach which can be rationalized as good engineering. This necessitates not only an economic choice but one based on adequacy of electrical and mechanical requirements. It is the purpose of this paper to present an approach whereby the factors that affect the selection of main power transformers at generating stations may be evaluated."
"This paper discusses briefly the philosophy underlying power transformer practices on the American Gas and Electric Company system. It includes power transformers used in generating, transmission, and distribution stations. It does not include transformers generally used on distribution lines to serve residential customers, or special purpose transformers not directly associated with the transmission and distribution of power. The size and extent of the interconnected electric system on which the transformers are used are described, and the requirements of such a system discussed. Considerations entering into the selection of transformers, their general design requirements, operation, and maintenance, including principles of loading, flexibility of use, and spare transformer practices, are amplified in considerable detail. Over-all economics are emphasized. The power transformer is a most important piece of apparatus in modern electric power systems, being second only to the generator. It makes possible the widespread use of power. In larger sizes it is the largest, heaviest, and most costly piece of electric equipment, except for the generator. In total rated capacity it far outranks all other elements; hence it is worthy of the utmost attention in our search for construction and operating economies. Fortunately, the present-day power transformer is a most dependable piece of electric equipment. It has become so reliable that interruptions to service because of transformer failure are rare. Notwithstanding, however, there is great need for less costly transformers that are still more reliable and require less maintenance. These are the goals we seek."
"1. Experience with the motor-driven exciter at the Grand Coulee Power Plant indicates that automatic transfer of power sources to the motor can be successfully done under full load by removing the motor from a faulty power source and reconnecting it to another power source. 2. However, experience also indicates that the best protection is to provide sufficient power sources so that the loss of one source will not cause the loss of excitation. 3. Additional pilot-exciter voltage-regulation equipment has reduced peak voltages on the generators approximately 1.5 kv on a 13.8-kv base with the possibility of reducing this still further by the addition of more resistance in the high-speed lowering relay circuit in the main exciter field."
"This paper reports corona loss measurements made under desert conditions on 1.25-inch and 1.4-inch type-HH copper conductor and 1.4-inch conductor. The variations from wattmeter equipment are discussed. Conditions and losses measured indicate that factors, yet unknown, exist in some desert areas that cause corona loss values to occur at considerably lower voltages than would have been anticipated from previous tests in coastal climates. The tests indicate the necessity for use of added liberality in selecting conductor diameter or confirmation by extended field tests of the existence or absence of the phenomena described. The 1.4-inch type-HH conductor showed adequate liberality for desert operation. The 1.4-inch stranded cable, though adequate in coastal or under normal climatic conditions, showed losses which might prove uneconomical under conditions encountered in the desert areas. The 1.25-type-HH cable appeared definitely inadequate for use in desert areas."
"The Electric Building Substation whose design and installation has been outlined is operating very satisfactorily. Transformer operating temperatures are very low, and voltage regulation throughout the area served is well within allowable limits. The company was extremely fortunate in being able to take advantage of the incinerator flue to exhaust the heated air from the transformer vault, as this is always one of the major difficulties to be overcome on any large vault installation."
"The field test project for studying corona, radio influence, and other technical features of electric power transmission in the extra-high-voltage range now has been in progress on The Ohio Power Company system of the American Gas and Electric Company at Brilliant, Ohio, for over two years. This paper is a progress report of this activity. It presents problems that are unique in the study of corona, particularly the effects of the conductor surface and weather upon the corona loss. It emphasizes the importance of foul weather in determining the average loss for use in evaluating the economic aspects of corona loss. Extensive tests also have been made of the effects of corona upon radio communication services. Radio influence is probably the factor litmiting the choice of a satisfactory conductor for extra-high voltages."
"development of a basic power-system plan adequate for the future load requirements and capable of accomplishment through step-by-step construction processes. The segregation of the load requirements as to load classes enables the drawing of probable system load curves, the determination of kilowatt-hour requirements, and estimates of possible revenues. Furthermore, the unit area survey provides data for detailed study of the requirements of the receiving station, distributing station, and local feeder load areas."
"A general analysis of basic types of magnetic amplifiers without and with feedback is presented in dimensionless form. The use of a simplified approximation of the normal magnetization curve with a hyperbolic sine function permits a comparatively simple treatment of a most comprehensive nature on a purely analytical basis. General dimensionless characteristics are obtained which apply, without need for further calculations, to any kind of design specifications and to any core material of not too abruptly varying incremental permeability. Thus the influence of factors of design and materials on the performance is made evident. This approach also yields a practical method of accounting for the simultaneous conduction of the feedback rectifiers (commutation) in terms of a correction factor which is applied to the feedback ratio. Numerical values of this correction factor are calculated for some significant instances."
"Tests on indicating instruments excited with sinusoidal signals at the servomechanism frequencies show that under certain conditions they are the same useful and time-saving tools as when used at the power frequencies. These conditions are determined by the motional characteristics of the instrument and the desired accuracy. This paper describes the performance of conventional indicating instruments at these low frequencies, discusses what can be done to these instruments to make them more suitable for this service, and gives one example of what can be expected when an indicating instrument is designed expressly for servo system use."
"The power ignitron has been successfully applied in pulse service. This service imposes new operating conditions and has required the development of new excitation circuits."
"The complex nature of the material, the resulting difficulty in establishing significant tests for evaluation in reasonable time, and the varying conditions of use, have combined to make the study of oils used for the insulation and cooling of transformers a painfully slow process. It is the purpose of this paper to review some of the very extensive efforts made in this study and to draw at least tentative conclusions as to the present status and future possibilities of one of the most important materials in the design, manufacture, and operation of transformers."
"Twenty-four years have elapsed since the first large-scale machine switching tandem system was designed and installed for service in Los Angeles. As an intermediate switching center, the tandem office enabled operators to use the dial method of operation for establishing interexchange telephone connections over the associated trunking network. During the intervening Years, it has facilitated the rapid handling of telephone calls between the various communities in and around the city. Step-by-step tandem equipment was employed and as the volume of calls grew, the trunk capacity was increased by installing additional switching equipment. In 1946 it became evident that the abnormal rate of growth required additions substantially beyond the practical size limit of the step-by-step tandem unit. To solve the resulting problem, it became necessary to reorganize the tandem trunking system and select a multiunit tandem switching plan. It also provided an opportunity to consider the application of the more recently developed crossbar tandem switching system. This paper reviews the factors affecting the general problem of interexchange trunking which have led to the development of the present tandem network in the Los Angeles elements of a system which now employs a total of five tandem switching units, three of which are crossbar tandem offices."
"The recently introduced amplidyne-controlled electric log carriage drive is rapidly becoming established in the lumber industry. This paper describes this new drive, explaining those features that make it a real asset to the lumber-mill owner."
"The sound level resulting from the operation of a transformer is an exceedingly complex function of the materials, electrical and mechanical design, construction, service and placement of the unit. Some considerations bearing on the origin, transmission, and resulting aural response to such sounds are presented. Means of reducing the sound level and the economic effects of such reduction are mentioned. The presently recognized rules covering test equipment, test methods, and acceptable levels are briefly discussed."
"The problem of achieving quiet installations of transformers at substations is one that requires the efforts of both the equipment designer and the substation designer for successful solution. This paper describes remedial and perventive measures that have been taken by The Detroit Edison Company to solve the noise problem in substations. The most effective method that was tried was to enclose the transformers on four sides with a 12-inch masonry wall, this effecting a sound reduction of about 24 decibels. Other measures, which were less effective acoustically, also are described and data given."
"The predominating sensation produced by gradually increasing direct current is warmth in the palm of the hand or wrist. Sensations caused by alternating currents below 10,000 cycles are characterized by a tingling or pricking sensation which is localized in the area adjacent to the point of contact, and at very low frequencies the muscles tend to follow the alternations of the current waveform. For frequencies between 10,000 and 100,000 cycles, the sensations are similar to those at the power frequencies, but they are less intense, and perception occurs over larger areas around the point of contact. An abrupt change in the response occurs between 100,000 and 200,000 cycles when the sensation becomes one of internal heating, and heating is believed to be the only sensation produced by currents in excess of 200,000 cycles. The current required for perception increases with increasing frequency, and between about 1,000 and 100,000 cycles the current is nearly proportional to frequency. Approximately 150 men were used in these investigations and it is believed that a sufficent number were used to permit valid statistical predictions to be made, not only for the particular group tested, but also for a normal cross section of the adult male population of the country."
"In recent years a number of underground hydroelectric power stations have been built, mostly in Europe, and many others are under construction. While the last war has undoubtedly had some influence in making substantial protection of generating facilities seem desirable, it is pointed out that underground stations have been built long before the war, and that under certain circumstances there may be valid technical and economical reasons for the choice of this type of construction. Advantages that result from underground locations are discussed, and special emphasis is given to the points which need attention in the design, such as access and safety features, insulation, and ventilation. Several representative underground plants are described in some detail."
"In attempting to use standard percentage differential relays for transformer protection in the most efficient manner for a wide variety of transformer connections and types, several problems have arisen which have resulted in solutions not in the usual repertoire of transformer protection. The scope of this paper is limited to some general remarks on the fundamentals of transformer protection using percentage differential relays, and to a few selected applications of this type of relay which depart somewhat from the usual course of such protection. Certain occasionaland independent problems of transformer protection which are superimposed on the basic application requirements to be discussed here, such as relay operation on transient magnetizing inrush current flow, are not included within the scope of this paper."
"Thorburn Reid considered the commutation problem in rotating machines as arising from reactance in the coils being commutated by the varying brush contact resistance. This paper extends Reid's treatment to include the effects of reactance in the coils which are not being commutated, and shows that these noncommutating coils are an important factor in commutation performance. An equivalent circuit for a simplified commutator machine is developed and used as the basis for the analysis given in Appendixes I through VI. By means of this equivalent circuit, the average brush terminal voltage is seen to approach the value of the commutating reactance voltage under severe commutating conditions. Voltage pulses near the end of the commutation period are shown to be produced by a parallel influence of the noncommutating and the commutating coils. A testing device based on the equivalent circuit is described in Appendix VI, and consists of a mechanical inverter connected so as to separate the functions of the brushes in reversing current through the commutating coils, and in passing current through the noncommutating coils. When connected to the armature of a particular machine, the testing device is used to measure the commutating reactance and the brush contact resistance under simulated operating conditions. By means of this device, a correlation between brush electrical wear and severity of commutating conditions is established, which helps to confirm the basic theory."
"Equalizer connections are a necessary part of d-c machine armature windings having more than two circuits. Nearly all machines of medium and large sizes and many small machines for special purposes are in this category. These connections cause substantially equal currents to flow in the circuits of the armature winding resulting in minimum losses, minimum temperature rise, and uniform commutation at each brush arm. This paper determines the current which the connections carry when the excitation of the field poles is unbalanced. From the results, the size of the connections to meet a specified temperature rise, under given unbalanced conditions, can be determined. The paper explains the reasons for the use of equalizer connections and describes how they work."
"This paper describes the investigation which led to the correction of vibration trouble in the stator and rotor of a large single-phase frequency changer set. The method of correction is described. Measurements taken over a period of eight years show that the cause of vibration has been permanently corrected."
"This paper presents simplified formulas and curves for rapid and accurate evaluation of steady-state and transient performance of a-c generators. The calculations provide for the determination of no-load, zero-power-factor and full-load field current, short-circuit ratio, leakage reactance, synchronous reactance, transient reactance, substransient reactance, transient open-circuit and short-circuit time constants, and d-c time constant. A simple formula is proposed for rough approximation of no-load core loss. These formulas and curves apply to very small machines with semi-enclosed slots, very short air gaps and high flux densities in the iron, as well as to the larger machines covered by previous papers on this subject."
"The electric systems of many modern airplanes, particularly the generator circuits of multiengined airplanes, are being operated without adequate electrical operation. This practice is quite different from that usually followed in other electric systems. To provide the necessary protection, new aircraft circuit breakers have been developed with ratings of 300 and 600 amperes at 28 volts and 250 amperes at 120 volts. The interrupting ratings, over a range of altitude from sea level to 50,000 feet, are 12,000 amperes and 5,000 amperes for the 28-and 120-volt circuit breakers respectively. A compact and efficient interrupter makes the 120-volt rating possible. For generator circuit applications, an inverse time-delay reverse-current trip device has been designed for the circuit breakers. For other applications, nondirectional time delay and directional and nondirectional instantaneous trip devices have been designed. Trip-free mechanisms for both the manually and electrically closed circuit breakers and antipump control for the closing solenoid add to the protection provided by these circuit breakers. The operation of these circuit breakers is satisfactory under conditions of vibration, shock, sand and dust, and extremes of temperature and humidity, incident to aircraft."
"The object of this analysis is to form a clear picture of the function of the saturable reactor with resistive load, and to derive simple, and yet reasonably accurate equations. Four modes of operation are analyzed for normal and underexcitation and one mode of operation for overexcitation. The results of the mathematical derivations are condensed into graphs in normalized form. With the aid of these graphs the effect of any circuit parameter can be readily understood. A numerical example is included to demonstrate the usefulness of the normalized graphs for the quick calculation of the saturable reactor."
"The performance of the half-wave circuit under the conditions of high external control-circuit impedance and no rectifier leakage is taken as the basis for the steady-state analysis of the self-saturating magnetic amplifiers. Transfer curves for the basic circuit are determined by a combination of idealized and no-load methods, each applied in the appropriate region of operation, and the results extended to the full-wave and doubler circuits. Rectifier leakage and control-circuit impedance effects are computed for each type of circuit. Transfer curves for all three circuits under practical operating conditions are obtained by correcting the basic curves for these effects. Satisfactory results are obtained on test amplifiers containing orthonik and hypersil cores."
"The system consisting of a single generator and a carbon pile voltage regulator is a closed-loop regulating system of the proportional type. As such, its stability and dynamic characteristics can be analyzed by the standard theory of servomechanisms. It is, however, necessary to define the variable quantities very carefully as they are not easily recognizable or measurable. For this system it is convenient to utilize the concept of an error transfer function (defined in this paper) rather than to use the system transfer function common in servomechanism literature. When this is done the criteria for frequency spectrum analysis are altered somewhat, as discussed before. The purpose of the foregoing analysis has been to simplify the problem of improving an existing regulator-generator system. A complete loop transfer function can be written in terms of the regulator and generator parameters. From this it can be seen by inspection whether a given system will be stable. For stable systems the effect of changing parameters can easily be determined by examining equations 2, 10, 21, and 22. It is clear that the regulator characteristics alone do not determine the stability of the system. The generator and regulator characteristics must be considered together instead of separately. When the same regulator is used with two different generators, one system may be stable while the other is not. This can be due to the difference of the generator characteristics alone."
"The increased demand for variable-frequency a-c generating systems on present-day aircraft calls for the development of adequate generators and their controls in order that the advantages of these systems may be fully realized. The requirements are good voltage regulation, exciter stability over the required speed range, and general reliability in operation under the various environmental conditions experienced in military aircraft service. Several such generators and their controls have been developed and tested."
"A method of preliminary design of a 3-phase core transformer is offered, giving lowest priced transformer conforming to performance requirements of core loss, copper loss, per cent impedance and no-load current. A flat minimum of the resulting price function allows further refinements of the design. The only empirical values used in the procedure are the insulation clearances and coil thicknesses given by Figure 2. Technological improvements are introduced in the design by corresponding corrections of the charts of Figure 2."
"This paper presents an analysis and characteristics of a 2-phase induction motor system which may be used as an a-c integral controller in servomechanism designs or as an a-c integrator. The control phase winding of the motor is excited by a nonlinear amplifier in such a manner that the rotor acceleration is nearly proportional to the input voltage, and the output voltage, derived from the output of an a-c tachometer driven by the motor, is nearly proportional to the time integral of the input voltage. The inherent range and accuracy of the motor-tachometer combination as an integrator are substantially increased by the use of the nonlinear amplifier which line-arizes the speed-torque characteristics of the 2-phase induction motor."
"For many years power and distribution transformer cores were built of hot-rolled laminations assembled into a core structure. When cold-rolled, oriented strip steel was introduced into transformers, new types of distribution transformer cores were developed. These cores were of the wound type and utilized the magnetic properties of oriented steel very efficiently. Recently, a new type of single-phase power transformer core using oriented steel has been developed and put into production. A description of the design, manufacture, and characteristics of this new core is given. Power transformers with this type of core built by the General Electric Company are designated Spirakore transformers."
"The centralization of boiler, turbine, generator, and auxiliary electrical control functions has had considerable attention during the past decade in plans and designs of new steam-electric generating plants. The result accomplished is basically a grouping of the several conventional control boards, formerly placed at scattered locations, into a specific area. In the design of the new Morgan Creek Plant for the Texas Electric Service Company, a new approach to centralized control for all combustion, steam, and electrical power facilities has been taken. Of greatest importance is the opportunity afforded for one man to have a comprehensive knowledge of the entire plant performance, and for all important operating functions to be under the control of one operator. Another major advantage is that the new design resulted in approximately a 50% decrease in the control-room area and a substantially larger reduction in linear footage of the control panels. This new and compact centralized control board is of the duplex-type benchboard construction and is shown pictorially in front and rear areas. Each of the two boiler - turbine - generator sections is 7ft long. The entire control board, which includes a 4ft long transmission line control and relay section, is 18ft long. The structure is 7ft 6-in high and 5ft deep between the vertical panels. The bench section protrudes 21in beyond the face of the vertical panels."
"A large 34.5-kv system was operated ungrounded until early in 1946, at which time resonant grounding was installed, since it promised to be the most effective and most economical method of improving reliability of service. The layout of the system and a description of tests with the groundfault neutralizer installed are given. Records ords of operation indicate that the improvements gained by resonant neutral grounding are considerable and fully in line with expectations."
"This paper describes a new reclosing relay which offers several features not included in available automatic, reclosing relays. Among the features included are: reset of the relay a short interval after any successful reclosure, to eliminate needless delay in subsequent reclosures and reduce unnecessary lockouts; a simple internal means of blocking the instantaneous trip circuit after initial circuit breaker trip-out, to facilitate system sectionalizing; immediate first reclosure through an initially closed contact in the relay to reduce first-reclosure time. Operation of the relay and circuit is completely described with emphasis on the operating conditions creating a demand for and the advantages offered by the several improvements. Possible settings and adjustments are discussed which provide a wide degree of versatility in application."
"This paper describes a 48-channel single side band carrier system which provides toll quality telephone transmission bands with exceptional simplicity and dependability of equipment. Through the use of a novel frequency translation pattern, speech bands covering the range from 200 cycles to 3,500 cycles are secured at 4-kc channel separation without resort to crystal filters. In this system, improved translating modulator techniques and other advanced features reduce the number of vacum tubes to a minimum while achieving exceptionally high performance standards, stability, and ease of maintenance."
"This paper describes a stackable 1-, 2-, or 3-channel short-to-medium haul telephone carrier system, which has been developed primarily to meet the needs of the independent telephone field. Features of this type number 5 carrier system are transmitted carrier frequencies in harmonic relationship, ringdown signaling by carrier interruption, dial signaling by carrier frequency shift, excellent transmission capabilities, particularly in the second and third channels, and simple installation, testing, and maintenance procedure. Partial suppression of the transmitted carrier frequencies is available, for the occasional application in which the normally higher carrier level on the line might prove objectionable. Through particular attention to the engineering design, the significant objections to transmitted carrier have been overcome, while its greater convenience to the user has been employed to good advantage. The feasibility and desirability of this system have been amply proved by hundreds of successful installations, some of which are on difficult lines where other carrier systems previously failed."
"The calculation of the inductance of power transmission lines by the method of geometric mean distances is discussed in most transmission line textbooks. The assumption is usually made therein that the single-phase case for which the return currents are established uniformly equal to -I/n in the return n conductors may be expanded automatically to encompass also the transposed 3-phase case even though the return currents of the other two phases obviously do not satisfy the -I/n condition. This paper demonstrates with mathematical rigour that the inductance per phase can be calculated by the geometric-mean-distance method, and further, it shows the necessary and sufficient conditions for the system of transpositions that must be satisfied for the general 3-phase case. For special 3-phase systems, possessing symmetry among certain spacing distances some of these transpositions, however, may then be unnecessary."
"The paper points out that lightning surges contain an infinite band of frequency components and for this reason, the behavior of a system to surges depends on its impedance characteristics over a wide range of frequencies. A capacitive-inductive suppression device is suggested and design details and test results given. This device is most effective for short-duration steep-sided surges. At present, it seems practicable for lower voltage circuits but if cheaper capacitors can be constructed, it also could be used for higher voltages."
"The Goerges phenomenon is the operation of a 3-phase wound-rotor induction motor at half of synchronous speed, and it is obtained by unbalancing the rotor circuit. If the motor is started with one rotor phase opened or with rotor impedances greatly unbalanced, it will accelerate to half speed and operate stably as a motor or generator. Several investigators have made tests and analyses to find the characteristics of a motor operated in this way. In the present work a physical explanation and an equivalent circuit are given. Results of tests and calculations for a 5-horsepower motor are compared and found to be in good agreement. The unbalanced rotor impedances cause unbalanced rotor currents of slip frequency, and balanced stator currents of two frequencies, the fundamental and a subharmonic, the frequency of which depends on the speed. The motor may be operated stably at half or full speed. The torque at half speed is greater than at full speed, and may be almost as great as the rated torque for a balanced rotor. It may be desirable to operate an induction motor at half speed intermittently or as a temporary measure. Disadvantages of half speed operation are the low power factor, low pull-out torque, the subfrequency line currents, and motor vibrations."
"The three basic approaches to manhole design are: duplication of existing design; modification of existing design to eliminate certain known defects or inadequacies; and new design based on recently developed methods of predicting cable sheath life. This paper deals primarily with the latter, but it is well to keep in mind that existing design has been given a field test, whether formal or informal, and that the lessons learned from experience are extremely valuable. Since manholes and allied underground structures are of so many different sizes and shapes depending on the purpose which they serve, it has been necessary to limit the scope of this paper to power cable manholes and in particular, to the manholes along the route of transmission or express circuit cable lines."
"Fluid mappers can be built to simulate, and lead to the solution of a great many field situations in electrostatics, electromagnetics, eddy currents, heat conduction, and other analogous cases. Distributed sources, as well as ordinary sources, may be represented. Fluid mapper techniques are well enough developed so that many fields now can be simulated with sufficient accuracy, by applying tested routines to building and operating the mappers. But like all other devices, fluid mappers have their own special problems, troubles, and limitations. Also, they will be called upon to go beyond the limits within which the writer's work has been carried out. Further invention, research, and development of additional techniques are called for. By pointing out the problems and limitations, the paper does two things. First, those who are building fluid mappers for teaching, research, or application, are assisted in understanding the limitations and in minimizing inherent effects tending to reduce accuracy. Second, the numerous problems and needs described should invite interested workers, graduate students especially, to tackle the tasks that will lead to more and bettered techniques, a broadening of the range of work to which mappers may be applied, and an increase in the knowledge required for designing fluid mappers for particular jobs. Two phenomena occurring within certain distributed sources are described and named. It can at least be said that both are relatively unknown; and one of them may be new."
"This paper describes a new method for the operation of the hydrogen system of hydrogen-cooled generators which permits the use of untreated oil for supplying the shaft seals, thereby eliminating the need for the vacuum treating equipment formerly supplied with these generators. The new method provides for the removal of most of the air and moisture brought into the generator through the shaft seals by a system of continuous scavenging, through which the purity and relative humidity of the hydrogen in the generator are maintained at substantially the same values as are obtained with the vacuum treating system, and with a hydrogen consumption not significantly greater. Operating experience over a 4-year period with 24 generators of small and medium size, has demonstrated the reliability of the new system, and this system now is being applied quite generally to generators in all sizes except the very largest."
"Transformers like most other commodities change in style from time to time as the years pass. It is the intent of this paper to delve back 40 years into the history of the Hydro-Electric Power Commission of Ontario and, in regard to transformers, compare the mode of thinking then with that of the present time, and to follow the changes that have occurred in four decades and the governing factors that have influenced these changes. Today a transformer can be considered to be one of the most reliable pieces of equipment in operation. It has been developed partially from operating experience and partially to satisfy conditions and circumstances that presented themselves. Tappings in a transformer can be extremely hazardous and therefore should be kept to a minimum. The indoor transformer has given place to the outdoor. Water cooling has been largely superseded by self-cooling, then forced-air cooling, finally augmented with forced-oil. Single-phase transformers once used exclusively are not now preferred to 3-phase units. Capacities have been stepped up from 750-kva to 100,000-kva units. Autotransformers are used to advantage whenever they can be applied. Both manually operated off-load and automatically controlled under-load tap changing equipment has been developed. Refinements have been made to temperature indicating devices Current transformers used for relaying and control are now economically located on the bushings within the transformer tanks. Interchangeability of the various manufacturers' bushings has become a reality and is of great advantage to the operating companies."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides both a Subject and Author Index."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"TABULATION of the recent opinion poll of AIEE membership discloses that over three-fourths of those voting favor carrying on present basic Institute policies as a technical society. The vote was 7,000 in favor of proposal 1 to adhere to the technical field, versus 2,000 in favor of proposal 2 to expand in the nontechnical field with substantially increased dues."
"THE SUBJECT, “The Social Impact of Television,” is one which both provokes our thoughts and stirs our spirits. Our emotions are mixed — there is pride of accomplishment as well as a measure of awe and a bit of fear. Like other great creations of science, television holds the potential of both good and evil, depending upon the uses to which it is put."
"AS A RESULT of a study made by a working group of the AIEE, three companion articles have been prepared on transmission line protection. The articles are based on a study of a typical transmission system which is shown in Figure 1. A reactance diagram of the system is shown in Figure 2. The study was divided into three parts covering the short lines interconnecting the metropolitan area of the system, the medium-length lines tying to nearby sources or interconnecting with other systems, and the long lines connecting to remote sources or systems."
"The Edison Medal for 1949, an annual award for meritorious achievement in electrical science which constitutes one of the nation's highest engineering honors, was presented to Dr. Karl Boyer McEachron of the General Electric Company on Wednesday, February 1, during the 1950 AIEE Winter General Meeting in New York, N. Y. Dr. McEachron was awarded the medal “for his contributions to the advancement of electrical science in the field of lightning and other high-voltage phenomena and for the application of this knowledge to the design and protection of electric apparatus and systems.”"
"TWO HUNDRED years ago Benjamin Franklin, by vocation a printer and journalist, and by avocation, a politician, diplomat, philosopher, and scientist, was spending his “avocation time” experimenting with static electricity and the newly invented Leyden jar. He presently came to the conclusion that the discharges from a Leyden jar were similar in general character to those occuring during a thunderstorm. But how to prove this conclusion experimentally? With a little shed in a small field near Philadelphia as a laboratory and with his precious Leyden jar and a kite as experimental equipment, and a thunderstorm as a source of electricity, Franklin in 1752 proved his theory. He thereby demonstrated conclusively that a lightning discharge is neither a display of the power or wrath of deities nor of the arrogance of devils, but rather is a large-scale demonstration of the silk cloth and glass tube experiment. Franklin's experimental work was of necessity of a qualitative nature. However, he blazed a trail that has been assiduously followed and greatly widened and extended by the man who has been awarded the Edison Medal for 1949, the highest honor bestowed by the Institute for meritorious achievements in “electrical science, electrical engineering, or the electrical arts.”"
"I DEEPLY APPRECIATE the honor which the Institute has conferred on me in awarding me the Edison Medal for 1949. I accept this award on the basis that it is given not only for whatever personal accomplishment I have been able to make in the field of lightning and of lightning protection; but also in recognition of the contribution of the many other persons associated with me both outside and within my own company. Some indication of their contribution will be apparent from a brief résumé of what has happened in this field in the last 27 years."
"THE MARGINS obtained and the degree of co-ordination between transformers and other insulation in transmission systems depends largely on the possibilities inherent in the insulation design of the transformer. Recently some units have been designed which take full advantage of the impulse characteristics of insulating materials as compared to their 60-cycle strengths. These designs are core-form, or at least have concentric coils, and it is likely that they might be considered to have maximum impulse characteristics compatible with present 60-cycle test requirements. It is believed that these characteristics affect and should be given consideration in the setting of future required impulse levels and tests, and perhaps in the 60-cycle tests which are required."
"SINCE the field of communications had its beginning, the width of the band of frequencies that could be passed by any piece of equipment has been important. Advances in the field have put more rigorous demands on the fidelity of response of some systems, consequently requiring greater pass-bands, and at the same time progress has demanded that other systems become more and more selective with an appropriate limitation of pass-band. Notwithstanding, the specification of bandwidth is not standard, nor has its measurement been simplified greatly."
"WHEN the conditions for balance are satisfied, a fractional-slot lap winding can be laid out in many different patterns, all of which are balanced. The usual pattern is that for maximum distribution factor of the main wave. If this pattern is called the “basic,” all other patterns can be derived from this one by cyclic shifts of coils from one phase to the other within the same repeatable group. The distribution factor of the main wave of the derived patterns, that is, of the patterns with cyclic shift of coils, is always smaller than that of the basic layout. As regards the distribution factors of the harmonics of the derived patterns, some are smaller and some larger than those of the basic pattern."
"“AWARDED by engineers Mo a fellow engineer for distinguished public service.” Such is the legend on the great medal of distinction which has been presented to Frank Baldwin Jewett, in sadness, because after the award was voted by the Hoover Medal Board of Award on November 1, 1949, death ended his career on November 18, 1949."
"THE ADJUSTABLE loss characteristics obtained in the A and B equalizers are shown by the curves of Figure 1. These curves show the maximum adjustment range above and below a reference loss which is approximately 40 decibels in each equalizer. Pairs of curves are identified by a number corresponding to the line-up frequency in kilocycles. The loss can be adjusted continuously or in small steps to fall on curves intermediate to those shown. All intermediate curves are approximately proportional to the limiting cases shown."
"THE PRICES of television receivers are being reduced almost continuously, and at the same time designers are striving to reduce their weight, size, and tube complement. Today, with engineers designing receivers for use on new ultrahigh-frequency channels, efficient, inexpensive converters are needed."
"MANY DRIVES with fluctuating loads must be equipped with flywheels in order to reduce the size of the motor required and the load peaks taken from the supply mains. This problem has been discussed in many papers and technical books, and it is obvious that the general-purpose induction motor cannot be used for flywheel drives. High-slip motors are most suitable as energy stored in the flywheel can be made available."
"IN THE L-1 Carrier System, a pilot frequency of 2,064 kc is supplied at the transmitting terminal. Somewhat more than half the repeater stations are equipped with pilot regulators, which operate on their associated amplifiers to maintain a constant level of pilot at the amplifier outputs. By this means, variations in the loss of the coaxial cable (caused by temperature changes, for example) are compensated, and the over-all transmission maintained constant. At stations not having pilot regulators, manual gain controls are supplied; these are readjusted occasionally."
"THE MAJORITY of failures of impregnated-paper or varnished-cambric lead-covered power cable are due to the entrance of moisture through a break of some kind in the lead sheath. The sheath failures may be due to corrosion, electrolysis, mechanical damage, fatigue attributable to either vibration or cable movement, or high internal pressure. Corrosive action or electrolysis in some degree are fairly common to all lead-covered cables installed in ducts while damage due to mechanical failure is generally confined to those cables which are subjected to large daily variations in load. This latter type of failure has become of increasing importance with the higher loads which have been imposed on power cables during recent years."
"STEAM TURBINE governors must be tested to determine performance of a governor with respect to purchase specifications, to determine the necessity for and the results of maintenance work on the governor, and to determine the optimum settings of the governor through a knowledge of the governor characteristics and system requirements in order that each unit will perform most satisfactorily considering its size, heat rate, location on the system, and local plant steam generating conditions. If the need is only for determining conformance to specifications, elaborate equipment can be used, but to be used effectively in the maintenance and operation of the governor the equipment should be simple to operate and provide the necessary data quickly."
"THE FACT that capacitors are built in units of 25 or 15 kilovars for power circuits makes possible variety of groupings of these convenient “building blocks” to form large banks. The arrangement in which the capacitor units are connected in a 3-phase bank and the type of protective arrangement used may influence the cost of the installation; these factors will certainly have an important bearing on its operation and on the operation of its associated protective devices under fault conditions."
"THE function of the nervous system is that of carrying messages from one point of the body to another. Some of these messages may be received from the outside world and transmitted through relay stations to different centers, others are sent from the higher centers to the periphery and so on. The complexity of the system is strikingly demonstrated in the highest animals where it is formed by billions of units, which are the nerve cells or neurons. This communication system has frequently been compared to the telephone system, especially since electric currents are the propagating agents in both systems. Recently highly developed computing machines have been called electric brains, and there is a trend among a group of scientists to consider these electronic machines as a valuable device for obtaining information as to the functioning of the human brain. This new line of approach has been called “cybernetics” and lately has been the object of a great deal of attention."
"THE RAPID GROWTH of the relatively new 152–174 megacycle band has resulted in complete utilization of all available channels which were assigned alternate 60 kc by July 1949; then the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) suggested assignments every 60 kc. The problems resulting from this ruling were: the adjacent channel selectivity required; the intermodulation products caused in the land and mobile receivers by three or more transmitters operating in the same area; the design of mobile transmitters to meet the FCC requirements regarding spurious radiation; and the modulation limiter to prevent the transmitter from overmodulating."
"THE SELECTION of a rectifier substation for the conversion of alternating current to direct current for the purpose of supplying power for cutting, loading, and hauling coal in mines is a problem to be studied from the standpoint of voltage drop, losses, economics, and maximum loads. From this, and actual field tests and data, the conclusion is reached that for average mining conditions, the optimum size rectifier substation is 300 kw."
"THE GROWING use of teletypewriter service has brought about an increasing need for regeneration. Operating speeds have tended to become higher; more multibranched long-haul circuits are being used, and it has become desirable to allow greater latitude in the maintenance of receivers and other apparatus. These factors cause an increase of signal distortion along the transmission path and a loss of tolerance to distortion at the receiving end of the path. Where the signal distortion is excessive, a regenerative repeater (or even several regenerative repeaters) connected along the circuit may be the best economic answer, and is frequently the only answer to the problem."
"TODAY'S technical engineering graduate does not have a full appreciation of the extreme gradation of job types in the fields he is qualified to enter. In his academic training, he has intensively studied mathematics, chemistry, physics, electrical theory, mechanics, and a host of allied subjects. However, the multitudinous ways in which industry puts such academic training to work has been given only a minor place in the engineering school curricula. This is indeed unfortunate, because graduate engineers are finding jobs fewer and harder to obtain, and the engineer should not only be equipped with a full set of technical tools and a thorough knowledge of how to use them, but he should also know where and how industry uses the engineer with his tools and knowledge."
"These are authors' digests of most of the conference papers presented at the AIEE Winter General Meeting, New York, N. Y., January 30-February 3, 1950. These papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE Transactions or AIEE Proceedings, nor are they available from the Institute."
"Under the leadership of C. D. Malloch as Chairman and A. W. Rauth as Vice-Chairman, plans are being perfected for the AIEE Great Lakes District Meeting to be held at the Hotel Hayes, Jackson, Mich., on Thursday and Friday, May 11 and 12, 1950."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Marked by a technical program surpassing in scope even last year's unprecedented Winter Meeting program, the AIEE Winter General Meeting for 1950 was held in New York, N. Y., January 30-February 3. Again, as last year, to provide for the greater convenience of the more than 3,200 members and guests attending the meeting, headquarters were set up at the Hotel Statler with its many facilities for both technical and social activities."
"Editor's Note: This department has been created for the convenience oj the various AIEEtechnical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items forthis department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded t& R. S. Gardnerat AIEE Headquarters, 33 frtst 39th Street, New Tork 18, N. T."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of January 19, 1950, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"March 15, 1950, has been announced as the closing date for the nation-wide survey of selected engineering personnel now being sponsored by the Engineers Joint Council for the United States Office of Naval Research. To date over 60 per cent of the 115,000 questionnaires sent to full members of 18 national engineering societies have been answered. After processing by The American Society of Mechanical Engineers, contracting agent under an ONR agreement, the questionnaires will be kept in Washington as a source file of the nation's key engineers and scientists."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Laboratory Standards. The Measurements Corporation, Boonton, N. J., has published a 44-page catalog, “Laboratory Standards,” which presents the complete line of standard signal generators, television signal generators, pulse generators square wave generators, megacycle meters, vacuum tube voltmeters and other laboratory instruments manufactured by the company. Copies may be obtained by writing to Measurements Corporation for catalog C."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"I TAKE IT as a very high honor to be invited to address so important and responsible a body as the AIEE, although I could have wished for a more congenial subject than socialistic trends in Britain as they affect America."
"I SALUTE the electrical engineers of America. I salute them for their very major part in the contribution which scientists and engineers have made to the lightening of burdens and the brightening of the way of mankind, and to the victory achieved by our forces in the recent war."
"Electronic computers to give a television-like picture of how water behaves may help make possible more efficient use of water supplies and water power, according to engineers at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Under a special grant from the Research Corporation of New York, the hydraulics division of the MIT civil engineering department is studying possible applications of so-called analogue computers to make hydraulic engineering predictions faster and more accurately."
"IN THE TEST, calibration, checking, and setting of protective relays, and in the determination of their characteristic operating curves, it is of course necessary to apply to the relays the quantity or quantities which are expected to operate it. Problems are sometimes encountered in obtaining suitable test facilities, particularly when two or more variable a-c quantities are involved, and the phase angle between the quantities must be known or controlled. The solution to such problems generally may be obtained in the laboratory by special circuits and equipment."
"SINCE THE FIRST installation of electric power on board the USS Trenton in 1883, the United States Navy has always been a major user of d-c power. After the introduction of 440-volt alternating current into the Navy with installations on the Farragut-class destroyers in 1932 there was still a continued use of a sizable amount of direct current. All vessels having a-c systems required some direct current for powering excitation supplies, searchlights, battery chargers, and interior communications. Although alternating current had become the accepted standard, smaller vessels, such as landing craft and patrol craft, retained d-c systems in the interest of simplicity. Other vessels, such as large tenders, repair ships, tugs, and submarines, had relatively large d-c power plants installed for electric propulsion purposes."
"INTEREST has been growing in loss-of-excitation protection for synchronous generators, particularly where light-load operation with reduced excitation makes impossible the use of field undercurrent and undervoltage relays. Many differential-analyzer studies have been made of the loss-of-excitation characteristic, and these combined with recent relay developments have resulted in a simple relay having greater selectivity than has heretofore been available."
"THE RESULTS of heat run tests made jointly by the Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Company, Century Electric Company, General Electric Company, Reliance Electric and Engineering Company, and Westinghouse Electric Corporation on a motor exchange program involving motors at 1750 rpm, 40 degrees centigrade open, from 1/2 to 50 horsepower, were reported in a previous article.1 It was recommended that Table I of the American Standards Association C-50 Standard2 be expanded, using values derived from the results of tests, to cover short-time rated motors and to include limiting values of temperature rise by the resistance method corresponding to existing values for the thermometer method for all windings."
"AN EARLIER paper1 has described the use of X rays to measure the thickness of steel as it is being rolled in a hot-strip rolling mill. The great success of this method of measurement has stimulated study of the possibilities of using other types of radiation in a similar manner. Of these, beta rays appear to hold the greatest promise at the present time."
"ELECTRIC amplifying devices exist in a number of distinct forms such as electronic, magnetic, and rotating amplifiers, each with a distinct field of usefulness. The rotating amplifier is most prominent where relatively large power outputs are required. However, even rotating amplifiers have been used in the past only as relatively small machines. This article considers the incorporation of amplification in large-sized generators where questions previously neglected must be considered."
"THE INCREASED USE and accuracy of automatic control systems for industrial and military applications has made it essential that system components be reexamined in terms of over-all system operation. It is the purpose of this article to study the application of d-c motors in these systems in order to 1. Determine the motor constants which affect system performance. 2. Convert the important motor system constants into design factors, such as armature diameter andlength, flux and copper densities, and so forth. 3. Determine the motor design which will giveoptimum over-all system performance."
"THE MERCURY-POOL rectifier is a thoroughly reliable machine when properly protected and applied with the understanding that it is subject to infrequent, randomly occurring, internal faults known as arc-backs. An arc-back is a failure of an anode to block the flow of current from cathode to anode, resulting in a unidirectional short circuit between that anode and all normal anodes."
"PROTECTIVE relaying development over the years has produced a wide choice of equipment varying from simple instantaneous current types to more complicated directional and impedance types. The ingenuity of relay engineers has produced a still wider choice of methods of applying the various types of relays which are available."
"IT IS well known that the transient response of a network can be specified completely in terms of its steady-state behavior and vice versa. This is one of the most significant interpretations attached to the Fourier and Laplace transformations as applied to the study of electric networks. Actually, the steady-state and transient concepts are regarded as alternative viewpoints of network behavior as expressed in the frequency and time domains respectively."
"ALTHOUGH important problems in the field of cable engineering require the determination of transient temperatures of cables, the rather formidable mathematics involved in a rigorous solution discourages many engineers from attempting these calculations. Thus, comparatively fewengineers are familiar with the methods of solving such problems. Since the ability to handle transient temperature calculations is necessary both in the determination of short-time overload ratings and in the design of oil-filled cable lines, this subject should be mastered by cable engineers employed by utility companies. A new method of solving the transient temperature and oil demand problems of 3-conductor cables is particularly stressed."
"THE ELECTRICAL engineering student engaged in a study of a-c theory is helped immensely in gaining a basic understanding of the interrelationships between the voltage and current quantities in a circuit when he is able to observe and study at least two of the quantities simultaneously. However, commercial apparatus which makes this possible, the oscillograph, the cathode-ray tube oscilloscope with “electronic-switches,” and double-beam cathode-ray tube oscilloscopes, have been little used by the student himself because the problems of interconnections, time-base adjustments, synchronizing, calibration adjustments, and the like are beyond the abilities of the average student commencing his study of a-c circuits."
"A method of taking aerial photographs with synchronized movie cameras has been developed at Northwestern University for the Navy. Films are exposed at the rate of 20 frames per second, and the cameras are synchronized to within ±0.002 second. The system includes: a plane-to-plane radio link for controlling equipment and relating data between two or more aircraft; a timing system for relating all data to an accurate time base; oscillograph recording for continuously checking the accuracy of the motor control system and for interpolating the data to a higher degree of accuracy if required; dial photography designed especially to obtain high illumination and satisfactory pictures of fast moving dials; film coding for marking the film of different cameras for matching."
"WHILE there exists a large volume of printed matter on all the aspects of high-voltage cables, the design of the related joints on a theoretically rigorous basis has not hitherto been published in a comprehensive manner. Joints can be classified as the homogeneous case and the heterogeneous case. In the former case the joint and cable insulants are assumed of identical material, whereas in the latter the conditions pertain where the cable insulant is of the usual graded construction and the joint insulant of some different material or dielectric constant."
"THE USE of air-core reactors as current-limiting means is very old and well established. They are used in large power networks for the protection of the generating equipment and the transmission system. Because of large currents in such networks, the reactors have very small inductances to avoid excessive voltage drops and are made of large conductors to keep losses within reasonable values. The electromagnetic forces, experienced during a fault, demand very rigid construction; consequently they often are embedded in concrete. If, however, reactors are installed in feeder or branch circuits where the normal currents are of much lower values, their inductances can be increased proportionately, limiting fault currents to lower values."
"DURING the past 20 years, there have been numerous supervisory systems using various designs and basic principles of transmitting signals such as tone, counting chain codes, or sequence chain codes. Any supervisory system should fulfill the following essential operating requirements: 1. Transmit control circuit selection code and check this transmission before the control operation is performed. Prevent the operation if the correct checking signal is not received. 2. Be suitable for operation over any commonly available type of channel for use in controlling a number of outlying stations from a single control station. 3. Components should harmonize with other switchboard devices and thus be suitable for building into standard switchboards. 4. Equipment should be easy to expand to take care of future growth. Be simple, easy to install, maintain, test, and operate. Be rapid, have uniform speed of operation for all points. 5. Be available for either 48-volt or 125-volt d-c operation and have the same standard range of battery voltage as the remainder of the switchgear devices. 6. Include provision for telemetering and telephone communication."
"THE NECESSITY for much greater cranking power to start aircraft jet engines has led to problems radically different from those encountered in starting reciprocating engines. Although early considerations indicated no promise for the use of electrical means to start aircraft jet engines, the development of the constant-current power supply characteristic has completely changed the original evaluations."
"MANY different converter circuits have been developed. They may be classified as single-way or double-way, depending upon the polarity of the current pulses which flow in the d-c windings of the rectifier transformer. Single-way circuits are most common in power rectifiers and require a transformer with an even number of d-c windings per a-c winding in order to avoid saturation of the transformer core because of the direct current flowing in each one of the windings."
"THE RECENTLY issued specification on Prime Mover Speed Governing for steam turbines intended to drive electric generators, rated 500 kw and up, includes definitions and descriptions of terms relating to governor functions and standards of performance. This article is intended to show the application of the terms and definitions to modern speed-governing systems and to indicate how the systems meet or can be made to meet the requirements of the performance specifications."
"ANEW 2-channel carrier telegraph system for short submarine telegraph cables has been developed for the Western Union Key West-Havana cables, about 100 nautical miles in length and with attenuations up to 80 decibels at 1,000 cycles per second. It utilizes standard land-line frequency-modulation channel terminal equipment and provides 50-cycle telegraph transmission on both channels without appreciably degrading the physical circuits."
"Electrostatics made while I was doing that repair job on the Van de Graaff generator at the Research Laboratory. I am glad to be back down here on the test floor again where I work with motors and generators which I fully understand. However, I still have my inventive ability tuned to the stars, and I am working on nothing less than the problem of getting rid of the commutators on d-c machines. Needless to say if I get rid of the commutator, I'll also get rid of the brushes and brush-rigging since I am not going to have the brushes ride on empty air, ha! ha! Also, needless to say that will be a wonderful advance in the art of d-c machines"
"SINCE the initial tests and trial application of high-speed reclosing to high-voltage tie-line circuit breakers a little over 13 years ago by Philip Sporn and D. C. Prince,1 high-speed reclosing of such circuit breakers has become standard practice on most modern American transmission systems. Today, when capital investment and operating costs are more important than ever before, high-speed reclosing is almost universally recognized by transmission engineers in this country as one of the most economical methods of 1. Increasing the maximum power which can be transmitted over long high-voltage tie lines without loss of synchronism following a short-circuit tripout. 2. Reducing system disturbance and shock at the instant of reclosing by reconnecting the two parts of the system before they have swung too far apart. 3. Reducing line outage time and improving service to customers."
"THE CHARACTERISTICS of dynamoelectric amplifiers operating under transient conditions have been discussed previously. This article points out the similarity of the external effects of these amplifiers to one another, shows their similarity to electronic amplifiers, and presents the equivalent circuits that can be used to predict satisfactorily the performance of these amplifiers under a-c steady-state conditions."
"IN SELECTING the single-line diagram for a substation its requirements from the point of view of the following should be considered."
"THE TERMS saturable reactor, d-c controllable reactor, transductor, and magnetic amplifier have been used to denote an iron-cored inductor in which the a-c impedance can be controlled by magnetically saturating the core with an auxiliary d-c winding. In this article, the term saturable reactor will be used to denote the iron-cored inductor itself, and the term magnetic amplifier will be applied to the entire circuit which makes use of the properties of the saturable reactor in order to amplify a signal. In many practical magnetic amplifiers, positive feedback is used to increase the amplification."
"FOR THE PAST several years there have been three separate AIEE Standards bearing on the lightning Protective devices field: Report on Proposed Standard for Protector Tubes, AIEE 24, July 1940; American Standards for Lightning Arresters for A-C Power Circuits, AIEE 28, May 1944; and Proposed Standard for Expulsion Type Distribution Lightning Arresters, AIEE 47, December 1945; all prepared under the sponsorship of the AIEE Protective Devices Committee. By the time of the publication of AIEE Standard 47, it was evident that there was much material in these various Standards which had a common application, and many of the definitions and test procedures were common. W. J. Rudge, then Chairman of the Lightning Protective Devices Subcommittee of the Protective Devices Committee, perceived the advantages of merging all three Standards, and set up a working group for such a project.∗ It was believed that the combining of Standards on lightning protective devices not only should lead to improved nomenclature, but would bring into sharper focus the inherent characteristics of the different species of lightning arresters, and at the same time would improve the accessibility of desirable information."
"These are authors' digests of most of the papers to be presented at the Conference on Electric Welding, Detroit, Mich., April 5–7, 1950. The conference is sponsored by the AIEE in co-operation with the American Welding Society and the Industrial Electrical Engineers Society in Detroit. These papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE Transactions or AIEE Proceedings, nor are they available from the Institute."
"These are brief authors' digests of most of the papers presented at the first AIEE Power Conference, sponsored by the AIEE Committees on Power Generation, Industrial Power Systems, and System Engineering, to be held in Pittsburgh, Pa., April 19–20, 1950. These papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE Transactions or AIEE Proceedings, nor are they available fromthe Institute"
"A program of broad interest has been arranged for the 3-day meeting of the AIEE North Eastern District to be held in Providence, R. I., April 26–28, 1950. Meeting headquarters will be in the Sheraton-Biltmore Hotel. A variety of subject matter appropriate for the locality of the meeting will be presented in seven technical sessions. A special program for the women, inspection trips to nearby industries, an informal banquet and dinner in the evenings assure a busy time. In addition, the Board of Directors of the Institute will meet at the Sheraton-Biltmore Hotel on Thursday, April 27."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"An interesting and comprehensive technical program is being formulated for the AIEE Great Lakes District Meeting which will be held in Jackson, Mich., May 11–12, 1950, with headquarters at the Hotel Hayes. The program will be divided into four general categories: “Transmission and Distribution,” “Magnetic Amplifiers,” “Generators and Motors,” and “Power Plants.”"
"A Conference on Improved Quality Electronic Components is to be held on May 9, 10, and 11, 1950, in the Department of the Interior Auditorium, Washington, D. C. This conference is sponsored by the AIEE, the Institute of Radio Engineers, and the Radio Manufacturers Association, with the active assistance of the National Bureau of Standards and the United States Department of Defense."
"The regular meeting of the AIEE Board of Directors was held at Institute headquarters, New York, N. Y., on Thursday, February 2, 1950, and concluded at the Hotel Statler, New York, on Friday afternoon, February 3."
"Editor's Note: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of February 16, 1950, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objections to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections must be furnished and will he treated as confidential."
"A new electrical laboratory, so complete it can duplicate for testing purposes the entireelectric system of large multiengined aircraft, has been put into operation at Seattle, Wash., by the Boeing Airplane Company."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"Color TV — Now or Later? Gives a technical description of the various color television systems now under development, outlining the advantages and limitations of each. Priced at one dollar, this report is available from The Television Research Institute, 207 East 43d Street, New York 17, N. Y."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"IF IT HAD not been for Professor Walter J. Seeley, Vice-President of District 4, we should have missed this one. At the last meeting of the Board of Directors on February 2, he called our attention to the fact that the first Student Branch Conference of the Institute was held 25 years ago this spring under the joint auspices of the Philadelphia Section and the Student Branch at the University of Pennsylvania. He reminded us of the results of that first conference and urged some appropriate observance of its 25th anniversary. As usually happens to the maker of a good suggestion, he was given the job of writing the story. It is a story by an eyewitness. He was Chairman of the Student Branch Committee of the Philadelphia Section at the time. Our thanks to him for the reminder and for preparing the article. (See page 389.)"
"IN RECENT YEARS, engineering students have been constantly reminded that, in addition to their technical abilities, they must acquire and maintain poise, understanding, and a co-operative spirit in their daily associations with other people."
"JUST 25 years ago the first Student Branch Conference of the AIEE met at the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. It was then called a Student Branch Convention and was a joint activity of the Philadelphia Section and the Student Branch at the Moore School of Electrical Engineering. The following account of that meeting is quoted from the April 1925 AIEE Journal:"
"EQUALIZATION of coaxial lines for television service involves requirements more severe than those which apply for telephone service. Level variations throughout the transmission band must be smaller for television transmission, and the delay distortion, which presents no serious problem in the broad-band system used for telephone service, must be equalized. This delay distortion within the transmitted band arises primarily from gain cutoff outside the band and thus usually is of a broad nature. The magnitudes, however, are such that a high degree of precision is needed to meet television requirements."
"THE determination of the voltage regulation of a-c generators with suddenly applied load has become a problem of considerable importance. When the load which may be added suddenly is appreciable compared with the connected generating capacity, consideration must be given to the effect of the voltage drop on other connected load as well as on that just added. Too great a drop may result in the dropping out of a-c contactors on other equipment, stalling of heavily loaded motors, malfunctioning of radar or other voltage-sensitive equipment, and in adverse effects upon the starting characteristics of motors thrown on the line. Relatively small power plants with large motor loads are particularly subject to this phenomenon since the starting load may be several times the running load. Examples are isolated coast-defense gun installations, naval ship-service generators, industrial power plants, and auxiliary house generators of central-stations. In the latter case a heavy motor load may be transferred to the house generator if the normal supply fails."
"IN AN interconnected power system, load changes sufficient to affect system frequency are shared by all the generators on the system in proportion to their ratings and their governor characteristics. While this is desirable in most instances, it may present a problem where large fluctuating loads are remote from major sources of generation. Such a problem exists in the case of a new aluminum rolling mill near Davenport, Iowa, whose electrical requirements are supplied by the Iowa-Illinois Gas and Electric Company. The mill load swings are expected to vary between 5,000 and 8,000 kw above and below the mean load (16,000 kw maximum total swing) and vary at a rate of between 2,000 and 5,000 kw per second."
"TWO ELECTRIC charges of the same sign have been observed, since the early experiments with frictional electricity and pith balls, to repel each other. An electrified pith ball is said to have an electric field, and a second one near it lies in that field and is repelled. The mechanical force is “action at a distance,” and standard books give no description or explanation of what causes the mechanical force or what is happening between the two charges to convey the action from one to the other. Such a description is not given by saying that there is an electric field at all points between the two charges — that is merely stating that a charge placed at any of the points will be repelled, always by action at a distance. Electrostatic repulsion is thus one of the mysteries of science."
"IN VIEW of the response to its 1949 survey of employment programs for engineering graduates and the interest in that survey's results (see EE, Jul '49, pp 565–8), the General Survey Committee of the Engineers Joint Council now has completed a similar survey of the 1950 programs."
"THE ROOT LOCUS method solves the problem of finding the roots of the characteristic equation by an extension of concepts now associated with the frequency-response method. The roots describe the natural response of the system, and knowing them permits a solution for any input. Consider a simple single-loop system, shown in Figure 1, for convenience in developing a physical picture."
"SINCE February 1949, the Western Union Telegraph Company has installed main office facsimile concentrator apparatus and associated patrons' telefax equipment in eight cities: Atlanta, Cincinnati, Dallas, Houston, Los Angeles, New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco. Some 1,900 patrons, using the new Desk-Fax transceivers,1,2 are connected to the nearest telegraph office. The multiline concentrator apparatus designed for this service consists of one or more concentrator operating tables (Figure 1) each with a 50-line turret, and one apparatus cabinet, located in a less busy section of the floor, for every two operating tables."
"A MATHEMATICAL analysis was made to determine the effect of symmetrical series reactance in the supply lines upon the speed-torque relation, the power factor, and the efficiency of standard induction motors. The analysis showed that torque, the speed for pull-out torque, and the power factor are functions of the added reactance. The efficiency, however, is a function of the machine constants and speed only, and is, therefore, not affected by the added reactance. The nature of the speed-torque and power-factor variation is as follows, if the supply voltage is assumed constant. The expression for the speed at pull-out is actually an expression for impedance match between stator and rotor. The addition of a small series capacitive reactance into each phase reduces the impedance of the machine, thus increasing the current and also the torque. The impedance match between the windings, however, occurs at a lower speed, thus reducing the speed for pull-out. Addition of more capacitive reactance depresses the speed for pull-out and increases the magnitude of pull-out torque until a critical value of series reactance is reached. At this critical value, series resonance and pull-out occur at the same speed, and the impedance match for pull-out becomes a resistance match. Therefore, this critical value of series reactance determines the maximum value of pull-out torque that can be obtained from the machine at constant voltage. Furthermore, the speed for pull-out has been reduced to its minimum value, since it is limited by the ratio of rotor to stator resistance."
"A DEVICE for suspending power-line cables at the insulators must be satisfactory from the point of view of the stresses produced. The more acute bends at the points of suspension will obviously result in greater bending stresses in the cable there than in the free span between them. This bending stress is also increased by the tensional stress in the cable. Quite gentle winds, moreover, may easily set up vibrations in the cable, which will increase the stresses at the points of suspension to such an extent that the cables will break after a longer or shorter period. The efforts to reduce this drawback were at first directed wholly to reducing the effect of cable vibrations while disregarding the necessity of diminishing the much larger and more dangerous bending stresses."
"A LARGE-SCALE analogue computer, capable of solving the general equations of motion of an aircraft, to be used primarily in the development of aircraft control systems is being developed at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The electronic servomechanism simulator is included as a portion of the computer to represent electrically the dynamic behavior of the servomechanisms which position the aircraft control surfaces. These servomechanisms usually are designed to operate linearly. However, a servomechanism which is small enough to be practical occasionally will be required to operate at the extreme limits of its physical capacity — beyond its linear range."
"IT CANNOT be emphasized too strongly that safety must be designed into substation structures and equipment installations. It is believed that many tragic accidents which have occurred in substations had their inception when unnecessary hazards were built into the stations. The combination of an unsafe condition and an unsafe act usually results in a personal injury and is generally recorded as a careless act on the part of the injured. Investigations have revealed many contributing factors in the occurrence of accidents."
"IN THE DEVELOPMENT of standard patterns for switching and transformer stations for the 66-kv system of the Pennsylvania Power and Light Company full recognition was given to the interdependence of other standard patterns for general system development."
"THE PETROLEUM and natural gas industries utilize fractionating columns to separate hydrocarbons of high volatility from hydrocarbons of low volatility. Each column, or tower, is a type of equipment which permits a liquid stream to cascade down over a series of trays or plates and allows a vapor stream to bubble up through the plates countercurrent to the liquid stream. The feed stream (containing several components such as methane, ethane, butane, propane, and so forth) enters one of the chambers part way up the column. Each of the components of the feed is present in varying amounts in the liquid stream falling from a given plate and the vapor stream rising from a given plate. The relative amounts of the several components in a given stream depend upon several factors including the temperature and pressure of the stream and the relative amounts of the liquid and vapor components in the streams approaching the plate. Within the column as a whole, large percentages of the less volatile components fall in liquid form toward the bottom, while large percentages of the more volatile components rise in vapor form toward the top. The liquid and vapor flows within the tower are maintained by supplying heat to the bottom of the column and removing it from the top."
"ROTARY WEB printing presses reached essentially their present form at least 50 years ago. Electric drives have kept abreast of press developments to produce a better product at higher speed. The resulting press drives are highly refined equipments designed to meet the special application problems of press operation."
"IN MANY industrial control applications, particularly in process industries, interruptions due to tube failures can be costly. Removal of gas tubes at fixed intervals to insure continuity of service does not improve reliability enough to be a solution. Statistically, a certain group of long-life tubes will be replaced by some short-life tubes. A means of anticipating end of life is, therefore, highly desirable."
"PRESENT-DAY large, interconnected transmission systems, such as the hypothetical one under consideration in this study, illustrated in Figure 1, have many common problems with regard to economical line loading, optimum placement of generating capacity, and satisfactory solutions of protective relaying and reclosing requirements to provide the best over-all system performance."
"ONE STEP in the calculation of underground cable temperatures involves the determination of the temperature rise of the cable surface above the immediately surrounding enclosure such as a duct structure or a gas- or oil-filled pipe. Since the intervening medium is a fluid, the mode of heat transfer simultaneously involves convection, conduction, and radiation."
"THE YEARS since the war have been highlighted by ever-increasing costs of production. With such a condition existing, the need for automatic devices to monitor and control processes becomes increasingly urgent. The need for devices which would provide data is felt even more pressingly. If additional labor to read curves, instruments, and so forth, can be eliminated and the data obtained in numerical form, even further advantages can be obtained."
"THE USE of rectifiers for d-c motor control is a natural development because of their ease of control, high speed of response, and use of all static components. The economics of d-c motor drive applications showed that 550 volts direct current would give the best return. Standard rectifier equipment has been developed which delivers 550 volts direct current directly from a 460-volt 3-phase power system by using a 3-phase double-way (full-wave) rectifier power circuit. The majority of d-c motor drive applications can be supplied from 150-kw, 300-kw, or 500-kw power units."
"THE MOTOR-DRIVEN exciter set consists of an induction motor directly driving an exciter, with, usually, added flywheel inertia. The exciter set may be one of a number of station auxiliaries on a bus which derives its power from either the main generator terminals through a transformer, from the external system through a transformer, or from a separate house generator (Figure 1). Under normal operating conditions or under emergency conditions resulting from the failure of an auxiliary power supply it may be necessary to transfer the station auxiliaries from one bus to another."
"IN THE FIELD of dynamics, problems concerned with aircraft motion are noted for their complexity. The ordinary differential equations which generally can be used to characterize the problems commonly are of order between 20 and 30 and, unless drastic assumptions are made, contain many nonlinear terms. Important nonlinear effects are introduced by the trigonometric effects associated with the motion of a rigid body with six degrees of freedom as well as by the nature of the aerodynamic forces and moments acting upon the aircraft. Also, if the aircraft is controlled automatically, the nonlinear properties of the controlling equipment are significant. The complexity of the problems is such that computing machines are required for their solutions."
"LATE IN 1948 construction was completed on a new Electrical Engineering Building for the University of Washington, Seattle. Built at a cost of nearly one million dollars, the building is a true example of functional design in every respect. It consists of three full floors with a total area of approximately 60,000 square feet."
"BECAUSE the induction generator has many advantages, it is desirable to consider what changes must be made, if any, in order that an induction motor may be operated satisfactorily as a generator. If the speed is driven above synchronism by the same number of revolutions that the machine normally operates below synchronism, the generator will deliver approximately rated current at rated voltage and rated efficiency. The electric power output will equal approximately the rated shaft motor power. The generator power factor will equal approximately the motor power factor times the motor efficiency."
"INSULATION levels for transformers and circuit breakers for high voltages, to be economical, should be selected so that basic impulse insulation levels are as low as are feasible. Presently recognized basic insulation levels are too conservative for the grounded-neutral higher voltage systems. Available levels should be of such values that the user can select a level that is practical and economical for his system. If wide gaps exist between available levels, the user may find it to his economic advantage to depart from standards."
"TESTS on rectifier motive power equipment which have been announced recently1 constitute a very important development in the electrification of steam railroads. Not only does this development mark another important step of progress in the use of electric energy as motive power on railroads, but it forms another practical demonstration of the inherent flexibility of the single-phase a-c system for railroad electrification."
"LARGE DISCREPANCIES between the measured values of resistance of three identical conductors with 3-phase current have been reported by observers.1 It has been the practice to take the average of the values of resistance measured on the three conductors as being the true value of a-c resistance of each. This procedure is valid if the resistances of three conductors are actually equal."
"THE USE of heterodyne oscillators in testing and maintenance of carrier telephone systems has created the problem of designing long frequency scales of high accuracy and good readability. It has been found that for panel-mounted equipment with a well illuminated scale to be read at arms length the scale modulus should be such that the smallest interval which it is desirable to read is not less than 0.05 inch. For carrier system applications, the corresponding frequency interval is independent of the frequency and so the correct choice is a linear scale."
"TO SUPPLY power to certain types of shipboard instruments, a source of alternating current is required in which the frequency error must be ±0.1 per cent or less over a range of temperatures, loads, and supply voltages. This need has been met by the use of small motor-driven alternators which run on the ship's d-c power supply. Frequency regulation is accomplished by shunt-field current control in the motor, and the field current is controlled by some form of servomechanism and frequency-sensing device."
"A GYROSCOPE is a wheel or disk which rotates about an axis through its center (called spin axis) and which is also capable of rotation about one or more axes perpendicular to the spin axis and to each other. If the wheel is mounted so it is capable of rotation about three intersecting axes, it is said to be unconstrained with respect to rotation and possesses then the well-known and interesting property of maintaining the plane of its spin axis fixed in space as long as no external forces are applied to it. This property has been made use of in gyrocompasses, stabilizers, and other instruments which measure or correct any deviation of the supporting body from the reference axis of the gyroscope."
"THE DETERMINATION of transmission-system losses as a function of generating-station loading is of importance to the engineers responsible for the efficient operation of electric power systems. Those responsible for load dispatching have for the most part operated with a good knowledge of generation costs in each individual station, but have had relatively little knowledge of the effect on system losses resulting from shift of load from one station to another. In order to operate at a maximum over-all efficiency it is necessary to determine, for any generator schedule, the cost of system losses and then to correlate these costs with station operating costs. Such an approach is of value in the operation of existing stations and in the location of proposed new generating stations. The present article is concerned with the derivation of a loss formula, expressing the total transmission loss in terms of station loadings. The formula may be applied to the co-ordination of losses with station costs as described in a recent paper."
"EARLY IN the studies now in progress on the Tidd 500-kv test lines at Brilliant, Ohio, it was thought that the voltage gradient at the earth's surface might have an important effect on corona and radio influence. Since the phase conductors on a grounded-neutral transmission system are grounded for d-c potentials through the transformers, the earth's electric gradient induces a static charge on these conductors of such polarity and magnitude as to nullify exactly the potential which would exist in space if the conductors were not present. The presence of this induced static charge establishes a gradient on the surface of the conductors which theoretically is superimposed upon the gradient produced by the applied alternating voltage, and thus it may alter the corona and radio influence performance of the line. It was decided to include an investigation of these effects in the Tidd test program."
"CURVES showing the relations between lightning arrester discharge voltages and transformer impulse strengths are often published to show the margin between the two and to illustrate how securely protection is obtained. As published, they always show a considerable margin. Furthermore, as published, they reflect the values which have been set up as commercial standards."
"ACCURATE ELECTRICAL TESTING for maintenance of quality control of d-c machines is highly desirable. To achieve this with the conventional load-run test methods necessitates that a good brush fit on the commutator be first established. Such fitting involves brush sanding, seating, and running under load until stability is obtained. This is a time-consuming and expensive process. The test here described offers a practical means of controlling the quality of the product in repetitive production. However, it neither obviates the necessity of load-testing in development work, nor of periodic load-testing as a check on quality in general production."
"IN PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS of electronic amplifiers in the field of electrical measurements and control problems two serious disadvantages of tube amplifiers must be considered. First, the life of vacuum tubes is limited, and second, shocks or vibrations are dangerous to such tubes. In order to maintain the various advantages introduced by suitable use of electronic amplifiers and to avoid the serious disadvantages mentioned, a tubeless amplifier has been developed in different countries, namely, the magnetic amplifier, also called d-c controlled reactor, saturable reactor, and transductor. This amplifier consists of electric and saturable magnetic circuits so interlinked that a direct current controls the reactance of an a-c circuit. The magnetic amplifier, which is a real d-c amplifier containing no moving parts and not requiring any servicing, will be of great importance in future development of numerous technical fields offering rough working conditions. This amplifier will undoubtedly have extensive use, chiefly in the electrical control of military equipment, in commerce, and for control of various manufacturing processes and automatic devices for private use."
"FROM THE STANDPOINT of the electrical engineer, a continuous process may be defined as one requiring a continuous supply of electric energy to prevent excessive spoilage of the product. Even though individual production components may be shut down in sequence for routine maintenance, the over-all process usually requires that electric power be available at all times, year in and year out. Also, the small relative load required for each component usually prohibits sufficient segregation of electric circuits to permit simultaneous maintenance of the major electric equipment supplying that component. Consequently, the importance of providing reserve distribution facilities to permit adequate maintenance and repair of all electric apparatus becomes a major problem in design whenever such processes are involved. To provide such facilities at a minimum cost is a real problem and one to constantly test the mettle of the electrical engineer."
"The AIEE Great Lakes District Meeting, to be held at the Hotel Hayes in Jackson, Mich., May 11 and 12, 1950, will cover the subjects of motors, magnetic amplifiers, distribution, generation, transmission, metering, and student papers, both by graduates and undergraduates. Inspection trips for both days have been arranged and these inspection trips are closely allied with the subject matter on the technical program."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Editor's Note: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items for thisdepartment, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N Y."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"A color television picture tube was demonstrated recently in Washington, D. C., by the Radio Corporation of America, as part of its new all-electronic color television system."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"IT IS with some trepidation that I address these remarks to the Student members of the Institute. Just a short time ago I listened to a lively and somewhat critical discussion among a group of undergraduates of the talks to which they had been exposed by a number of individuals whom I considered to be outstanding in their respective fields of public service. I wondered with more than a trace of uneasiness what was said by those students who had enjoyed the privilege of listening to me on a number of occasions in commenting subsequently upon my sage remarks as well as upon my age, mannerisms, personality, and motives. But that is one of the hazards of being President of the Institute and the critical point of view is by no means peculiar to our younger members."
"THE ULTIMATE in centralization of instrumentation and controls for a steam electric power station might be considered as only one operator for the whole station; this operator would be sitting in a quiet air-conditioned office with one load indicator and one control to start, adjust the load, and stop each main turbine generator. The boiler for each unit and all other equipment would operate automatically, and the man's only duties would be to operate the load controls in accordance with telephone dinstructions from the system load dispatcher. However, this ultimate in simplification is neither economical nor feasible for present-day steam turbine generators, boilers, and auxiliary equipment."
"THE CENTRAL control room of the Warren, Pa., station of the Pennsylvania Electric Company is a balanced combination of control and supervisory rooms, and is a result of that company's investigation into the field of centralized control. This particular installation is serving as a proving ground for various changes which will be incorporated in future plant design and will be used to illustrate the engineering policy being followed by the Pennsylvania Electric Company."
"JUDGED by metropolitan standards, the generating stations of the North Central section of the United States are quite small. A large steam turbine is the 40,000-kw size and the prevailing sizes are from 7,500 kw to 20,000 kw."
"WHEN Oswego Steam Station of the Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation was being designed in the late 1930's, a unit system was decided upon, a unit consisting of a boiler, turbine, and generator. No steam, feed water, or electric interconnections at greater voltage were provided between units. The merits of the unit system in this case have been described elsewhere.1 The controls for such a station required an entirely new approach and presented an opportunity for major improvement."
"WHEN the present work on the Sewaren Generating Station of the Public Service and Gas Company in New Jersey is finished in 1951, the plant will be a 455,000-kw station embodying unit design with central control of the four units in pairs. The first two units started operating in December 1948. Throttle steam conditions are 1,500 pounds per square inch gauge and 1,050 degrees Fahrenheit. The station is arranged to burn coal, fuel oil, or natural gas. All auxiliaries are motor-driven."
"In this article, originally presented as an address before the National Council of Teachers of Mathematics, Past President Lee discusses the importance of mathematics courses in our educational programs — for, as he points out, mathematical concepts are essential not only to the work of the scientist and the engineer, but, in fact, to the work of the world."
"Digest of paper 49–241, “The torques of the synchronous tie — A Steady-State Analysis,” recommended by the AIEE Committee on Rotating Machinery and approved by the AIEE Technical Program Committee for presentation at the AIEE Fall General Meeting, Cincinnati, Ohio, October 17–21, 1949. Published in AIEE Transactions, volume 68, 1949, part 2, pages 1147–52."
"STUDIES of heat transfer from cables in duct banks have indicated the need for more experimental data to establish thermal-resistivity values for several components of the duct system, particularly that portion of the heat flow path from the cable sheath to the outside of the duct wall. Theoretical considerations of heat transfer from the cable to the duct wall have treated the latter as an isothermal surface, and, generally, no consideration has been given to the effect of the thermal resistivity of the duct material. These approximations are made necessary in theoretical studies of cable systems by the complex geometry of the duct assembly, the cable sheath resting non-uniformly at the bottom of the duct. While such studies, supported by the experimental evidence available, yield reasonably accurate thermal resistivity values, the effects of a nonisothermal duct wall and of the thermal resistivity of the duct material can be taken into account by performing measurements on a duct assembly."
"POWER COMPANIES are usually particular about the starting current and running power factor of an induction motor. However, induction-motor manufacturers cannot possibly supply a motor much better in these respects than the present National Electrical Manufacturers' Association Design C standards, even though ideal materials should be discovered in the future."
"Devices using gaseous-conduction phenomena in their operation play an important part in the field of electrical engineering. More than $500,000,000 worth of this type of equipment is being manufactured yearly, and it is being used for various purposes from Geiger counters and ionization gauges to fluorescent lamps and arc furnaces."
"A COMPREHENSIVE MOTOR test program was undertaken to determine the thermal endurance of Class H insulated motors at several different temperatures. A scattering of thermal life and points was obtained over a sufficiently wide temperature range to permit extrapolation of life expectancy to lower temperatures. A comparison was obtained between the behavior of Class B insulation and Class H insulation under the same test conditions. The fundamental concept followed in this test program is that appreciable decrease in the humidified insulation resistance of windings is a criterion of minimum motor insulation life."
"DURING the past two years a great deal of information of value on the technical features of high-voltage line design has been obtained from the field research which is being carried out by the American Gas and Electric Service Corporation in co-operation with eight manufacturers of high-voltage equipment, which was fully described in a symposium of seven technical papers presented before the AIEE.1–7 The objectives and the test facilities used for carrying on the field test work were covered in considerable detail in that series of technical papers."
"THE VARIATION of susceptance method of measuring dissipation factor has been described by Hartshorn and Ward.1 This article describes apparatus and technique designed to increase the speed and, under certain conditions, the accuracy of this method by reducing the number of manual adjustments and instrument readings normally required in its application. A recording meter is employed to obtain traces of the resonance curves for the circuit with and without the dielectric specimen. This is done by having a constant-speed motor-driven capacitor tune the circuit through resonance while a recording milliammeter operated from the vacuum-tube voltmeter traces the voltage resonance curve. Limit switches operate relays which reverse the motor at each end of the travel of the micrometer tuning capacitor, so that the circuit is automatically tuned back and forth through resonance. During the test it is necessary to make only two readings, the settings of the specimen capacitor with and without the specimen in place and to make only one accurate manual capacitor setting for resonance. The resonance curves can be examined at leisure and the computations can readily be made from them. A permanent record of the test is obtained."
"A NEW device has been developed to provide a better means of calibrating watt-hour meters, particularly in the field. With this device, the field testing of watt-hour meters is made much faster and easier as compared to the conventional methods of counting and timing of disk revolutions because an instantaneous and continuous visual indication of meter accuracy is obtained. In general, closer adjustment to correct registration is obtained than by the methods involving successive trials. The device is portable. No special disks, disk markings, or the like are required."
"DR. G. W. VINAL'S article,1 delivered to the AIEE in 1947, was a fine historical presentation, bringing the status of the dry-cell battery up to the beginning of the postwar era of World War II. Whereas it did, among other things, indicate that unusual impetus had been imparted to the dry-cell industry as a result of the war, it did not cover in too much detail the specific improvements that have been brought about by gains in recent technology. The purpose of this article is to discuss, in general, some of the highlights underlying this unusual interest in dry batteries and to discuss some of the important phases of work which are in progress at the present time. In the history of mankind there has been no more impetus placed on lightweight power supplies and batteries than has existed in World War II and the postwar era. This has been largely brought about by the unusual advance in electronics, both from the military and commercial points of view, and the realization that the trend in miniaturization in some types of electronic equipments has brought about the need for small, compact, high-efficiency power supplies to which the dry-cell battery is unusually well adapted, provided certain improvements can be incorporated."
"THE ROTATING COMMUTATOR and brush combination, to say nothing of the other components which go to make up an exciter system, are known to be the most vulnerable part of a generator. It could never be called upon to run long, continuous periods of time without shutdowns for servicing. Therefore, in considering the designs for any improvement it was intended that it would be possible to service vulnerable parts without shutdowns or without affecting the generator output; and at the same time it was desired to supply all spare exciter capacity necessary. It was believed that the exciter and regulator performance could be improved by the use of electronic components, which had already proved themselves over long periods of time in other industrial applications."
"REGENT years have seen rapid development of rubberlike insulating and sheath materials for cable. The introduction of polychloroprene, commonly called neoprene, has provided a sheath material that is highly resistant to heat, flame, and abrasion. The availability of polychloroprene and heat- and ozone-resistant rubbers has influenced cable engineers to review cable practice in many fields, including mining, in the light of the improved safety and economy possible with such materials."
"ACLUTCH-DRIVEN alternator, which will maintain its output frequency constant within one per cent although the driving speed varies more than 80 per cent, has been developed at the Naval Ordnance Laboratory. The 200-watt alternator is used in ordnance equipment wherein adequate mechanical power is available, but not at a constant speed. Two different types of slip clutches were developed to convert the variable-drive shaft speed to constant alternator rotor speed. Both are self-contained, require no external excitation or reference speed, and are capable of limited regulated speed adjustment."
"THE DEVELOPMENT of nuclear fission as an important source of useful energy is one of the great scientific and technological challenges of the world today. Here is a source of energy which is potentially capable of supplying the world's needs for hundreds of years; yet the problems of developing and proving the technical feasibility and economics are beset with peculiar difficulties, for the solution of which very little precedent exists. First and foremost is the problem of secrecy and security. The fuel for nuclear power plants is also the explosive material of atomic bombs, and the consequences of this fact have a far-reaching effect on every aspect of the task. The political problems of atomic energy are, of course, paramount, but this article will be confined to the scientific phases of the problem."
"IN THE FALL of 1946, a working group was appointed to study present-day sensitive ground protection of 3-phase systems and to prepare a report on this subject. It was realized that the Project Committee would not be able to find new solutions to some of the problems, but it was believed that it would be helpful to summarize present-day practices and to give an indication where developments and improvements are necessary or desirable. A number of papers which concern certain phases of sensitive ground protection have been published during the last ten years which describe in detail some of the fine points not repeated in this report."
"FERROALLOY furnaces form a special group of electric furnaces in which the electrodes are buried in the charge instead of standing over a bath of molten metal as they do in the steel melting furnaces. The main part of the energy is used to perform chemical reactions, such as the reduction of ores, and the subsequent combination of the resulting elements with iron or other elements such as carbon, and so forth."
"ASPEED REGULATOR for a d-c motor driving an a-c generator which will maintain the frequency of the alternator output voltage in synchronism with a frequency source of low power output is described in this article. This is accomplished, in general, by obtaining a voltage proportional to the phase angle between these two frequencies and using this voltage to adjust the field current of the d-c motor, and hence the speed, in such a way as to keep the phase angle constant. By controlling the phase displacement or integral of the speed rather than the speed itself, maintenance of synchronism is ensured, since any steady-state variation in the circuit parameters will be compensated for by a change in the steady-state value of the phase angle."
"MAGNETIC amplifiers, which proved so valable in servo-mechanism equipments during World War II, are being increasingly used as components in all sorts of control and regulating circuits. Today, engineers are uncovering potential uses for these static amplifiers in practically every electrified industry in the United States."
"SPIRALLY-WOUND insulated magnetic cores of thin tape play an important role in modern communication systems. In the telephone plant, high-frequency transformers are required in connection with the simultaneous transmission of a large number of messages over a single circuit. In radar, transformers developing high-power microsecond pulses having large components of energy at high frequencies are used extensively.1 The trend toward high frequencies forced a reduction in the thickness of core laminations. This was necessary to maintain a high effective permeability and low core loss at the operating frequency. Of course, each lamination must be effectively protected against interlaminar welding during the final heat treatment that is required by all high permeability materials to develop their magnetic properties. This welding, unless prevented, permits eddy currents and sets up mechanical stresses which may impair magnetic properties."
"THE TREND IN INDUSTRY is toward the wider use of adjustable-speed drives. An endless list of processes and conditions suggest the reasons for this trend. A piece of material — it may be a strip of steel or a web of cloth or paper — may pass in continuous flow from one machine to another with each machine doing some work in the material. There will be different kinds of materials, changes in physical properties, and changes in size during processing, all of which will require adjustable speed if processing is to be uniform and if high quality is to be maintained."
"These are authors' digests of some of the District papers presented at the AIEE North Eastern District Meeting, Providence, R. I., April 26–28, 1950. These papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE Transactions or AIEE Proceedings, nor are they available from the Institute."
"Editor's Note: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. T."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"IN DISCUSSING the question — is engineering a profession? — it is logical to begin by defining what we mean by a “profession.” If we have a common understanding as to what a “profession” is, we may then be able to ascertain whether or not our particular calling is or could become a “profession.” In the process we should obtain a clearer conception of what it means to belong to a profession in terms not only of the privileges and rewards, but in terms of the obligations as well."
"THE ALCO-GE gas-turbine electric locomotive, shown in Figure 1, is designed for freight service. It is an 8-axle 8-motor B-B-B-B locomotive weighing 253 tons (average) and rated at 4,500 horsepower for traction (at 80 degreees Fahrenheit and 1,500-feet elevation). The locomotive is 83 feet, 7 1/2 inches long, and 14 feet, 3 inches high over the roof sheets. It will negotiate curves of 288-feet radius."
"THE INFLUENCE of great thinkers does not stop at national boundaries. Their message is to the world, and it is fitting that the world pay tribute to them and to the nations from which they come."
"AN INSTALLATION capable of generating hydroelectric power and energy during peak hours and of restoring the water by pump operation during off-peak hours was placed in service at Buchanan Dam, Tex., during 1950. Power and energy are generated by a hydroelectric unit which is similar to modern hydro power plants. The process of lifting large quantities of water from one elevation to another by means of high-efficiency centrifugal pumps driven by electric motors uses the same principles whether intended for domestic, irrigation, or pumped storage use."
"IN CONSIDERING the responsibilities of the consulting engineer, we need first to examine those responsibilities that are the basic obligations of every engineer regardless of whether he may be in that relatively small segment of the profession engaged in consulting practice or whether he may be one of that larger group engaged directly in industry, commerce, research, teaching, government, or the like. After these basic obligations are well understood, we can consider those additional responsibilities that are imposed upon the consulting engineer, particularly those which arise in the consulting engineer's relationship to management."
"IN A REPERFORATOR switching telegraph system all messages allowed to enter the system are in the form required for tape printer operation. Certain tie-line patrons' offices are equipped with page teleprinters, which are un-suited to record messages prepared for tape teleprinter reception. The tape-to-page translator permits the extension of switching methods to the delivery of telegrams to patrons' offices equipped with page teleprinters."
"ONE OF the most important functions of instrument transformers is that of insulation. Whether it is a high voltage or a high current that is to be measured, the measurement can be made in a practical manner only if the end device is insulated from the high circuit voltage."
"THE American Gas and Electric Company system is an outgrowth of many originally isolated systems of diverse origin and characteristics. It serves 1,100,000 customers in more than 2,000 communities. Well integrated and thoroughly interconnected with 16 neighboring systems at 36 different points, its transmission extends over an area with a population of approximately 4,000,000 people in seven states. Power is served to some of the most highly industrialized portions of the nation, albeit about one-third of its customers live in rural areas."
"THE EFFICIENCY of some present-day power equipment such as steam turbines, gas turbines, electric motors, and others has reached the point where further efficiency increases may be of the order of one per cent or less due to a particular design change. Since the output of a prime mover is obtained from torque and speed, these two quantities must be measured with high accuracy for accurate efficiency results. Present standard tachometers are simple in principle but reach a maximum useful accuracy of about one per cent. Often, however, the over-all probable inaccuracy is greater than the small change in efficiency expected due to a design change."
"ENGINEERING, and particularly electrical engineering, has become a science whose future progress depends largely on the extensive use of mathematics and physics. In the writer's early experience it was not unusual to hear prominent engineers state that the place for an integral sign is the violin. The use of complex numbers in circuit analysis, the introduction of operational and transform methods, and the application of tensor analysis in electrical engineering have brought to our profession the realization that not only the integral sign, but also other mathematical hieroglyphics, are indeed just as essential to the engineer as they are to the mathematician."
"A METHOD has been devised to give a visible representation of a magnetic or electrical field. Since reference can be made to another paper1 in which fluid mappers have been described, a very brief description must suffice here. In Figure 1A, a thin and uniform flow space would be provided between the flat face of a slab and the lower surface of a piece of plate glass. A hole or well in the slab, where the conductor is simulated, provides fluid entry; thus it is a source. The iron is represented by a barrier. If the slab and plate were of infinite extent, and if the flow is kept to within the streamline range, fluid-flow lines would simulate magnetic equipotentials, and isopressure lines would simulate flux lines. If a finite slab is made large in all directions as compared with the distance from the source to the singular point S, a close agreement with the idealized case could be secured."
"TOP OIL temperature and winding temperature, where the heating is caused by resistance, are determined by direct measurements when a heat run is made on a transformer in accordance with the American Standards Association Test Code for Transformers.1 However, the average oil temperature is not directly measureable. The Test Code states that the average oil temperature may be approximated by subtracting one-half of the tank temperature gradient (as determined by measurement of the temperature at the top and bottom surfaces of the external cooling means) from the top oil temperature."
"IN REGENT YEARS it has been proved that synchronous generators can be operated over long periods of time without shutdown. In fact, the reliability of turbogenerators is such that more and more emphasis is being placed on getting an excitation system which approaches the reliability of the a-c generator. The electronic exciter may be one answer to the demand for improved excitation."
"THE ELECTRIC SPARK was first treated quantitatively by J. S. Townsend in 1903.1 Since that time, the interpretation of the physical processes that lead to breakdown has been modified radically.2–7 It is the purpose of this report to trace the development of the present concepts of the physical processes which lead to the d-c electric spark, and to discuss to what extent these processes are understood."
"MILITARY NEEDS and planning call for operation at extreme temperatures of a wide variety of equipments; communication, vehicular, and others which are dependent on storage batteries for electric power."
"THE hook-on method is here defined as the measurement of an electrical quantity, where the current component of such measurement is obtained by encirclement of the current-carrying conductor by a removable magnetic structure. This magnetic structure is thereby subjected to a magnetomotive force, which is a unique function of the current and provides a magnetic flux for a secondary winding or an instrument mechanism. Available self-contained instruments are limited to current measurement. Interest in extending this measurement method to active and reactive power has resulted in the development of the self-contained hook-on wattmeter, illustrated in Figure 1. It was necessary that this instrument meet exacting requirements as to weight, simplicity of operation, and range of full-scale capacities (3 to 300 kw)."
"THIS ANALYSIS of series-connected saturable reactors is based on core materials whose magnetic properties can be approximated by a rectangular flux-density-field-intensity curve. The circuit is shown in Figure 1. Switch S is in the position as shown, and therefore the feedback windings Z1 and Z2 are de-energized."
"TO THE AVERAGE person television means but one thing — the home receiver to which he and his family may repair for an evening's entertainment or instruction. And, indeed, the growth of the industry which serves this function has been so phenomenal that it may seem unreasonable to ask more of television than the dissemination of cultural values and relaxation through the medium of broadcasting."
"TWO METHODS are used to transfer powerhouse auxiliary busses supplying station auxiliary motors from one source to another; namely, “closed transition” and “open transition.” For maximum safety with closed transition the feeder circuit breakers should be capable of interrupting a feeder fault when the two sources are tied together. For open transition the feeder circuit breakers have interrupting capacity to handle the short-circuit kilovolt-amperes from only one source at a time. There is an optimum time interval at which reclosure should be made on open transition to give the least disturbance and provide maximum safety to the station equipment. To determine this time interval, transfer tests were made on the auxiliary power system of the Phillips Power Plant, Duquesne Light Company, Pittsburgh, Pa."
"ONLY a few years ago, 3,500,000 kva was the maximum standard rated interrupting capacity for high-voltage circuit breakers, and the interrupting-time ratings were mostly five and eight cycles. This article describes recent developments in interrupting devices that have made available standard circuit breakers for 5,000,000-kva interrupting capacity and 3-cycle interrupting time for 138-, 161-, and 230-kv voltage classes. Particular attention is directed to the circuit breakers recently shipped to the 230-kv switchyard at Grand Coulee Dam which carry a 10,000,-000-kva interrupting capacity rating on a 20-cycle reclosing duty cycle."
"These are authors' digests of most of the District papers presented at the AIEE Great Lakes District Meeting, Jackson, Mich., May 11–12, 1950. These papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE Transactions or AIEE Proceedings, nor are they available from the Institute."
"These are authors' digests of most of the papers presented at the Conference on Telemetering, sponsored by the AIEE and the National Telemetering Forum, in Philadelphia, Pa., May 24–26, 1950. These papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE Transactions or AIEE Proceedings. However, they will be made available in a consolidated report of the conference which may be obtained for $3.50 from AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York, 18, N. Y."
"The 2-day meeting of the AIEE Great Lakes District, held in Jackson, Mich., May 11–12, 1950, featured the subject, “Transmission and Distribution of Electric Energy on Systems With Low Load Density.” Many of the papers which were presented in the seven technical sessions completing the program were directly related to the theme of the meeting. In addition, two sessions were held in which papers were presented in District Branch competition by the Branch Prize winners. Inspection trips were taken to nearby industries and power installations with a banquet each evening and a specially arranged program for the ladies. The total attendance of 536 members, guests, and students evidenced one of the most successful District meetings in the annals of the Institute"
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Components for military electronic equipment must be designed to serve without replacement during the normal life of the equipment if electronics is to continue in its role of increasing importance in modern welfare. This was the idea stressed during a 3-day symposium held in the Auditorium of the Department of the Interior, Washington, D. C, May 9–11, 1950."
"The progress that telemetering has made since the war's end and what can be expected from it in the near future was brought out during the 3-day Conference on Telemetering held at the Benjamin Franklin Hotel in Philadelphia, Pa., May 24–26, 1950"
"An important informative meeting on the current international situation and the problems of national defense, which was arranged for Engineers Joint Council by Colonel. B. LeBailly, Chief, National Organizations Branch, Office of Public Information, Office of Secretary of Defense, was held in the Pentagon, Washington, D. C, May 11, 1950. The meeting served well to show the close co-operation and coordination attained in the Department of Defense through the program of “Unification” with the attendant advantages of the increased effectiveness of the Armed Forces brought about through economy and the avoidance of duplication. The meeting also served to illustrate the close co-operation between the Department of Defense and the engineering societies. Among the 84 representatives who attended were many of the top engineers in the five broad fields of the profession: civil, mining and metallurgical, mechanical, electrical, and chemical engineering. Lieutenant Commander Clarence Cisin presidedand gave valuable background information about each speaker."
"Application of electric power and equipmentto the problems of the textile industry were presented at the Textile Conference, sponsored jointly by the AIEE, the School of Electrical Engineering of the Georgia Institute of Technology, and the French Textile School, which was held in Atlanta, Ga., on April 13 and 14, 1950. The meetings, which were held at the Georgia Institute of Technology, were attended by 210 engineers, manufacturers, and textile designers."
"Editor's Note: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 78, N. T."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of May 18, 1950, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objections to these transfers should befiled at once with the Secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"An accurate sensitive technique for experimentally determining the electricfield distribution and space-charge density within a magnetron has been developed by Dr. D. L. Reverdin at the National Bureau of Standards in Washington, D. C. The new method, which is also well suited to investigations of electron-optical lenses, gas discharge, and other space-charge problems, is a modification of the electron-optical shadow technique recently developed at the Bureau for the quantitative study of minute electric and magnetic fields. A magnetic lens is used to produce shadow images of two fine-wire screens placed at either end of the magnetron in the path of an electron beam. Then, from the distortion in the shadow network caused by deflection of the electron rays as they pass through the magnetron field, the radial electric field is computed. These results are used to obtain the space-charge distribution."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The incoming President discusses some of the problems which face the Institute as it enters a new year of expanded growth and activity."
"A report on the 1949 Membership Opinion Poll on Institute Policy was published in the March 1950 issue of Electrical Engineering, page 194, with a return postal card upon which members were requested to indicate their approval or disapproval of three proposals of policy which had been prepared on the basis of the results of the 1949 poll. A tabulation of the results of the 1950 poll is presented herewith."
"THE LAMME MEDAL was established in 1926 in accordance with the terms of the will of Benjamin Garver Lamme which provided for the award of a gold medal annually to a member of the Institute “who has shown meritorious achievement in the development of electrical apparatus or machinery.” The first medal under this award was granted in 1928, and this year marks the inclusion of the name of C. M. Laffoon among 22 distinguished contributors to the development of machinery and apparatus."
"Theory has shown that a certain repeated-structure voltage divider will give ideal measurements of surge voltages at all frequencies and wave forms. This article discusses a number of these repeated-structure networks and shows what sort of results may be expected with their use."
"SYSTEM STUDIES are generally thought to be the engineering analysis and planning that are done in connection with the operation and expansion of large transmission or interconnected power systems. Distribution systems, particularly systems serving rural areas, often develop haphazardly in response to requests for service from prospective customers with little or no thought being given to over-all planning for the system. The system to be described developed in this manner until an increasing number of complaints of poor service from the customers being served made it obvious that some study would have to be given the system."
"The Number 5 Crossbar System is the newest switching system to be installed for use with dial telephones. It is capable of operation with all present local, tandem, and toll switching systems. It can be used for as few as four digits in a subscriber number, or as many as 11 digits may be used to code the called subscriber completely"
"TECHNICAL developments in metering equipment have been subjects of many interesting and valuable articles, but little has been recorded of the operating problems presented in the use of meters by public utilities and which require engineering consideration in their economic solution. The object of this article is to discuss briefly some of these problems with the thought that it may bring about greater engineering consideration for them. Major items of concern in meter operations are 1. Meter department personnel and training. 2. Selection of types of measurement to be utilized. 3. Meter installation. 4. Meter testing purposes. 5. Standardization of equipment and maintenance of accuracy. 6. Meter records. 7. Periodic meter testing. 8. Shop testing and maintenance of equipment. 9. Meter retirement."
"THE D-C OUTPUT obtained from rectifier power supplies is frequently filtered, particularly if the direct current is used with electronic communication equipment such as radio transmitters and similar apparatus. This filtering is necessary because the alternating component of voltage normally present in the output of rectifiers would result in objectionable hum or other disturbances in the equipment."
"An approximation method is proposed here for analyzing a servomechanism system in order to predict its performance or for designing a system according to desired specifications. This method is particularly adaptable in the selecting of compensating networks for improving the performance of contactor servo-mechanisms."
"THE BASIC elements of an ignitron rectifier installation consist of a rectifier, a rectifier transformer, and the necessary switchgear equipment. The rectifier and the rectifier transformer are the same whether the station is automatically or manually controlled."
"A NEW rotor design has been developed which lifts the present limitations, imposed by the heating and the centrifugal force, upon non-salient-pole rotors and turbine generators. The higher the speed of a device, the lighter it must be to fulfill its functions properly, so the need for high strength and light weight is taken into account."
"The theory involved in the phenomena occurring in gas-filled rectifier tubes is discussed here. It is shown how the two basic laws of electronics, the Richardson-Laue-Dushman equation of thermionic emission and the Child-Langmuir space-charge law, affect the behavior of these tubes."
"Standard-type primary and secondary batteries are unsatisfactory for certain types of Army and Air Corps equipment and, consequently, special purpose batteries suitable for these particular applications had to be developed. This article∗ describes three systems which have been found to be the most effective at the present time."
"WITH THE advancing application of sinusoidal analysis to servo systems, the need has arisen for instruments that will measure a-c steady-state quantities in the frequency range of usual servo operation, either by use of conventional portable instruments or by the development of new instruments. At the present time the oscillograph and oscilloscope are the most commonly used tools in the analysis of servo systems. If the indicating instrument could be used, it would eliminate analysis of oscillograms."
"During the 13 years that the 287.5-kv transmission lines from Hoover Dam to Los Angeles have been in operation many records of lightning performance have been made. This article presents a summary of the data which have been obtained during the period and describes the methods and instruments used for measuring and recording."
"THE PACIFIC SOUTHWEST area includes all of the interconnected electric systems in Arizona, California, and southern Nevada. The area, 380,000 square miles, is 12.5 per cent of the land area, contains 7.7 per cent of the estimated population, and uses 10 per cent of the energy generated by central stations in the United States. The area is generally arid and because of uninhabited mountain and desert areas, the electrical service areas of the three states cover less than one-fifth of the land area."
"Much has been written recently concerning the theory and the operating characteristics of individual dynamoelectric amplifiers. This article serves to collect in one place the basic theoretical principles of all types of dynamoelectric amplifiers, describes some of the salient features of all these devices, and suggests means of predicting their performance."
"These are authors' digests of most of the conference papers presented at the AIEE Summer and Pacific General Meeting, Pasadena, Calif., June 12–16, 1950. These papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE Transactions or AIEE Proceedings, nor are they available from the Institute."
"The AIEE Fall General Meeting for 1950 will be held in Oklahoma City, Okla., at the Skirvin Hotel from Monday, October 23, to Friday, October 27."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"The group of representatives of large engineering societies, invited by Engineers Joint Council to explore the question of organization for increased unity of the engineering profession, had its second meeting on March 31. 1950."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"CLASSICAL electrical engineering views matter from the standpoint of Maxwell's theory as a means of storing electric and magnetic energy and of dissipating such energy by conduction and other irreversible processes. It considers, for any given material, these properties of storage and dissipation as fixed quantities which may be tabulated under the headings: permittivity (dielectric constant), permeability, and conductivity. After obtaining such tables and setting aside a special corner for dielectrics, defined as nonconductors of electricity,1 the engineer dismisses the subject of materials and returns into his private world of field vectors and equivalent circuits."
"HIGH-VOLT AGE transmission systems serving the western part of the United States are characterized by longer line sections between substations than is common in the East where population density is greater. Relaying of power systems of the Bureau of Reclamation, United States Department of the Interior, presents, therefore, somewhat different problems than usual."
"STEADILY increasing difficulties have marked the expansion of the reservation systems of railroads and air lines over the past two decades. This may in large part be due to the greater number of people traveling today, to the increased speed of the vehicles, and perhaps also to the efforts that the carriers have made in supplying a large variety of accommodations. A large railroad can provide 12 different types of space such as berths, club chairs, roomettes, and so forth, all of which must be recorded in the reservation department to assure that every available seat is sold and at the same time to prevent duplicate selling that would irritate to the passenger and endanger good public relations."
"MERCURY-ARC rectifier equipment of high capacity and voltage rating and special design for tube-testing service has been installed in the RCA-Victor Company Advanced Development Laboratory at Lancaster, Pa. The equipment provides 2,000 kw at 12,000 volts d-c with two rectifier units connected in parallel, and 2,000 wk at 24,000 volts d-c with the two units in series. In each case, the d-c windings of the rectifier transformers are displaced 30 electrical degrees so as to achieve, effectively, 12-phase rectification. The basic power circuit of the installation is shown in Figure 1."
"THE INVESTIGATION of the cause of the rare failures of nonleaded rubber-insulated cables buried directly in the ground was reported in an earlier paper.1 These failures were characterized by localized regions of very low insulation resistance. The absorbed water content was no greater than in adjacent regions of high insulation resistance, and the physical properties were usually normal. Drying the failed insulation raised the resistance several decades, but brief exposure to moisture restored the low values. It was suspected that these failures had been caused by soil microorganisms."
"PRIOR TO THE advent of common television usage, pictures in the home became popular by the use of home-movie projectors. By a process of evolution the 3- by 4-foot home-movie picture size became an accepted one. These facts would indicate a preference for picture sizes of this order, at least for some types of picture presentations."
"THE NATURAL waterfalls in Sweden are often very extended in length. The utilized head in the power stations is frequently less than 150 feet and only in rare cases exceeds 300 feet. The mean flow of water in the bigger rivers amounts to about 10,000 cubic feet per second at the mouth. Kaplan turbines have been used for heads up to 110 feet; for greater heads, Francis turbines are used."
"ELECTRIC CURRENTS which are just perceptible are important, as it is essential that the user not get the sensation of electric shock when using electric appliances, hand tools, or other electric equipment.1 Shocks produced by currents near the threshold of perception are generally considered annoying rather than dangerous; however, when such shocks are unexpected, they are startling, and serious accident may result as a secondary effect. For example, an unexpected electric shock, far too feeble to cause injury due to direct effects of the electric current, might produce a sudden movement and cause subsequent contact with a dangerous mechanism, or it might cause loss of balance with an ensuing fall which might cause painful injury."
"TRENDS in power-system design require installations of large power transformers in thickly populated areas. These trends have been brought about by increasing capacities of existing stations and by transforming power closer to the ultimate customer than has been done in the past.1 As a result, power-transformer manufacturers have been asked to build low-noise-level designs for these installations. Simultaneous with these new requirements being placed on them, manufacturers have been developing new materials, processes, and material applications; and to advance the art, certain of these improvements are being incorporated in designs. Themanufacturer then finds himself faced with the problem of designing for low noise levels and, at the same time, improving his product in quality, cost, and dependability. The way in whichthese two parts of the problem are related will be shown in this article."
"The microwave gas discharge has presented a new field for physical exploration. The r e sults of some of these experiments are given here; processes active in a microwave gas discharge are discussed, and a formula is developed for the complex conductivity of the discharge from the known properties of electrons and ions."
"ELECTRONIC digital counters have satisfactorily solved the problem of counting at speeds which are too great for mechanical or electromagnetic counters. These high-speed counters usually employ chains of trigger devices such as hot-cathode multivibrators1 or cold-cathode glow discharge tubes.2 Coupling between elements in the chain is arranged so that the triggering of one element prepares or primes the next succeeding element. This article describes a new principle of construction which permits coupling from one cold cathode to the next within a single common tube envelope, thereby considerably simplifying the counting tube and circuit. Only one load resistor and three tube-connection terminals are required, regardless of the number of counting stages, although additional elements are usually required in order to obtain information by other than visual means.3"
"DURING recent years the so-called steady-state or frequency response method of evaluating the performance of linear servomechanisms has gained increasing favor over transient response methods.3 The essential reason for this is the relative ease of inferring the frequency response of a complicated system from the frequency responses of its components."
"A FERROMAGNETIC crystal is composed of small regions or domains which are magnetized to saturation. When the crystal is unmagnetized the domains are arranged so that the net magnetization is zero. The application of a magnetic field changes the domain structure. The domains that are favorably oriented with respect to the applied field grow at the expense of those less favorably oriented, so that the net magnetization is no longer zero."
"A NECESSARY condition for the initiation of an electric discharge between two electrodes immersed in a gas is that the voltage difference between the electrodes be greater than a critical value called the breakdown voltage. The nature and pressure of the gas and the shape, separation, and nature of the electrodes determine this critical value. When a gas tube breaks down or fires, a positiveion space charge is formed so that electrons can flow in great quantities without the limitations of mutual repulsion. A self-sustaining discharge in a cold-cathode tube requires, in addition, a positiveion current sufficiently heavy to provide for electron emission from the negative electrode or cathode."
"THE CURRENT transductor is one of the great family of apparatus known variously as magnetic amplifiers, saturable core reactors, or transductors. These devices are a-c inductors, whose effective inductance can be changed by superimposing a d-c magnetomotive force. The current transductor is a transductor specially designed and calibrated so that the alternating current flowing in the a-c circuit is a direct measure of the direct current which is flowing in the d-c circuit. The transductor is meant to be used for the measurement of the direct current."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The 1950 A I E E Middle Eastern District Meeting will be held in Baltimore, Md., October 3–5, with headquarters in the Lord Baltimore Hotel. In addition to the comprehensive technical program, a stag smoker, cabaret dance, inspection trips, and a special ladies' program have been arranged by the committee."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"The Sixth Annual National Electronics Conference will be held at the Edgewater Beach Hotel in Chicago, Ill., on September 25, 26, and 27, 1950. The conference is sponsored by the Illinois Institute of Technology, Northwestern University, the University of Illinois, AIEE, and the Institute of Radio Engineers, with the University of Wisconsin and the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers participating."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"While the professional provisions of the Taft-Hartley Act have aided considerably in protecting the professional status of employed engineers, in certain instances continuing pressure has been brought to bear on them to seek their economic advancement through unionization rather than through professional means. One of the problems confronting the engineer employee has been the lack of a clear-cut statement regarding his professional responsibilities in relation to union affiliation. The National Society of Professional Engineers, believing that a definite statement of principles on this question would be desirable, formulated such a statement which was adopted by the Board of Directors of that society in June 1950."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of in terest to readers of “ Electrical Engineering. ”All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"DURING the year 1949, important engineering developments have taken place in each of five broad fields of Institute activity: communication, science and electronics, power, general applications, and industry. In the field of communication, the television network has been extended and more than 100 television stations soon will be in operation. Development of color television has continued and two basically different systems have been demonstrated before the Federal Communications Commission with a third system scheduled for demonstration early in 1950. In the field of science and electronics, the application of computing devices of all sizes to business procedures has received increased attention. The emergence of the concept of “information theory” as a means of extending and rationalizing the limiting boundaries of measurement and communication by the use of statistical theory marks a milestone of progress. In the field of power, an all-time peak of installed generating capacity totalling 6,929,201 kw during the year has been achieved. The General Electric Company opened a new high-voltage laboratory at Pittsfield with many refinements for the controlled testing of high-voltage apparatus under various conditions. Research and investigation of power transmission at higher voltages continues at the Tidd experimental station which is a co-operative effort of the American Gas and Electric Service Corporation, and eight other electrical manufacturers. In the field of industry, new arc and resistance welding techniques have found wide-scale adoption. More precise and compact controls have been developed and applied to a variety of specialized machines. In the field of general applications, definite trends in domestic appliances have been recorded and many significant developments in the production and application of light have taken place, as well as noteworthy experiments in railway motive power. Some of these 1949 engineering developments and a few others are reviewed by the AIEE technical committees."
"A standard table model black-and-white television receiver which can also be used for reception of Columbia Broadcasting System color signals by means of the color converter. This set, which also has a scanning adapter, can receive black-and-white signals, and when the converter is slid into place between the face of the picture tube and the viewer, it will reproduce signals in full color."
"TWO BASIC types of devices for simulating arbitrary functions of a dependent variable have been developed for use with the California Institute of Technology Electric Analog Computer. One of these is a resistance device whose resistance is a function of current. It is based upon the use of germanium diode circuits which switch resistances in or out either to increase or decrease the resistance as the current increases. The other nonlinear device employs the principle of a cathode-ray tube-template-photo cell servo system which makes the cathode-ray beam follow a prescribed curve and thereby produce a voltage which is the arbitrary function of another voltage. Both of these devices can be used to represent perfectly general nonlinear impedances or amplification factors."
"THE INCREASING USE of sunlamps by the public and the interest shown in sun tan evidenced a need for a compact, rugged, portable erythemal intensity meter. The intention was not to develop a meter of laboratory precision, but to furnish a reasonable accurate commercial tool that could be used in the field as a guide to relative intensities in the 2,800- to 3,200-Angstrom unit band."
"AS A RESULT of regulations recently adopted by the Federal Communications Commission which govern radiation from radio-frequency heating equipment, there has arisen a need for information on practical methods of dealing with this problem. In order to make information available to industry, committees of the AIEE and the Institute of Radio Engineers have undertaken an investigation of good engineering practices which will reduce radiation from such apparatus. This article summarizes the work of these committees."
"With the increasing need in industry for engineers with a comprehensive knowledge of their field, it is important that the colleges provide senior engineering courses which will help to bridge the gap between college experience and industrial practice. Such courses should emphasize practical engineering problems, the solution of which will require the making of assumptions involving the various separate fields of engineering."
"MOISTURE and oxygen in varying amounts are the ever-present enemies to the satisfactory operation of liquid-immersed transformers. The life of the oil and insulation in a transformer cannot be accurately determined by laboratory tests since it is difficult, if not impossible, to make such tests so that they duplicate operating conditions."
"SINCE 1942 the electrical industry has had an AIEE operating guide for oil-immersed transformers. For proper application to a transformer system it is necessary first to consider whether it is economical to load transformers to the levels recommended by this operating guide."
"PRIOR TO THE LAST WAR the general public was becoming noise conscious and was insistent that all types of objectionable noises be eliminated. Power companies in the metropolitan area were mostly concerned with the noise emitted by transformers of the distribution size since, in a number of cases, these transformers were installed in inhabited areas. The public had not yet begun to complain of the noise emitted by induction equipment installed in the generating station. In many cases, the generating stations and the larger substations still had room for expansion so that housing was fairly remote from them. In other cases, these stations were located in nonresidential neighborhoods."
"IT IS AN OLD NOTION that high coercivity in ferromagnetic materials is associated with high internal stresses. Cold working, quench hardening, and precipitation hardening have been known or suspected sources of residual stresses and they have been generally found to be responsible for increased coercive force. However, no quantitative correlation has yet been possible since the stresses or their counterpart, the reaction strains, have only recently been identified in a specific manner."
"THE STANDARDIZATION of reactor ratings will allow the physical properties and electrical characteristics of reactors to be standardized into classes of preferred ratings. Industry-wide acceptance of the preferred ratings should eventually result in reduced costs, shorter delivery time, and better use of materials as tests and service on the same size of reactor will point to improvements. The use of large steps between preferred ratings will hasten the realization of these benefits."
"THIS ARTICLE summarizes the first of a series of studies oh the physical and mathematical analysis of the steady-state stability of conventional and long-distance transmission systems as they are influenced by the presence of voltage regulators and other control devices. As a first step attention is restricted to the transmission line as a component part of the over-all system and practical equivalent circuits are established for its representation, when the connected synchronous machines oscillate. For that purpose the basic equations of stationary networks are set up when viewed from uniformly rotating reference frames. An isolated inductor and capacitor, then a transformer, and finally a transmission line are used as examples. Their equations viewed from a simultaneously rotating and oscillating reference frame are given in reference 1."
"ALL ANIMALS in the phylogenetic scale above those which have tissues but no organs, which is to say that all animals above and including the most primitive worms, have developed some sort of mechanism that both produces and operates on electricity. In almost all animals this is a purely internal phenomenon, the nervous system, by means of which the creature sees, hears, feels, tastes, smells, moves, and thinks — if it thinks at all. In a few very special animals, there has been developed a modification of this in that some of the electricity produced can be released outside the body rather than being confined within it. All of these animals are fishes, which is not surprising, for it would not do a terrestrial animal, a bird or insect, for instance, much good to have electricity which can be released outside the body when there is no medium to conduct it. Why only some fishes have produced this peculiar mechanism, or why any of them did so, is something about which we can only conjecture, but it remains that a number of fishes, some extinct and some living at present, have developed it."
"ELECTROSTATIC SHIELDING has long been recognized as an effective means of controlling the impulse voltage distribution in transformer windings. Under certain conditions the same, or a better, result can be achieved by the use of Thyrite.∗ Developed as a material for lightning arresters, Thyrite is characterized by its nonlinear resistance; it passes a current proportional to a relatively high exponent of the applied voltage. Thyrite is a ceramic-bonded inorganic resistance material manufactured in the form of disks."
"AS THE WATER power resources in Sweden are located in the northern provinces, while the consumption is concentrated in the southern parts, the high-voltage network is characterized by large transmission distances. In the existing 220-kv network the average transmission distance is 300 miles and when all hydroelectric power has been developed the distance will have been increased to about 450 miles. This is the main reason why it has been found economical to introduce the higher transmission voltage of 380 kv."
"THE INVENTION of the transistor by J. Bardeen and W. H. Brattain1–3 has given great stimulus to research on the interaction of holes and electrons in semiconductors. The techniques for investigating the behavior of holes in n-type germanium were devised in part to aid in analyzing the emitter current in transistors. The early experiments suggested that the hole flow from the emitter to the collector took place in a surface layer.1,2 The possibility that transistors could also be produced by hole flow directly through n-type material was proposed in connection with the p-n-p transistor.4 Quite independently, J. N. Shive5 obtained evidence for hole flow through the body of n-type germanium by making a transistor with points on opposite sides of a thin germanium specimen. Such hole flow is also involved in the coaxial transistor of W. E. Kock and R. L. Wallace.6 Further evidence for hole injection into the body of n-type germanium under conditions of high fields was obtained by E. J. Ryder.7"
"BECAUSE of conditions beyond the control of the electric power industry during and following the recent war years, the margin of capacity available for reserve has dropped to values generally considered to be below the standard that will assure continuity of service under reasonably forseeable contingencies. With the addition of some 4,141,500 kw of net name-plate capacity during 1948, the year-end margin of reserve was only 5 per cent of the annual peak demand. The planned addition of some 6,700,000 kw of capacity during 1949 will increase the margin of reserve to an estimated value of but 8 per cent, and with planned capacity additions for succeeding years it is not expected that a satisfactory margin of reserve, which in most areas is now considered to be around 15 per cent, will be available until the end of 1951."
"These are authors' digests of most of the papers presented at the second annual Conference on Electronic Instrumentation in Nucleonics and Medicine, sponsored jointly by the AIEE and the Institute of Radio Engineers, New York, N. Y., October 31, November 1–2, 1949. The papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE Transactions or AIEE Proceedings, nor are they available from the Institute. However, published proceedings of the conference will be obtainable in the near future through R. S. Gardner, AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y. The price will be $3.50 to both members and nonmembers."
"The AIEE Winter General Meeting to be held at the Hotel Statler in New York, N. Y., January 30-February 3, 1950, will feature a broad program of professional and social activities. The technical program, by far the largest in the history of the Institute, is a result of the effort of the 39 technical committees in the five technical groups of the Institute. A group of inspection trips also has been arranged closely allied with the subject matter of the technical program."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Harry S. Rogers, President, The Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn, Brooklyn, N. Y., was elected Chairman of the Engineer's Council for Professional Development, a conference body of engineering organizations of the United States and Canada, at its 17th Annual Meeting held at the Edgewater Beach Hotel, Chicago, Ill., October 28–29, 1949."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Locke RM Handylog. Repetitive Manufacture (RM) is a program designed to help reduce the installed cost per kilowatt on line and station equipment. The second edition of the Locke RM Handylog describes, in 99 pages, up to 95 per cent of the items of power insulators, suspension hardware and pole line hardware most frequently used on power transmission, distribution lines, and stations. Copies of the spiral-bound catalog are available upon request to Locke Inc., P. O. Box 57, Baltimore 3, Md."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"THE MOST ENJOYABLE part of being President of the Institute is the round of Section visits which is by tradition one of the President's duties. Everywhere he goes he is most cordially received. The hospitality of the Sections is apparently limited only by the adherence of the President to his schedule. He has the opportunity to meet old friends and to make new ones. He has the privilege of informing the members about the institute's work and its problems. He gains new and broader viewpoints on the organization's activities and senses the needs and aspirations of the membership. He receives inspiration from the interest and enthusiasm of the Section officers. If he takes the relatively little additional time required to travel by automobile he sees the country at close range and enjoys Nature in all her moods. In a very real sense, his tours are the equivalent of a series of vacations."
"THERE HAS BEEN a steady increase in specialized branches of engineering during recent years. Some of these are simply specializations in functional engineering, such as welding engineering, tool and die engineering, petroleum engineering, and refinery engineering. Others are associated more closely with the basic sciences, as, for example, geological engineering or engineering physics. Still others tend toward the border line of business, such as administrative engineering or general engineering."
"WITH a generating capacity considerably in excess of its local busload, the Sherman Creek generating station of the New York Consolidated Edison Company has to depend on one high-capacity tie to connect it with the rest of the system. Use of the major portion of the plant's capacity, therefore, depends on this tie feeder to transmit all of the plant's output that is not needed for the local bus load. At certain times the plant generates ten times the local load."
"THE STEADILY INCREASING USE of electrical components at high voltages and altitudes has presented a problem in the design of bushings to meet the requirements of being corona- or radio-interference-free in the range of 10,000 volts and altitudes of 50,000 feet."
"WHEN a d-c series motor is supplied with a voltage which is proportional to its current, its speed is essentially constant for various values of output power. The operating speed of the motor is directly proportional to the rate of change of this voltage with respect to the current."
"THE broad features of the operation of the L-1 coaxial system for the transmission of television have been public for more than a year,1 but thus far the factors influencing the design of the coaxial television terminals and a detailed discussion of the equipment now in service in the Bell Systems' television network have not been published. The television terminals here described were placed into network service in 1947, but in basic form are similar to experimental models developed prior to the war and used in early television transmission studies over the coaxial cable.2,3"
"THE METHODS of Heaviside for solving differential equations commonly arising in problems of engineering and physics, are of great value and are very widely used. However, Heaviside did not fully justify his methods, saying that “reservations should be learned by experience.” Mathematicians, therefore, have generally preferred to approach the same goals by use of the Laplace transformation. However, the recent work of the French mathematician, Laurent Schwartz, provides justification of Heaviside's methods, and opens the way to their wider use."
"THE TEMPERATURE LIMIT under short-circuit conditions has been 250 degrees centigrade for power transformers for many years. This temperature has been calculated assuming that all of the heat during the short circuit has been stored in the copper. There is good reason to believe that a temperature of 250 degrees centigrade is seldom reached under short circuit; first, because some of the heat is conducted to the turn insulation; second, full voltage is not maintained unless the kilovolt-ampere capacity of the transformer is small in comparison with the source of power; and third, the protective relay usually comes into action before the time limit is reached."
"THE HISTORY of power transmission in northern and central California and the interconnection of hydroelectric and steam-electric plants dates back to just before the turn of the century. Development of water power was given impetus by the earlier uses of water in mining operations. The availability of petroleum fuels encouraged construction of steam plants in areas lacking in hydro power, or where it was needed for purposes of assuring the power supply in low water periods, or in case of interruption of long transmission circuits."
"IN RECENT years the introduction of high-pressure fluid-filled cable systems for power transmission and the trend toward higher voltages have posed new problems in the design and construction of cable joints and potheads. Certain laboratory techniques have contributed much to the solution of these problems by providing the designer with accurate information and the producer with dependable test methods."
"AMAGNETIC oscillograph, with auxiliary equipment, has been found useful at the Grand Coulee Power Plant, Columbia Basin Project, for obtaining information about operating characteristics of hydroelectric units which cannot be obtained from the ordinary indicating and recording instruments. Quantities recorded include mechanical movement, hydraulic pressure, bearing loads, and turbine vibration and noise."
"IN MODERN AIRCRAFT the increasing use of electric equipment has increased the dependence of the aircraft on the electric system. To improve the reliability of this system additional fault protection is necessary."
"WHEN the out-of-step condition develops on a power system, the resulting disturbance may result in a major loss of load. It is, therefore, desirable to be able to recognize such a condition promptly and to take corrective measures to minimize the disturbance. This article describes a new relay equipment which is capable of recognizing an out-of-step condition before the completion of the first slip cycle, whereas earlier forms of out-of-step relays did not usually give an indication until after the third slip cycle."
"AUTOMATIC RECLOSING of circuit breakers in high-voltage transmission lines can increase system transient stability limits provided reclosure can be accomplished rapidly. Minimum time of reclosure is dependent largely on the rate of dielectric recovery of the ionized fault-arc path. Data on deionization times of fault-arc paths have been obtained from tests on a 115-kv system."
"IN HIS Inaugural Address in January 1949, President Truman declared that the United States, in co-operation with the United Nations and with other governments, should attempt to pool the technical knowledge and skills of the more advanced countries to stimulate the progress of the underdeveloped countries. Conceived as a “bold new program” to provide “triumphant action … against the hunger, misery and despair” for the world's free people, it has been very widely commented upon and discussed as the “Point Four” program."
"THE LOCATION of high-voltage power line faults has received considerable attention during the postwar years. Three systems of locating faults by echo-ranging means have been covered in previous papers.1,2"
"DURING the past 20 years the carrier system of the Pacific Gas and Electric Company has advanced from two simple carrier circuits serving a total of seven terminals to the present system consisting of some 45 circuits and nearly 100 terminals. The system includes relay carriers, telemetering, and remote alarm systems. Some installations employ simple amplitude modulation, other installations transmit only one side band, while others employ frequency modulation."
"MAGNETIC HEATING of suspension and strain clamps has received increased design consideration because of higher transmission line currents. The temperature rise of conductors with sustained load currents of several hundred amperes may be excessive inside all-ferrous clamps. At these currents, a decrease in clamp magnetic power loss to reduce temperature rise may justify, economically, the purchase of more expensive nonmagnetic clamps."
"THE TRENDS and amount of elecric power use and cost at bituminous coal mines are of interest to the executive, the operating man, and the engineer alike. A study of the data based on a single year, or even a few years, could result in misleading conclusions; but the data from over 400 representative mines for the past 26 years make it possible to determine the trends quite accurately. These trends, illustrated by graphs and tables, are discussed in this article."
"Many of the independent telephone companies in the United States need an economical means of obtaining short-distance carrier circuits. The 3-channel stackable system, while coordinating with other systems of conventional channel allocation, may be installed as service demand requires, one channel at a time, each channel independent of the others."
"INSULATION systems for small rotating machines largely have been designed by empirically applying past experience of the industry. In general, very high factors of safety are employed and exact design of the insulation for the stresses involved have not been important."
"THE ELECTRIC EEL, Electrophorus electricus, delivers the most powerful electric discharge of any electric fish. In addition, it breathes air and can therefore be kept out of water for long periods of time. For these reasons it has proved ideally suitable for the pursuing study of “animal” electricity."
"DO LIGHTNING STROKES represent a danger to airplanes? To determine this possibility was the object of a number of investigations made in collaboration with the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics under the direction of Dr. K. B. McEachron between 1938 and 1942."
"MISSION SUBSTATION, built by the Pacific Gas and Electric Company at Eighth and Mission Streets in downtown San Francisco, is a subtransmission station receiving power at 110 kv and distributing it at 12 kv. It will serve as a source of additional energy to increase capacity and relieve overloaded conditions in the downtown area. Within the building are two 35,000-kva 110/12-kv 3-phase forced oil-, forced air-cooled transformers; a 110-kv transmission ring bus with four 110-kv 800-ampere 5-cycle oil circuit breakers with an interrupting rating of 3,500,000 kva; one section of 12-kv subtransmission bus of the double-circuit-breaker type containing 15-kv, 1,200- and 3,000-ampere air-blast circuit breakers with an interrupting rating of 1,000,000 kva; reactors and cable terminal cells; three sections of 12-kv distribution bus of the main bus transfer bus arrangement containing 15-kv 1,200- and 2,000-ampere magnetic blow-out air circuit breakers with an interrupting rating of 500,000 kva; and thirteen 563-kva ±7 1/2 per cent step-type feeder regulators. Ultimately there will be two 35,000- and two 50,000-kva transformers, seven 110-kv oil circuit breakers in the ring bus, two sections of the 12-kv subtransmission bus, six sections of 12-kv distribution bus, and 24 feeders with step-type regulators. See Figure 1 for the general disposition of the electric equipment."
"FORMATION of ice on aircraft flight surfaces is an occurrence which is of vital concern to any pilot. It is imperative that aircraft be equipped with a satisfactory ice removal system to permit flying in adverse weather conditions. The continued search for satisfactory ice removal systems has entered the electrical field."
"THE Du Mont Acorn Series Transmitter Equipment is designed to fulfill the requirements of television stations intended for local coverage and also to be used as the basic unit for a station owner who is desirous of starting out on a small scale and increasing his power output through addition of a 5-kw amplifier. It also makes an ideal stand-by transmitter. To cover all the low- and high-frequency channels, it was necessary to make four different transmitters: high- and low-band aural and high- and low-band visual units. The aural transmitter has a power output of 250 watts, and the visual output is 500 watts peak."
"THE METHODS of analysis and synthesis of linear servomechanism loops have been developed to the point where they have become a common and useful tool. Comparable advances have not been made in the case of relay-type control although the latter is of great importance in many engineering fields. The reason for this failure is that the differential equations governing a relay-controlled system are nonlinear in nature and cannot be solved by conventional means. Nevertheless, it is possible to analyze such a system by accepting something less than a finite analytic expression for the solution of the governing differential equation. Application of Laplace transform theory to this problem yields the response expressed as a series of terms from which the system behavior may be found. The information obtainable in this manner indicates whether the system under consideration is stable or unstable and gives relations among the circuit parameters which must hold if the response of the system is periodic. This method is not restricted to cases of intermittently applied constant torque as in previous treatments but is applicable to any controlled object whose unilateral transfer function can be written, as for example a motor, a vacuum-tube circuit, or a complete servomechanism loop."
"THE LARGE a-c electric loads and voltages of airplanes provide such applications for transformers as lighting, instrumentation, control, rectification, and window deicing. Transformer size and weight are determined by the quality of magnetic circuit and temperature limits of the insulation, the a-c frequency being fixed by the aircraft generators. As a transformer designed for a given load is made smaller, the iron and copper must be worked harder; and thus, increased losses and high operating temperatures are the prices to be paid for size reduction."
"PREDICTING commutation is not an exact science, and no one factor will tell the designer whether or not the design will commutate satisfactorily. Many factors, such as reactance voltage, commutating pole dimensions, neutral or clearance zones, magnetic densities, and volts per bar must be considered simultaneously, and, in the end, experience and judgment must be exercised in interpreting the design calculations."
"Modern digital computers are capable of great flexibility. They can be applied to a wide range of problems from the simplest to the most abstruse. This is a description of some of the problems solved successfully by the Bell Laboratories Model V computer."
"Practical demonstrations of electric welding techniques and equipment will supplement the 3-day AIEE Conference on Electric Welding scheduled for April 5–7 at the Rackham Memorial Building in Detroit, Mich. During morning and afternoon technical sessions, papers on arc and resistance welding will be presented, while meetings on two evenings will be devoted to demonstrations by authors and others. This will be the second welding conference to be sponsored by AIEE in co-operation with the American Welding Society and the Industrial Electrical Engineers Society in Detroit. Demonstrations are sponsored by the Detroit Section of the American Welding Society. More than 400 persons attended the first such conference held in December 1948. Papers and discussions were published in consolidated pamphlet form and are still available at $3.50 each from R. S. Gardner, AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y. A similar publication for the second conference may be ordered in advance at the same price."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists various society-based activities and events that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Editor's Note: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEEtechnical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items forthis department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardnerat AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. T."
"The board of examiners at its meeting of December 15, 1949, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objections to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"Outstanding young electrical engineers of the United States in 1949 will be recognized and presented awards by the Eta Kappa Nu Association in New York, N. Y., on January 30, 1950, during the week of the Winter General Meeting of the AIEE. The award winners are: winner — Robert Chase Cheek(M'47),. Central Station Engineer, Westinghouse Electric Corporation, East Pittsburgh, Pa.; honorable mention — Dr. Lester M. Field, Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering, Stanford University; honorable mention — Louis G. Gitzendanner (M '49), Section Engineer, General Engineering and Consulting Laboratory, General Electric Company, Schenectady, N. Y. (Biographies of Mr. Cheek and Mr. Gitzendanner will appear in the March issue of Electrical Engineering.)"
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"SUCH a fast-growing organization as the Institute must always be alert to changes which warrant a change in its method of operation. Among such possibilities is the process of election. Within the past few months perhaps a dozen letters have been written either to the President or to the Secretary inquiring as to the origin of the present election procedure or questioning its desirability. If a dozen persons take the trouble to sit down and write a letter, I assume that many times that number have a real interest in an answer to the question, even though they may not have taken the trouble to put their thoughts in writing. If the answers to this article indicate a desire for a change in the present practices, suitable committees will see to it that Constitutional amendments are submitted to the membership."
"THE CONSTITUTION and Bylaws of the Institute, in establishing the procedure to be followed in choosing our officers, also makes adequate provision for any individual member or group of members to make known their preferences. To the many busy members who do not familiarize themselves with these provisions, the following digest of the applicable sections will be of interest."
"TODAY, more than ever before, business and industry are following the trails blazed by the Daniel Boones and Davey Crocketts of the laboratories. New opportunities are constantly appearing at the frontiers of technological progress. Many of the problems which yesterday imposed limitations on the practical operations of business and industry today have been solved. The chemical formulas and blueprints are being translated into jobs, markets, profits — into well-being for everybody."
"CARTRIDGE FUSES are used principally on a-c circuits, but they do not have interrupting ratings other than may be implied by their having met the 10,000-ampere d-c short-circuit test which forms part of the “Standard for Fuses.”1 The growth and interconnection of many industrial and shipboard circuits, in which fault currents may be considerably greater than 10,000 amperes, has created a demand for fuses with proved adequate interrupting capacity."
"POWER-LINE carrier and associated equipment were recently placed in service by the Sierra Pacific Power Company for the centralized control of part of the system. In planning this centralized control system, consideration was given to the use of telephone-line wires, power-line carrier, and microwave radio to provide the necessary interconnecting channels. Economic considerations led to the selection of power-line carrier."
"USE of the a-c calculating board has become standard practice among power companies in the United States. It is used for the solution of operating problems, planning new additions to systems, and for studying proposed interconnections. It is becoming a major tool in the development of system loss formulas,1 and no doubt will see much service in problems of economic plant loading.2"
"FROM ITS BEGINNING in 1893, the Southern California Edison Company has grown to a 1,750,000-kw capacity system. This expansion is the direct result of population growth in southern California. Population approximately doubled during each decade except during that from 1930 to 1940. This rapid growth of population is due to immigration and was but temporarily retarded by the depression of the 1930's. Energy use and demand in the service area of the company are growing at an even faster rate due to increasing use of electric power per capita."
"A LARGE proton-synchrotron (bevatron) requires the magnet current to build up rather slowly to a maximum value. To save the energy stored in the magnetic field and restart the cycle in a short time, the magnet current must be forced to zero by a counter voltage. The acceleration of particles is accomplished in the current build-up period, and this is the most critical portion of the load cycle."
"IN ORDER TO CONSIDER dielectrics from a molecular point of view, it is necessary to explain the actions of dipoles, which are produced throughout the interior of the dielectric.∗ A dipole is a combination of a positive and negative charge located a short distance apart, as shown in Figure 1. A dipole is characterized by a dipole moment, which is the product of the magnitude of the charge (positive at one end and negative at the other) and the distance between the charges. The electric field at a distance from the dipole resembles the magnetic field of a bar magnet and depends only on the dipole moment, not on the charge or separation independently."
"HIGH PRODUCTION rates demanded by modern sawmills necessitate having a log carriage drive capable of moving the log-supporting carriage back and forth past the saw at an extremely rapid rate — in many mills this rate will be as high as 15 round trips per minute, when cutting a 16-foot log. For years the only prime mover which would meet these high production rates was steam, using the so-called “shotgun” drive or “twin-engine” drive. However, the recently developed amplidyne-controlled electric drive is now a serious competitor of the steam drive wherever high production, ease of control, and efficiency are demanded."
"IN MANY quantities, such as money, equal increments are of equal value regardless of the total amount. In other quantities, the increment is evaluated in relation to the total amount. Physical sensation is one example. According to the Weber-Fechner law, a stimulus which increases in geometric progression produces a sensation which increases in arithmetic progression. This means that the magnitude of the stimulus determines the importance of its increment. For instance, an increment of one foot-candle added to illumination of five foot-candles would noticeably increase visibility. Yet, one foot-candle added to 100 foot-candles would not be perceptible. The eye is equally sensitive to equal percentage differences. A light meter should, therefore, give an equal per cent of reading accuracy at each scale point. An instrument having this distribution has a logarithmic scale. Sound is evaluated on a logarithmic basis expressed in the familiar decibel units."
"THE BUSHING-TYPE current transformer is a device with exceptional simplicity, convenience, reliability, adaptability to the highest voltages, and economy, and yet it has been disappointing in the first requirement of accuracy: accuracy as to the ratio and phase angle of the indicated current, especially to the smaller line currents. For line currents under 1,000 amperes its accuracy diminishes with diminishing current."
"THE CHOICE of a power transformer is governed largely by the characteristics of the system, the precedents set by previous purchases, and the established standards of the industry. Any discussion of the selection of transformers must deal to a considerable extent with standards. Several important features of power transformers, with particular attention paid to the relation between the needs of the operating system and the standardization activities now in progress, will be discussed here."
"A DEPARTURE from the usual design of any part of the electric plant is justified only if substantial gains can be realized in operation, maintenance, safety, or over-all costs. With operation, maintenance, and safety reasonably well accounted for in many excellent designs, the development of new designs admittedly must be directed toward the goal of lower investment and its components of standardized methods, simplified construction, and courage to depart from tradition when judgment dictates."
"ACCIDENTS HAVE OCCURRED within recent years caused by the locking of driving wheels on diesel-electric locomotives. High-speed wheel slip is one cause of locked axles. Hence it is desirable to have some means of protecting a locomotive against wheel slip, wheel lock, motor overspeed, and wheel slide during braking."
"NETWORKS of circuits are replacing the radial type in many places for transmitting and distributing electric power. One of the disadvantages of networking is the complexity of the problems to be solved to determine what changes or additions to a network should be made to obtain the desired operating characteristics at a minimum cost. The conventional type of a-c board has provided engineers with an accurate and speedy tool for the study of complex network problems. Now another type of a-c board using only resistance circuits and no generator or load units has been built by the Portland General Electric Company. It is operating successfully in solving complex network problems accurately and speedily."
"FOR YEARS, a goal of the designer has been to increase the frequency response of vacuum-tube amplifiers. Considerable success has been achieved, with the design of the video amplifiers, in obtaining a frequency response from 30 or 40 cycles up to 4 or 5 megacycles. This is adequate for present-day television video requirements, but amplifiers with greater bandwidth are needed for many applications, such as video amplifiers for improved television, wide-band telephone repeaters, and oscilloscope amplifiers."
"TODAY many factors, including cooling, rating, and number of phases, affect the selection of the main power transformer. The types of transformer cooling now available are: type OA, self-cooled; type OW, water-cooled; type OA/FA, self-cooled/forced-air-cooled; type OA/FA/FA, self-cooled/forced-air-cooled; type FOA, forced-oil-air-cooled; and type FOW, forced-oil-water-cooled. The choice of the method of cooling for a transformer may depend on consideration of load cycle requirements, first cost, losses, reactance, installation cost, maintenance cost, shipping limitation, and other factors."
"FIXED RATES and rising costs of construction and operation have posed a financial problem for many electrical utilities. Because transformers represent 25 to 40 per cent of a utility's expenditure for electric equipment and nearly one-half of this capacity is in large units used for transmission of bulk power, proper selection and application of large power transformers offers one avenue for a substantial reduction in the total system investment."
"THE ADVENT of the diesel-electric locomotive and its rapid large-scale acceptance by the railroads of the United States has brought to the fore many problems for which solutions must be found. Among the problems related to this tremendous increase in heavy d-c electric traction equipment is that of adequate joints between coil leads and commutator bars in motors subjected to severe operating conditions. This is a problem of long standing in motors operated at high temperatures, but it has become much more acute with the development and use of insulating materials that will withstand more and more heat. The first substantial increase in permissible operating temperatures of such equipment was brought about a number of years ago by the introduction of full Class-B insulation to replace the then standard Class-A, or composite, insulation. This permissible temperature now has been further increased by the acceptance of Class-H (Silicone) insulation as standard in certain types of traction motors."
"UNDERGROUND hydroelectric powerhouses are becoming almost the rule, rather than the exception, for high-head developments in Europe, and even for medium- and low-head developments this type of plant is finding application in a number of instances."
"THE RAPID mechanization of the local telephone plant throughout the Bell System, together with the continuous expansion of subscriber dialing areas, has made necessary the development of an automatic tandem system having many new features not available in former tandem systems. This new system is known as crossbar tandem and is based on the crossbar system introduced in the late 1930's."
"THIS ARTICLE reports corona-loss measurements under desert conditions on 1.25-inch and 1.4-inch Hedernheim (HH) copper conductor and 1.4-inch aluminum-cable steel-reinforced (ACSR) conductor. From studies which have been conducted at Stanford University2,3 and subsequent theoretical analysis,4 it was indicated that 1.4-inch-diameter conductor would operate satisfactorily at 287 kv and that the segmental-type cable was more than sufficient for operation at 287 kv. This diameter initially had been established as a result of certain studies conducted on stranded-type cables."
"UNTIL the general adoption of the diesel-electric locomotive within the past 15 years almost all railroad men considered that an electric locomotive was one whose power is generated in a stationary power plant and transmitted to the locomotive by means of a trolley wire or third rail. This limited conception has changed with the growing realization that the most important operating characteristics of diesel-electric locomotives are due to the electrical transmission of power from the prime mover to the wheels, and that nearly all of these same characteristics are to be found in any electric locomotive, such as the trolley- or third-rail-electric, the steam-turbine-electric, the gas-turbine-electric, or the storage-battery-electric locomotive."
"OF all the ramifications of engineering, the limitations of the human are the least understood and considered. In direct contrast research has established basic specifications and limitations for materials used by man. Engineering has made standards using factors for security and tolerance. The term “working load” is often used relative to material things, but expectations for human behavior are not evaluated."
"FOR SEVERAL years following 1941, the author was engaged in the development of radio-frequency induction heating for the flow-brightening of electrolytic tin plate. Lines are in operation today melting the electrolytically deposited tin coating on 30-inch-wide steel strip at speeds of 1,300 feet per minute with a power input of 1,200 kw to the strip. The radio-frequency currents flow in rectangular helical coils around the strip and induce currents in the strip and heat it without contact. The magnetic field and the flux through the coils are directed along the length of the strip and the author chooses to call this method “longitudinal flux induction heating.”"
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Approximately 300 awards for United States citizens to serve as visiting lecturers or to undertake research abroad during the academic year 1951–52 have been announced by the Department of State under the provisions of Public Law 584 (79th Congress), the Fulbright Act."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"WHEN I WAS graduated from high school at the ripe old age of seventeen, I was an educated man. On the practical side, I could repair an electric iron so it would work perfectly, and I could even climb an electric line pole and connect a wire without getting killed. On the literary side, I had written and delivered a valedictory address at my high school graduation exercises, more than half of which was in poetry. From then on, it was only necessary to collect the fruits of this education."
"FAILURE OF AN aircraft engine in flight changes the propeller of that engine from a source of thrust to a parasitic source of drag. Present-day propellers, selected for the efficiency with which they convert tremendous horsepower into thrust with comparatively small blade area, absorb proportionately high horsepower when wind-milling the engine. The propeller used on the Martin model 202 airplane converts a maximum of 2,400 horsepower into thrust at take-off. The same engine and propeller combination exerts a drag equivalent to approximately 220 horsepower when being windmilled at take-off air speed. In contrast, the drag of the feathered propeller is equivalent to 12 horsepower. Thus, it is evident that in the event of an engine failure, in addition to the immediate loss of half the thrust, a windmilling propeller steals approximately 10 per cent of the horsepower available from the remaining engine, reducing the net thrust to approximately 45 per cent of normal. With one propeller producing drag and the other producing thrust, a turning moment exists, tending to turn the airplane in the direction of the faulty engine."
"I GNITRON TUBES have been successfully applied as switching elements to supply current pulses to the magnet coil of particle accelerator equipments. Applications involve current pulses having crest amplitudes of 5 to 30 kiloamperes, durations of 1/120 to 1/1,200 second, repetition rates of 6 to 60 per second, and supply voltages up to 20 kv."
"ANEW relaying system provides complete phase- and ground-distance relaying protection for transmission lines. It features a reduction in the necessary equipment usually applied where three relays are connected to protect against faults involving 2- or 3-phase conductors, and where three relays are connected to protect against single-phase-to-ground faults. The reduction in equipment is achieved by causing the directional starting unit of the ground-distance relay to perform the double duty of detecting faults of a phase nature as well as faults of a ground nature."
"THE INVESTIGATION of the influence of electrodes on breakdown in gases was prompted by the steadily increasing importance of gases at high pressure as the principal insulating medium for high-voltage apparatus. Particularly for Van de Graaff electrostatic generators and other direct forms of particle accelerators compressed-gas insulation has become essential to the attainment of high-energy particles in a compact and economic design.1 It is likely that high-pressure gas insulation will gradually invade the realm of high-power engineering where high-voltage cables and transformers are the most obvious immediate applications."
"Because large increases in electrical usage in the downtown area of San Diego, Calif., began overtaxing the primary radial feeders of the San Diego Gas and Electric Company, it was decided to establish an entirely new substation to feed the area, taking advantage of existing 12-kv tie lines near by. The primary radial feeders were feeding a portion of the area from already heavily loaded substations and a new substation seemed to be a better solution to the problem than to increase facilities in the existing substations, where space was limited, and recopper lengthy radial feeders or install new ones."
"CENTRALIZED control of steam-electric generating units has been a natural and gradual evolution over the years. It has been accelerated by such factors as development of suitable equipment and controls, creation of new plant heat cycles, and rapid growth in the size of the units and of the electrical utility industry. The authors believe that current controversies over centralization of controls are concerned primarily with what shall be included and how centralization is to be accomplished and not so much with the basic idea of centralization."
"MAGNETIZING INRUSH CURRENT experienced when energizing a transformer has always presented a problem in the application of differential relays. The inrush current appears to the differential relay as a fault within the transformer and will cause the relay to operate and trip the transformer circuit breakers incorrectly. This problem is increased with the use of large transformers."
"THE EQUIPMENT DESCRIBED in this article was the result of conclusions reached while contemplating the problem of how best to utilize the 30-kc “Audio” spectrum offered by the Type-FB microwave radio equipment. The market for the radio equipment primarily was to be in the electrical utility field. It was proposed as especially suitable for providing telephone, telemetering, load-frequency control, supervisory control, and similar communication circuits over distances up to about 50 miles. It was recognized that with microwave radio, the terrain would be a control factor in the maximum length of a radio circuit without repeater stations. A need exists for a communication facility of multicircuit capacity for such distances, both because of the growing congestion of the power-line carrier frequency spectrum and because of the increasing difficulty of applying carrier to the shorter power lines."
"THE MANY important military, industrial, and domestic applications of commutator machines make it necessary that designers know the commutating ability of these machines. For machines using commutating poles within their range of effectiveness, the commutation behavior can be forecast with reasonable accuracy. However, where the varying resistance of the brush-to-bar contact is depended upon to control the commutation, that is, resistance commutation, there is a need for fundamental design information on which may be based calculations of commutation performance from circuit data."
"RELAXATION is the lag in the response of a system to change in the forces to which it is subjected.1 It is thus a rather general phenomenon whose existence becomes apparent when its rate is not far from being of the same order of magnitude as that of the change of the applied forces. It may consist, for example, of lag in response to the following conditions: a change of temperature which affects the determination of thermal properties; a change of stress which affects mechanical stretching or viscous flow; or a change of electric field which tends to lower the dielectric constant. The relaxation rate is the rate at which a system comes into equilibrium with its surroundings when such a change occurs. When the relaxation rate is very different from that of the change of the constraining influence, the process involving the relaxation may not be noticed. For example, when a dielectric constant is measured at a frequency which is very low or very high in comparison with the dielectric relaxation rate, no loss of energy is observed."
"This article describes a method of computing the asynchronous transmission capacity of a motor, the maximum output which the motor is capable of developing when connected to a given point in a given power supply system."
"IT IS DESIRABLE that the water discharged through the turbine of a hydroelectric unit be measured accurately under various conditions of loading, so that basic data may be obtained which will permit operating the unit at all times to extract the maximum power from the available water. There are numerous low-head hydroelectric developments which have short intake conduits carrying large quantities of water to the turbines. There is need for an improved method of measuring the water discharged through units in such stations because the precision of some existing and accepted methods is impaired by an intake of short length and some of the methods require the installation of equipment whose cost is often prohibitive. Further, some of the methods can measure turbine discharge only under special conditions which interfere with normal operation of the plant. Turbulence is sometimes another source of difficulty."
"MANY STUDIES have been made recently to determine the performance characteristics of long-distance transmission systems. This particular analysis considered straightaway transmission systems of 600 miles in length, a distance which is representative of transmission now under study and in actual development.1,3 The system characteristics and requirements for economic transmission outlined here may be used to guide the future development of long-distance as well as moderate-distance transmission systems."
"ALL COMPUTING machines and information-processing devices require some type of storage. Analogue computers have information storage scattered through the machine as part of the computing elements. For example, an electronic analogue computer might have a simple resistance-inductance-capacitance computing circuit whose basic storage would be twofold. The instructions for the type of computation would be stored in the interconnections of the resistance, inductance, and capacitance components. The initial conditions and partial and final results would be stored as current and voltage in the components of the computer."
"IMAGINE an instrument which scans rapidly through 50 primary elements in less than five seconds. It has no scale but has 50 bull's-eyes on the front of its case. Suddenly one of these bull's-eyes lights up and a howler sounds. A nearby recorder moves into action. The operator on duty notes the generator involved and presses a button to silence the howler, then leaves to inspect the stator of that generator. The bull's-eye remains lit and the recorder remains active. The temperature is dropping back toward a safe condition because the operator has increased the water flow to the hydrogen cooler. Next the light goes out and the recorder runs down scale and stops."
"INASMUCH AS the American industrial system is based on the fundamental concept of profit, it is understandable that some manufacturers will overlook the safety viewpoint in designing their products. All research is expensive and the product cost can be reduced by not pursuing the principles of safety engineering too thoroughly. Some companies dispense with engineering talent, others are not aware of fundamentals in safe design, and all are anxious to market their product at the earliest possible opportunity."
"THE PROBLEM of designing a lamination and knowing how large to make a given motor is always a troublesome one, considered from a purely theoretical point of view. It is true that design texts make use of a D2L equation, using the diameter and length to fix the volume, if not the proportions, of an armature of a polyphase induction motor. But so few data are given on the factors making up D2L, that the method can hardly be considered reasonably exact.1"
"MEASUREMENT of the thrust of a turbojet engine during flight presents a typical application of analogue techniques for automatic measurement, computation, and actuation. Effective operation of military aircraft requires instrumentation which includes an indication of engine performance. With the introduction of turbojet aircraft came the demand for instrumentation which involves measuring the engine's thrust. However, the components of thrust are not directly measurable during flight. Therefore, thrust must be computed according to the thermodynamic parameters of engine operation."
"THE PROBLEM of determining the voltage change produced by a single-phase load has become one of considerable importance to the utility engineer. One of the principal reasons for this situation is the application of single-phase resistance welding to many new processes. The usual type of single-phase resistance welder requires for its operation large intermittent values of kilovolt-amperes at a low power factor. This type of load will, of course, produce voltage fluctuations on the power system adjacent to the welder. If these variations are severe enough, they may cause objectionable lighting flicker to other customers served from the same portion of the power system. The usual range of permissible voltage variation is from 0.5 to 1.5 volts on a 120-volt base. The actual value is dependent upon the type of welder load — whether cyclic or noncyclic — and if cyclic, upon the frequency of the load application."
"THE DEVELOPMENT of new types of sealed ignitron tubes has made possible rectifier equipment which is capable of delivering high power at moderately high direct voltages. The lack of moving parts, long tube life, and practically unlimited emission of the pool cathode are advantages which provide a high degree of reliability. These factors bring to the high-voltage field the same high efficiency and high grade of performance which is characteristic of the low-voltage industrial rectifier equipments. A 2,500-kw unit and a 7,500-kw unit represent typical designs of 17,000-volt rectifiers. The former employs a 50-ampere sealed ignitron tube and the latter employs a 150-ampere tube. The 6-phase double-way power circuit is employed in both units because it provides better utilization of transformer capacity than other rectifier circuits. The double-way connection requires only three secondary windings on the rectifier transformer and only three high-voltage connections between the transformer and the tubes, thus requiring less insulating material on the a-c side than other power circuits."
"AN INVESTIGATION to determine the practice of operating companies regarding the marking of varmeters has been completed by a subcommittee of the Instruments and Measurements Committee appointed to study this subject."
"THE PROBLEM of locating faults on a power line has long plagued the power industry. It is particularly trouble-some since approximately 90 per cent of all faults are not sustained and hence the location of the fault must be determined on an instantaneous basis. In order to keep a record of the time and location of all faults, a method based on the measurement of the time required for a wave to travel from the fault to a substation appears most practical."
"THIS ANALYSIS is based on core materials whose magnetic property can be approximated by a rectangular flux-density field-intensity curve. The control source is considered of high impedance when alternating currents are practically nonexistent in the control circuit. This condition is encountered in practice in saturable reactors used for the measurement of large directcurrents, and also in the constant-current standard where the d-c control winding is replacedby a permanent magnet."
"OPERATING ECONOMIES are obtained from the use of totally enclosed fan-cooled motors. Power companies employ them outdoors to reduce building costs, and both power companies and industry use them to lower maintenance costs and outages in locations where motor-cooling air might be dirty, dusty, or otherwise unsatisfactory for direct contact with the windings or internal parts of a motor. Where the use of air only as a cooling medium is preferred, the totally enclosed fan-cooled motor with cooling tubes built into the frame finds wide application (see Figure 1)."
"SINGE the introduction of lead-covered telephone cable, there have been many improvements in the methods of applying this protective sheath. However, until recently, the only significant changes in the basic design of the sheath had been in the composition of the alloy used."
"FOR MOTOR APPLICATIONS where the air is contaminated with dust, the totally enclosed motor has proven worth while in reduced maintenance. In the past five years, totally enclosed fan-cooled a-c motors have become available in ratings above 500 horsepower, opening up many applications in powerhouse auxiliaries and mill uses where dirty air is a problem."
"RADIO NOISE INTERFERENCE reduction methods for use in aircraft have not received adequate attention in recent years. Almost complete reliance is placed on equipment covered by military specifications, in spite of the fact that little or no equipment meeting the specifications is available. The work of the radio interference engineer can never be economically eliminated, despite all possible improvements in equipment, and therefore suppression methods must be available."
"WHEN DESIGNING LINEAR amplifier circuits, the designers often find it highly desirable to take advantage of the impedance-matching and phase-inverting properties of transformers. However, these designers sometimes fail to realize that even a well-designed transformer may not be able to pass the required band of frequencies when connected between the available power source and specified load. At other times they may ask for impedance or phase characteristics which are unrealistic or which call for unnecessarily close tolerances."
"Jack, the physicist, has agreed to give a lecture to Alter-Ego and his friends, explaining how electric motors work. Of course, Alter Ego is a most attentive listener. Jack has just described the slide-wire experiment of Figure 1."
"The Winter General Meeting will again be held at the Hotel Statler, New York, N. Y., during the week of January 22–26, 1951; the hotel will be the center of all meeting activities. This change from the Engineering Societies Building has made it possible to schedule as many as eight technical sessions in one period. Last year this resulted in one of our largest meetings, with a total registration of 3,213 and with 57 technical sessions scheduled. It is expected that the meeting this year will exceed these previous attendance figures by a substantial margin."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"By an act approved July 21, 1950 (Public Law 617), the 81st Congress has given formal statutory sanction to a revision of the practical system of electrical units. In large part, the values adopted for these units resulted from research by the National Bureau of Standards and the present legislation was proposed by the Bureau. The changes in the magnitude of the units are small, in no case larger than 1/20 of one per cent, but the new law puts the values on a clear and unambiguous basis which assures the closest practicable agreement between electrical and mechanical units."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submittedin duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions shouldbe supplied for all illustrations"
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"THE INSTITUTE, like any other big family, has its budgetary problems, and these problems affect all of the Institute's operations and the services it is able to give to the rapidly increasing membership. During the past few years your Institute has moved gradually from a condition of being comfortably in the black to a situation where it has become very difficult to keep expenses within income. You will be interested in the Finance Committee's report on pages 1050–51, which shows that, as a result of careful administration, the 1949–50 operations came very close to the balance point. Figure 1 shows the distribution of income and expenditures for the fiscal year ending April 30, 1950, and Table I shows these items calculated on a per-member basis."
"PERHAPS EVERY member of the Institute wonders occasionally about how the Institute's money — or rather, his money — is spent. A study of the financial statements in the Annual Reports of the Board of Directors, published each year in the August issue of Electrical Engineering, gives a detailed picture of the various items of income and expenses. Few members, however, have the time and inclination to analyze these reports carefully. The Finance Committee therefore has undertaken to analyze the report for the fiscal year which ended April 30, 1950, and to reduce it to a form easily digested. The result appears in Table I on page 1050."
"A CARRIER-CONTROLLED RELAY servo system is one in which a carrier voltage is supplied to the system, along with the signal, to control the transmission characteristics of the relay. The most familiar example of carrier-controlled operation is the self-oscillating relay servo, in which the carrier is supplied internally by the self-oscillations. However, the practice of supplying carriers from external generators for this purpose has grown rapidly over the last ten years."
"THE ENGINEER, using the discoveries of pure science, has during the past 50 years revolutionized the home, commerce, communications, manufacturing, farming, and, unfortunately, war also. The engineer is a “doer.” That is, he likes to do things to make the world a better place to live in; to lighten our daily tasks. Why is it then that a profession which has created this new world and given us leisure is so little understood by the public in general? Because all of us, the student, the engineering school, industry, the technical society, and the engineer himself, have failed to meet our full obligations. We have made a dismal failure in dealing with things of the spirit."
"THE STUDY of the possibilities of using 3-dimensional television in conjunction with remotely controlled electric manipulators is part of a long-range development program being undertaken by the Remote Control Engineering Division of the Argonne National Laboratory."
"THE ELECTRIC analogue computer is a device for solving problems involving single-valued nonlinear parameters. Although it was built primarily for the purpose of analyzing magnetic circuits, its application can be extended to cover the solutions of other nonlinear systems. The use of the photo cell as a nonlinear element for representing nonlinear parameters of a system makes the computer relatively simple in design and easy to operate."
"WEIGHT is one of the major factors in aircraft design, and any reliable means of weight reduction must be thoroughly exploited. Substitution of aluminum for copper conductors offers appreciable weight savings, especially in view of the continuing increase in the size and power of aircraft electric systems. The designer of aircraft electric systems is very limited in the amount of weight that he can save. Aside from choosing the lightest components, the only other weight economy that he can control is the cable weight of his system. Since the cable weight of recent military and commercial aircraft is approximately 32 per cent of the total electric system weight, weight reductions of 40 to 100 pounds may be realized by use of aluminum cable."
"RECENTLY REPORTED failures of steel ground strand attributed to vibration fatigue have stimulated new effort toward probing for possible explanations of the underlying reasons for the outbreak. The study of the construction practices followed by many utilities revealed several facts: failures were more frequently reported on the higher strength grades of strand; final tensions in many cases were set at 25 per cent of rated strand breaking strength at 60 degrees Fahrenheit; experience which was gained many years ago showing the necessity of armoring conductors at the support points has not been applied generally in the case of the ground strand."
"FOR THE FIRST TIME a program to provide better home lighting by the use of definite basic lighting recipes has been introduced. By the end of 1951 about 10,000 demonstration homes throughout the country will be in use to show homemakers better home lighting by the use of these recipes and to acquaint them with its benefits, including easier, safer, and faster seeing and greater eye comfort and protection. The lighting recipes used in this program were originated by Eugene W. Commery, illuminating engineer in charge of the General Electric Company's residential lighting activities, and the program is sponsored by the General Electric's Lamp Department, Nela Park, Cleveland, Ohio. The entire program is based on a report developed by the Committee of Residence Lighting of the Illuminating Engineering Society entitled “Functional Visual Activities in the Home and the Location and Extent of Associated Areas to Be Illuminated” which will be published soon."
"THE H420A switch is a newly developed high-performance hermetically sealed 120-volt d-c aircraft limit switch. This switch was specifically designed to carry 3 1/2 kw and to interrupta 1.8-kw motor load, 15 times a second, for duty cycles of 15 seconds each."
"THE CENTRAL problem in understanding the conduction of electricity through gases is that of finding the means by which a body of gas initially containing mainly neutral particles is converted into one with a high density of charged particles and maintained that way. It is the motion of charged particles under the influence of an electric field that constitutes the flow of electricity through a gas, exactly as in a metal conductor. In a metal conductor there is always a copious supply of electrons free to move whenever a field is applied. In the gas there is normally no such supply, only a few electrons and ions caused by the action of cosmic rays. The problem confronting the physicist is to find the mechanisms by which these few electrons and ions can be multiplied by an applied electric field to a much larger number. When such amultiplication has been effected, the gas changes its state from that of an insulator to that of a conductor, and breakdown is said to have occurred."
"EXPOSURE to electric installations and equipment in places of employment in California resulted in injury to 4,851 persons during the ten-year period from 1940 to 1949 inclusive. This number includes 380 fatal injuries; 1 out of every 13 electrical injuries resulted in death."
"SATISFACTORY integral controllers and integrators for use in d-c servo systems and computers now exist. Unfortunately good counterparts do not exist for use in a-c servo systems and computers. Band-pass filters may be used, but they are unsatisfactory if the carrier frequency changes. The usual integral controller consists of a phase-sensitive detector which converts the a-c input signal into a direct voltage. This direct voltage is applied to a d-c integral controller and the output of this controller is remodulated. Often drifts of the detector and modulator of this last system introduce more error than is desirable."
"AN ELECTRIC SYSTEM consisting of two inductance-capacitance loops with negligible resistance, and inductively coupled together, has a dynamic analogue in the form of a freely rolling ball on an elevated surface, an example of which is sketched in Figure 1. The time integrals of the loop currents (q1 and q2) are used as displacements along co-ordinates x1 and x2, with the loop currents themselves analogous to the velocity of the ball along those coordinates. The magnetic field energy becomes analogous to the kinetic energy of the ball if the scales of the co-ordinates are made proportional to the square roots of the corresponding self-inductances, and x1 is inclined with respect to x2 at angle β, the angle whose cosine is the coefficient of coupling."
"SEVERAL PAPERS have been written1–5 describing the differential analyzer and the complex engineering problems which can be studied with it. The range of the analyzer is being extended continuously by the development of special devices which will generate auxiliary functions and assist in the representing of physical detail, thus, in effect, increasing the number of integrators available for the solution of a given problem."
"ALL TOO OFTEN the procedure in connection with the construction of a new electrical building on a college campus includes a point at which the architects present to the electrical engineering department a set of preliminary plans of the proposed building. This is a critical time since at this instant the electrical engineers are being given their first major opportunity to see and discuss the internal arrangements with which they are going to have to live for many years, yet at the same time the architects' ideas of exterior and general building layout have been rather definitely settled. Thereafter, any point at which the electrical engineer's ideas of interior arrangement differ from the architects' ideas of exterior arrangement may lead to a clash, often settled in favor of the architects. Unlike the doctors, the architects cannot bury their mistakes, but neither do they have to live with them!"
"Jack, the physicist, is continuing his lecture to Alter Ego and his friends explaining the principles of electric motors and generators (see Part I, EE, Nov '50, pp 1025–26)."
"THE PRESENCE in many voltage regulator circuits of nonlinear control elements has prevented a complete mathematical treatment of the subject. However, Liapounoff's theory1 ofthe stability of dynamic systems affords a solution to the problem of stability of electric circuits subjected to small displacements from equilibrium."
"CONSIDERABLE DIFFERENCES of opinion and corresponding differences in practice exist about the safe height for vertical terminations of solid-type paper-insulated cables. The limitations are vacuum formation at the top of well-sealed risers, leads stretching at their base, and moisture effects if the potheads are not hermetically sealed."
"COMMUNICATION CHANNELS, for transmitting the various types of intelligence necessary for operation of a power system, are becoming increasingly important to the utility industry because of the trend toward centralized system control. Pilot-wire and power-line carrier channels are already widely used to accommodate the many items of information necessary for efficient system operation. Microwave channels are the most recent addition to the means of communication available for this purpose."
"THE GRAPH-SCOPE is an electronic graph plotter which is designed to provide for the research worker a facility for plotting data which is equal in refinement to those facilities with which he obtains data. In the design of the Graph-Scope four aims have been primary: to provide great flexibility in the finished picture, to reduce the chance for human error, to reduce graph plotting time, and to reduce the eyestrain involved in the usual point plotting on graph paper."
"THE USE of variable-frequency a-c generating systems on aircraft has increased greatly in the last few years. One excitation scheme for these generating systems consists of a d-c generator exciter, built integrally with the alternator, which is controlled by a carbon-pile voltage regulator. Special attention must be given to the design of such an exciter to obtain satisfactory performance over a wide speed range. Figure 1 shows a cross-sectional drawing of a 30-kva 3-phase 0.9-power factor 208/120-volt 400/800-cycles-per-second 4,000/8,000-rpm alternator and its exciter. Satisfactory operation is obtained over the entire speed range with load varying from zero to 150 per cent rated value and with various environmental conditions as are encountered on military aircraft. The voltage-regulating controls for this alternator and exciter are similar to those commonly used for constant-frequency a-c power systems."
"WHEN THE submerged melt welding process was first introduced 15 years ago, one of its most attractive features was the extremely large welding currents that could be used for making heavy welds in one pass. At that time there were a number of automatic welding machines available for arc welding with bare-wire or coated electrode. None of these machines, however, had the capacity to handle the maximum welding currents and rod diameters usable with Unionmelt∗ welding. Consequently it was necessary to design new equipment which could handle currents up to 4,000 amperes and could feed coiled welding rod up to one-half inch in diameter."
"THIS CASE OF operating trouble is both interesting and instructive from a generating station point of view because the graphic record of the electric energy disturbance is complete. The description deals specifically with the in-step and out-of-step relationships of the generator rotor poles to the rotating magnetic poles produced by currents flowing in the stator windings during normal conditions and during the abnormal condition brought about by underexcitation."
"RELATING ALL DIMENSIONS of the 3-phase core transformer (Figure 1) to the leg diameter D, these symbols result:"
"IN A RECENT STUDY1 an analysis has been presented for the determination of the steady-state characteristics of magnetic amplifiers in terms of data of design. The method is to apply Kirchhoff's and Faraday's laws to the electric circuits of the amplifier and to use Ampere's law to relate the magnetic field intensities and currents, expressing the empirical relationship between field intensities and flux densities by means of some convenient analytical expressions."
"These are authors' digests of most of the conference papers presented at the AIEE Fall General Meeting, Oklahoma City, Okla., October 23–27, 1950. These papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE Transactions or AIEE Proceedings, nor are they available from the Institute."
"A LARGE FREQUENCY CHANGER was installed in 1934 at the Safe Harbor Power Station to supply 25-cycle power to the Pennsylvania Railroad. It consists of a 24-pole 3-phase 60-cycle synchronous motor rated at 29,000 kva at 90 per cent power factor solidly coupled to a 10-pole single-phase 25-cycle generator rated 31,250 kva at 80 per cent power factor."
"Plans for the 1951 Winter General Meeting to be held during the week of January 22–26, 1951, are rapidly taking shape. The meeting headquarters are at the Hotel Statler, Seventh Avenue and 33rd Street, New York 1, N. Y."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Editor's Note: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 78, N. T."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Industrial color television now enables doctors and medical students to view surgical operations in parts of the hospital where there is adequate room, comfort, and the opportunity to discuss what is taking place as the operation proceeds. Such a demonstration of Du Mont industrial color television has taken place at St. Clare's Hospital in New York, for the benefit of doctors attending the Twenty-third Graduate Fortnight of the New York Academy of Medicine. Several hundred doctors have televiewed one or more of the latest surgical techniques, thereby learning by seeing what might not otherwise be seen because of the limitations of the amphitheatre system."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The following material on traveling-wave lubes is taken from a book which will be published by Van Nostrand in September, 1950. Substantially the entire contents of the book will be published in this and the three succeeding issues of the Bell System Technical Journal."
"Recent work by C. E. Shannon and others has led to an expression for the maximum rate at which information can be transmitted in the presence of random noise. Here two encoding schemes are described in which the ideal rate is approached when the signal length is increased. Both schemes are based upon drawing random numbers from a normal universe, an idea suggested by Shannon's observation that in an efficient encoding system the typical signal will resemble random noise. In choosing these schemes two requirements were kept in mind: (1) the ideal rate must be approached, and (2) the problem of computing the probability of error must be tractable. Although both schemes meet both requirements, considerable work has been required to put the expression for the probability of error into manageable form."
"This paper bears on the problem of splitting a signal into two parts of like amplitudes but different phases. Constant phase differences are utilized in such circuits as Hartley single sideband modulators. The networks considered here are pairs of constant-resistance phase-shifting networks connected in parallel at one end. The first part of the paper shows how to compute the best approximation to a constant phase difference obtainable over a prescribed frequency range with a network of prescribed complexity. The latter part shows how to design networks producing the best approximation."
"ONE of the most important requisites in all fields of engineering endeavor is knowledge of the strength of materials. The development of testing machines and techniques to study the basic properties of metals, plastics and wood products to withstand breaking forces has been a distinctive achievement during the last half century. All materials, whether they be part of a bridge, a building, a shipping crate, a telephone pole or a crossarm on a telephone pole, break under an excessive stress. To have accurate knowledge of the strength of the millions of crossarms used to carry the regular load of wires, which are frequently subjected to the extra loads of wind and ice, is most important in electrical communication."
"The spectral density is calculated for the electrical resistance when it is linearly coupled to a diffusing medium (particles or heat) undergoing thermally excited fluctuations. Specific forms of the spectral density are given for several types of coupling which arc simple and physically reasonable. The principal objective is the understanding of the frequency dependence of the resistance fluctuations in contacts, rectifying crystals, thin films, etc."
"Audio-Frequency Measurements.1 † W. L. BLACK⋆ and H. H. SCOTT. This paper indicates the theory involved in making measurements of gain, frequency response, distortion, and noise at audio frequencies, with particular emphasis on such measurements made on high-gain systems. There are also discussed techniques of measurement and factors affecting the accuracy of results. This subject is not new art but has not previously been published in correlated form, to the knowledge of the authors."
"The theory of the relation between the current-voltage characteristic of a metal-point contact to n-type germanium and the concentration of holes in the vicinity of the contact is discussed. It is supposed that the hole concentration has been changed from the value corresponding to thermal equilibrium by hole injection from a neighboring contact (as in the transistor), by absorption of light or by application of a magnetic field (Suhl effect). The method of calculation is based on treating separately the characteristics of the barrier layer of the contact and the flow of holes in the body of the germanium. A linear relation between the low-voltage conductance of the contact and the hole concentration is derived and compared with data of Pearson and Suhl. Under conditions of no current flow the contact floats at a potential which bears a simple relation, previously found empirically, with the conductance. When a large reverse voltage is applied the current flow is linearly related to the hole concentration, as has been shown empirically by Haynes. The intrinsic current multiplication factor, α, of the contact can be derived from a knowledge of this relation."
"In Developing microwave relay systems for frequencies around 4000 megacycles, one of the major problems is to provide an amplifier tube which will meet the requirements on gain, power output, and distortion over very wide bands. As the number of repeaters is increased to extend the relay to greater distances, the requirements on individual amplifiers for the system become increasingly severe. A tube developed for this service is the microwave triode B.T.L. 1553, the physical and electrical characteristics of which were briefly described in a previous article.1 In the development of such a tube, both theoretical and experimental factors arc involved; illustration of these factors in some detail is the purpose of the present paper."
"This paper describes a microwave circuit designed for use with the 1553–416A close-spaced triode at 4000 m.c. It presents data on tubes used as amplifiers and modulators and concludes with the results obtained in a multistage amplifier having 90 db gain."
"A Swept frequency oscillator is a useful laboratory tool for testing wide-band circuit components. It permits an oscillographic display of a frequency characteristic, avoiding much of the labor of point-by-point testing at discrete frequencies. There was a particular need in the Bell Telephone Laboratories for a sweeping oscillator to cover the communications band between 3700 and 4200 megacycles to facilitate the testing of components for radio relay repeaters."
"A theoretical analysis of the flow of added current carriers in homogeneous semiconductors is given. The simplifying assumption is made at the outset that trapping effects may be neglected, and the subsequent treatment is intended particularly for application to germanium. In a general formulation, differential equations and boundary-condition relationships in suitable reduced variables and parameters are derived from fundamental equations which take into account the phenomena of drift, diffusion, and recombination. This formulation is specialized so as to apply to the steady state of constant total current in a single cartesian distance coordinate, and properties of solutions which give the electrostatic field and the concentrations and flow densities of the added carriers are discussed. The ratio of hole to electron concentration at thermal equilibrium occurs as parameter. General solutions are given analytically in closed form for the intrinsic semiconductor, for which the ratio is unity, and for some limiting cases as well. Families of numerically obtained solutions dependent on a parameter proportional to total current are given for n-type germanium for the ratio equal to zero. The solutions are utilized in a consideration of simple boundary-value problems concerning a single plane source in an infinite filament."
"A Theoretical Evaluation of the power output of a traveling-wave tube requires a theory of the non-linear behavior of the tube. In this book we have dealt with a linearized theory only. No attempt will be made to develop a non-linear theory. Some results of non-linear theory will be quoted, and some conclusions drawn from experimental work will be presented."
"The author was led to the study given in this paper from a consideration of large scale computing machines in which a large number of operations must be performed without a single error in the end result. This problem of “doing things right” on a large scale is not essentially new; in a telephone central office, for example, a very large number of operations are performed while the errors leading to wrong numbers are kept well under control, though they have not been completely eliminated. This has been achieved, in part, through the use of self-checking circuits. The occasional failure that escapes routine checking is still detected by the customer and will, if it persists, result in customer complaint, while if it is transient it will produce only occasional wrong numbers. At the same time the rest of the central office functions satisfactorily. In a digital computer, on the other hand, a single failure usually means the complete failure, in the sense that if it is detected no more computing can be done until the failure is located and corrected, while if it escapes detection then it invalidates all subsequent operations of the machine. Put in other words, in a telephone central office there are a number of parallel paths which are more or less independent of each other; in a digital machine there is usually a single long path which passes through the same piece of equipment many, many times before the answer is obtained."
"The electro-optic and photoelastic effects in crystals were first investigated by Pöckels,1 who developed a phenomenological theory for these effects and measured the constants for a number of crystals. Since then not much work has been done on the subject till the very large electro-optic effects were discovered in two tetragonal crystals ammonium dihydrogen phosphate (ADP) and potassium dihydrogen phosphate (KDP). With these crystals light modulators can be obtained which work on voltages of 2000 volts or less. Their use has been suggested2 in such equipment as light valves for sound on film recording and in television systems. Furthermore, since the electro-optic effect depends on a change in the dielectric constant with voltage, and the dielectric constant is known to follow the field up to 1010 cycles, it is obvious that this effect can be used to produce very short light pulses which may be of interest for physical investigations and for stroboscope instruments of very high resolution. Hence these crystals renew an interest in the electro-optic effect."
"A SIDE FROM HELICES, the circuits most commonly used in traveling-wave tubes are iterated or filter-type circuits, composed of linear arrays of coupled resonant slots or cavities."
"In the preparation of magnetic materials for practical use it is important to know how to obtain products of the best quality and uniformity. In the scientific study of magnetism the goal is to understand the relation between the structure and composition on the one hand and the magnetic properties on the other. From both standpoints it is necessary to know the principal factors which influence magnetic behavior. These are briefly reviewed here."
"Darken has giwn a phenomenological theory of diffusion in binary alloys based on the assumption that each constituent diffuses inrlcpendcntly relative to a fixed reference frame. It is shown that diffusion via vacant hut lattice sites leads to Darken's equations if it is assumed that the concentration of vacant sites is in thermal equilibrium. Grain boundaries and dislocations may act as Sources and sinks for vacant sites and act to maintain equilibrium. The modilicatiuns required in the equations if the vacant sites arc not in equilibrium arc discussed."
"Under the above title, D. Van Nostrand Company, Inc. will shortly publish the book from which the following article is excerpted. Dr. Southworth is one of the leading authorities on waveguides and was one of the first to foresee the great usefulness that this form of transmission might offer. The editors of the Hell System Technical Journal are grateful for permission to publish here parts of the preface and the historical introduction and chapter 6 in its entirety."
"A General telephone exchange with N subscribers is indicated schematically in Fig. 1. The basic function of an exchange is that of setting up a connection between any pair of subscribers. In operation the exchange must “remember,” in some form, which subscribers are connected together until the corresponding calls are completed. This requires a certain amount of internal memory, depending on the number of subscribers, the maximum calling rate, etc. A number of relations will be derived based on these considerations which give the minimum possible number of relays, crossbar switches or other elements necessary to perform this memory function. Comparison of any proposed design with the minimum requirements obtained from the relations gives a measure of the efficiency in memory utilization of the design."
"Both the relativistic and wave mechanical properties of particles appear to be consistent with a picture in which particles are represented by localized oscillatory disturbances in a mechanical ether of the MacCullagh-Kelvin type. Gyrostatic forces impart to such a medium an elasticity to rotation, such that, for very small velocities, its approximate equations are identical with those of Maxwell for free space. The important results, however, follow from the inherent non-linearity of the complete equations and the time dependence of the elasticity associated with finite displacements. These lead to reflections which permit of a wave of finite energy remaining localized. Because of the non-linearity, the amplitude and energy of a stable mode, as well as the frequency, are determined by the constants of the medium. Such a stable mode is capable of translational motion and so is suitable to represent a particle. The mass assigned to it is derived from its energy by the relativity relation. While this mass is dimensionally the same as that of the medium it is differently related to the energy and so need not conform to the classical laws which the latter is assumed to obey."
"This paper furnishes the basis for a companion one, which discusses the possibility of describing material particles as localized oscillatory disturbances in a mechanical medium. If a medium is to support such disturbances it must reflect a part of the energy of a diverging spherical wave. It is here shown that this property is possessed by a medium, such as that proposed by Kelvin, in which the elastic forces are of gyrostatic origin. This is due to the fact that, for a small constant angular displacement of an element of this medium, the restoring torque, instead of being constant, decreases progressively with time."
"In Chapter VI we have expressed the properties of a circuit in terms of its normal modes of propagation rather than its physical dimensions. In this chapter we shall use this representation in justifying the circuit equation of Chapter II and in adding to it a term to take into account the local fields produced by a-c space charge. Then, a combined circuit and ballistical equation will be obtained, which will be used in the following chapters in deducing various properties of traveling-wave tubes."
"This paper describes coaxial systems used in the Bell System to transmit telephone and television signals. Development of this system was started some time ago, with systems working before the war between New York and Philadelphia and later between Minneapol is, Minnesota and Stevens Point, Wisconsin. Various stages in the prog ress of this development have been described in previous papers and the telephone terminal equipment has been recently described. This paper will outline how the system works a nd discuss some transmission problems, leaving a complete technical description for a number of later papers."
"Color photography is an exacting endeavor. When we see a beautiful and apparently accurate color reproduction on a motion picture screen, we see the product of a long train of precision work. It is work with little tolerance of trial and error; errors can run in too many directions and can appear in too many places to be discovered and overtaken by trial. Economical practice of color photography affords little room for operation by guess or even by estimate. It demands operation by measurement. This measurement must result in quantitative knowledge of the character of the materials in use, of the effects of laboratory handling, and of the nature of the photographic images formed-knowledge sufficiently accurate and comprehensive to insure efficient production of best possible results. The science which specifies most of these measurements, and the ways of making them, is photographic sensitometry."
"The new 13.6-mm Hitex super high-intensity carbon for operation at 170 to 180 amp in condenser-type lamps is described in comparison with the former 170-amp super. Data show that the Hitex super carbon gives the possibility of more light, more economical operation because of longer life and a marked improvement in efficiency of light production. Spectral energy and color data show that the light from the Hitex super has a higher color temperature than from the old super."
"This is a brief description of the Wall 16-Mm Camera Intermittent that lends itself easily to meet the demands for fast film pull-down in television recording cameras. Pull-down time has been cut to .005 sec."
"By combining the techniques and equipment required for motion picture recording of radar PPI (Plan Position Indicator) scopes and television kinescopes, acceptable 24-frames/sec color motion pictures have, for the first time, been obtained from color television kinescopes. This has been accomplished by suitably modifying a professional type 16-mm motion picture camera and adding a specially designed high-speed 25-mm f/0.7 lens."
"The Numbers and the needs of amateur motion picture projectionists make expedient a restatement or recapitulation of the advantages of non-intermittent motion picture projectors. This is thought necessary on account of the want of due appreciation of the useful characteristics of this type of projector, which the literature published on the subject has revealed."
"The need for a special body-cavity camera in clinical photography is described. Problems in cavity photography are discussed, and diagrams show typical lighting methods. There is an explanation of the Intraflex Camera optical system, the continuous through-the-lens finder and the precalculated iris setting."
"It is Some Time since your 16-Mm and 8-Mm Motion Pictures Committee has made a formal report; however, that is no indication of inactivity. For at least the past couple of years, most of the Committee effort, has gone into the development of engineering standards. One of the first projects brought to a successful conclusion by the present Committee was a group of four American Standards establishing dimensions for picture apertures in cameras and projectors, published in the April, 1950, Journal. Now nearing the end of the long, and sometimes rocky, trail leading to approval as an American Standard are proposals relating to a uniform zero point for focusing scales on 16-mm and 8-mm cameras, mounting threads and flange focal distances for camera lenses, A and B windings for 16-mm film raw stock with perforations along one edge, 16-mm motion picture projection reels, splices for 16-mm films for projection and edge numbering of 16-mm film."
"The Last Report of this Committee was presented at the October, 1947, meeting of the Society and published in the March, 1948, Journal. That report told of the survey by the Screen Brightness Committee on 18 theaters of various sizes and locations. That survey brought forth interesting and important indications of theater practice and the need for more extensive study; however, a further survey was postponed until more suitable instruments were available, it having been decided that visual type meters requiring a subjective photometric balance are inherently unsuited to this task."
"The paper considers briefly some system aspects of theater television. The most important single technical problem of theater television remains the method used for large-screen projection. A new system, developed in Switzerland, using a special electromechanical accumulation process is described briefly. It gives projection on full-size screens with ordinary lighting. The system is still in the stage of early development, but has already proven quite promising."
"There is a considerable difference in design among the standard switching systems put out by the three major television manufacturers. General engineering departments of the major networks and many of the independent stations have designed and built their own systems. All studio switching systems should permit the operator to fade to black, lapdissolve and superimpose. Not all will permit more complicated effects such as cutting to a superimposure, or cutting away from a superimposure to a shot on another camera. Not all will permit the operator to preview a superimposure before he makes it. The following article lists the requirements of television switching systems from the operating point of view and describes the operation of the standard models which are in use in television stations today."
"Color temperature as a specification for light sources is inadequate to define any light source for color photography which departs appreciably in energy distribution from the black body. It should probably be restricted to use with tungsten incandescent lamps only. Meters devised to measure color temperature by means of measurements of the relative energy in two wavelength bands are likewise not trustworthy when applied to any but the black-body sources. A “three-point,” rather than a “two-point,” meter is needed for the precise control of photographic exposures. Such a meter should have sensitivity distributions that match those of the three emulsion layers of the color film."
"The so-called “three-strip” method is generally considered to give the best results when taking professional color motion pictures. An objection to this method is that it requires the use of a special camera fitted with a beam-splitter prism. This paper describes work that led to the development of a single multilayer negative film which can be used in any standard motion picture camera. After exposure and before development, the two upper layers are wet-stripped separately onto special transfer supports. Thus the single support of the multilayer film bears three color-sensitive emulsions in the following order: a red-sensitive layer next to the support, an intermediate green-sensitive layer, and an upper blue-sensitive layer. The red- and green-sensitive layers, and the green- and blue-sensitive layers are each separated by interlayers which facilitate stripping of the two upper layers. The film has an over-all thickness about the same as standard motion picture negative film. Its speed is such that good negatives of an open landscape can be exposed at f/8 or even f/11. An experimental stripping machine is described which accurately registers the perforations of the two stripped layers with those of the original film on which remains the red-sensitive layer."
"The Scenetester takes the place of a cinex machine in manufacturing Ansco Color prints. Its primary function is to make it possible for the timer to select for a given color original or dupe the proper color correction filters and printing density. The Scenetester must match the printer or printers it is teamed with for absolute light output, color balance, exposure time and light changes. This paper describes a Bell & Howell Model D printer modified for color printing and a Scenetester which was made for darkroom operation. The Scenetester prints 16 frames simultaneously through 16 different color correction filters and was designed to work with modified Bell & Howell Model D printers."
"Second generation color duplicates on 16-mm film are noted for problems of contrast and color fidelity. These deficiencies have been responsible for the widespread practice of printing from the original. Some experimental techniques and devices for the printing of special key* intermediates which tend to counteract these faults are explained."
"A continuous optical printer for producing highly corrected release prints at rapid printing speeds from 16-mm color originals is being developed and tested by the Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester, N.Y. All information on level and color balance of the printing light for each scene may be stored on the master film and the cuing device eliminates the necessity of notching the film. Also incorporated is a sprocket which automatically accommodates highly shrunk and damaged film inter-cut with fresh originals."
"Some of the limitations and handicaps in illuminating large drive-in theater screens are discussed. The basic requirements for adequate screen lighting are reviewed and a newly developed arc light and projection system meeting those requirements are described."
"The Method of Brunner, Means and Zappert1 for the determination of metol in Ansco Color Positive first developer, A-502, was found by us to give a titration curve with no true inflection point. Instead, there was a region of about 0.5 ml in which the inflection might occur; therefore, the error in the determination may be quite large. By substituting acetic acid for water as solvent for the titration, and 0.1 N sulfuric or perchloric acid in acetic acid for the conventional 0.1 N hydrochloric acid, a better inflection point may be obtained. No changes except those already mentioned were made in the procedure given by Brunner, Means and Zappert."
"It has been pointed out many times that engineering progress depends directly on basic research. Engineering is largely the application of scientific principles to the solution of practical problems. When new basic principles are discovered, engineering skill rapidly transforms these new ideas into things of value to both industry and consumer in the form of better or cheaper products. But when the available fund of basic information has been worked over for twenty years or more, the engineering “advances” are very apt to be reduced to gadgets, fancy knobs, and other trimmings which are of little real value even from a sales standpoint."
"Noise limitations in sound-recording media are well known. With improved media such as magnetic materials, noise limitations imposed by the recording transmission system require consideration. Noise may be internally generated in the system or may be introduced from extraneous sources by electromagnetic coupling, or circuit exposures to interfering fields. Radio and audio frequency disturbances, crosstalk, thermal noise, shot-effect, microphonics, and alternating current hum are some of the interferences considered."
"The vast bulk of information gained during a rocket or guided-missile test firing at Inyokern is obtained photographically. This type of detailed recording requires a large number of specialized photographic instruments of various types. They include cinetheodolites, ribbon-frame cameras, high-speed motion picture cameras, and others. The importance of color in this program is described, together with some of the difficult problems that are encountered when combining color film with the high shutter speeds necessary to stop the motion of fast-moving test objects. Some solutions to these problems of underexposure are mentioned."
"A piece of apparatus is described by means of which it is possible to develop, fix, wash, and dry pictures on 35-mm film in four seconds. Integral with the apparatus is a camera lens with which the pictures are formed and a projection system with which they are projected. Though the particular device has been designed for radar photography, it is believed to have a variety of other uses and applications."
"A brief history pointing to the rapid postwar development of drive-in theaters based on fulfilling important needs of a huge “Forgotten Audience” is given. An outline of some of the unique design features and of the special services made available indicate why drive-in theaters offer an economical and versatile means of recreation, relaxation and general enjoyment for motorists, and a return on capital investment which is an investor's dream. Prerequisites for satisfactory projection and sound as basic requirements for successful drive-in theater construction and management, are reviewed."
"A 16-mm sound motion picture projection system according to U.S. Navy Bureau of Ships Specification CS-P-41A must meet high-quality standards for picture and sound reproduction, while retaining the necessary durability for Navy use. It must provide high light output with good light distribution, long film life, low flutter, low distortion, and good frequency response. A projector designed for this purpose uses a sprocket type intermittent and unit component construction for ease of maintenance. The paper describes the projector mechanisms and amplifier circuits, and states performance results."
"A new series of highly corrected lenses, with focal lengths ranging from 12.7 mm to 100 mm, has been designed for 8-mm and 16-mm cinematography. The speed of some lenses in this series is as high as f/1.5. Some general problems of optical design and of evaluation of lens performance are discussed. Strict criteria are used for appraising the quality of these lenses, which will be introduced on the market under the name of Animar."
"Problems involved in 16-mm color cinematography in the mines are discussed. Details of power supply, distribution, and voltage control are explained. Various photographic techniques necessary to the obtaining of exposure, color quality, and modeling under adverse conditions are illustrated."
"With the expansion of commercial television operation at the close of the war there arose a need for detailed information on the production and use of films in television broadcasting. The Television Committee undertook to meet this need by approaching the problem from two directions."
"Two major points affecting film life in 16-mm and 8-mm projectors are the shape of the film path entering and leaving the sprocket and the shape of the sprocket tooth. The following recommendations, approved by the Society, have been developed to assist the design engineer in specifying these, as well as other dimensions for particular applications."
"The proposed standard which appears on the following pages was prepared by the 16- and 8-Mm Motion Pictures Committee, under the Chairmanship of Mr. Henry Hood. Completely new in appearance, it replaces the previous American Standard for 16-Mm Projections Reels Z22.11-1941 and is being published here in the form of a proposal for ninety days trial and criticism. Engineers or equipment designers are invited to send their comments on the proposal to William H. Deacy, Jr., Staff Engineer at Society Headquarters, and are asked to do so before June 1,1950."
"The Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers is composed of technical representatives from all phases of the industries involved in the reproduction of scenes with motion, many of whom compete most vigorously with one another in the open markets. It is a matter of considerable pride to the Society that such vigorous and sometimes bitter competitors in commercial life find it profitable to meet together under the impartial auspices provided by the technical sessions and the committee activities of the Society. The impartiality of these meeting grounds must never be questioned if the Society is to enjoy the support of all its members, and if it is to grow in accordance with its opportunities."
"The first meeting of the Board of Governors in 1950 was held in New York, January 31, with Earl I. Sponable presiding. As is customary, the agenda was a heavy one and the meeting ran well into the late afternoon. The Board reviewed the Society's accomplishments for the previous twelve months and studied the details of all business operations involved in turning out the Journal test films, of engineering and non-technical committee work, as well as administration of Society membership matters. The resulting year-end fiscal picture was analyzed in detail and together with recommendations of the Officers, Headquarters Staff, and many committees, was used as a basis for planning work to be undertaken in the coming year."
"On April 24, the 67th consecutive semiannual convention of the Society will get underway at the Drake Hotel in Chicago. Bill Kunzmann, Convention Vice-President, George W. Colburn, Central Section Chairman, and R. T. Van Niman, Chicago Vice-Chairman of the Papers Committee, report that advance arrangements are shaping up nicely and they plan to provide for both a full program and large attendance."
"To be certain that your name is listed correctly in the Society's Membership Directory for 1950, return your envelope-questionnaire promptly."
"Frequency allocation continues as a topic of timely interest to members who have been following the work of our Theater Television Committee. Most recent sign of activity in this direction is a Public Notice from the Federal Communications Commission, released on January 11, and announcing plans for a Hearing on Allocation and Rule Making in the near future. This is by way of reply to statements by the Society and four industry groups favoring allocation of frequencies for theater television filed with the Commission in August, 1949, and to 26 individual petitions for a Public Hearing filed subsequently."
"The Atlantic Coast Section meets on February 15, 7:30 p.m. at the Reeves Sound Studios, 304 East 44th St., New York City. Sound recording and television engineers are certain to be interested in the synchronous one-quarter inch magnetic tape recorder that will be described and demonstrated by Drs. D. G. C. Hare and W. D. Fling of Fairchild Recording Equipment Corp. This equipment is being used regularly by at least one New York television station for double-system television film recording."
"The techniques of motion picture cutting have in some measure found application in television cutting as well. Characteristics peculiar to the new field, however, have influenced the growth of new techniques. In this article the author outlines the basic principles of television cutting from the creative or production point of view. In a succeeding article he will discuss the equipment in use in television stations for the switching of picture signals."
"Cellulose nitrate motion picture film in the advanced stages of decomposition is liable to ignite spontaneously. The danger of such ignition is reduced by inspecting stored film stocks and removing and destroying all decomposing film."
"The composite negative obtained by photographing action against a rear projected background is a combination of an original negative with a dupe negative. An analysis by sensitometric methods of the gradational distortions thereby introduced has been attempted, the results of which are discussed in this paper."
"This is a motion reproducing system for use in “special effect shots” (multiple exposures, matte paintings, pan and tilt traveling matte shots, etc.) which permits the change of a camera position and adjustment while photographing a scene. Then, with the film rewound to the original starting point, a second exposure is made on the same film of a second scene, duplicating the relation of camera position and adjustments to the film movement which existed while photographing the first scene. This is done with sufficient accuracy to match matte lines in any of the standard double-exposure or other similar effect shots."
"This paper describes a new method of obtaining increased signal-to-noise ratio in optical sound film recording. This is done by increasing the noise reduction and is made possible by the use of delay networks which delay the application of sound currents to the modulator until after the noise-reduction-bias current has been partially canceled. Noise-reduction settings as high as 30 db have been tried with good success and settings of 15 db have been used in regular production."
"This paper describes a miniature microphone that has been reduced in size so that an extremely uniform frequency response is obtained from all angles of pickup. Although it is very small its output level is high. Because it is so small, it can be used in many applications not possible with larger and heavier microphones. Uses of the microphone in motion picture sound recording indicate a different placement and pickup technique can be used. Having simple parts, its uniformity of production can be extremely high. A description of different models is given along with suggested methods of using the microphone."
"To facilitate the introduction of magnetic recording on 35-mm film, modifications have been engineered for adapting photographic recording and reproducing systems so that they may be used alternatively for either photographic or magnetic recording. Existing transmission systems employed in photographic recording have been modified to include a bias-erase oscillator. Magnetic heads have been added to the film recorders in such a manner still to permit the use of the recorder for photographic recording. Re-recorders have been modified for magnetic only or for alternative magnetic or photographic reproduction. The existing photocell amplifier has been modified for the dual reproducing facilities."
"Advantages inherent in the normally thin, narrow magnetic tape may be realized with a new method of obtaining true synchronism with film for motion pictures. Adaptability of the system to dubbing and post-synchronization is described. For television sound, it offers wide-frequency response and long playing time."
"To meet the growing demand for improved high-aperture 16-mm projection lenses, the Eastman Kodak Co. has announced a new series of f/1.5 lenses primarily intended for professional projectors. The lens is fundamentally of the Petzval type with field flattener. The resolving power, contrast and back focus clearance are substantially greater than in present designs. The paper includes a historical outline of the development of lenses of this type, showing the progressive improvements in aberration correction that have been attained in recent years."
"The metal-diazonium system for photographic reproduction, which has been developed in Philips Laboratory in Eindhoven in the course of the last few years, is based on the discovery that when a solution of a diazonium compound and a metal salt, say mercurous nitrate, is exposed to light, atomic metal — in casu mercury — is separated. The “latent” mercury image thus obtained can be transformed by physical development into a silver image and intensified. The light-sensitive system is obtained in the form of a film or sheet by impregnating a suitable carrier, say a strip of cellophane 40 μ thick, in a homogeneous solution of the said materials. The metal-diazonium system possesses an extremely high resolving power (> 1000 lines/mm) and allows of working with a very high gamma (6-8) while on the other hand low gammas (1-2) can also easily be obtained by varying external factors, viz. the moisture content or the intensity of exposure. The light-sensitivity of the system is in cellophane several times (in paper some tens of times) greater than that of the usual diazotype printing papers. This system, which was originally intended only for producing distortion-free copies of Philips-Miller sound film, lends itself excellently, inter alia, for the copying of picture-sound films, thanks to the external variability of the gamma. The impregnating of the cellophane base takes place on printing machines designed for the purpose, while at the same time these machines are fitted with a device for regulating the moisture content of the base. The good photographic properties of the system and the very low cost of materials open great prospects for its application on a large scale in all sorts of fields. In addition to the sound film and the picture-sound film also the field of micro and macro documentation is regarded as an important domain for the application of the system."
"USERS AND MANUFACTURERS of 16-mm sound projectors have long had available a comprehensive group of sound test films produced and sold by the Society and the Motion Picture Research Council. Although distribution of these films was not restricted, but on the contrary has been encouraged widely, the order of technical accuracy demanded by the specifications under which they were made forced production costs up so high that their use was, in effect, restricted to professional applications."
"To bring yourself and your company up to date on the technical trends in motion pictures and television, you can do nothing better than attend the 67th Convention of the Society that will be held at The Drake hotel in Chicago from April 24 to 28."
"The standard aspect ratio of the television screen is four units of width to three of height. When the picture is originally scanned on the target of the image orthicon tube, it is a rectangle of this proportion. The pictures that are viewed by the public on many home receiver screens, however, bear little resemblance to the 3 by 4 rectangle, and greatly alter the framing and composition which the cameraman originally created. The fault is in the home receivers; films and live television pictures suffer equally in this regard. The general adoption of a rectangular tube will alleviate this problem somewhat, but a large share of the trouble arises from receivers which are improperly adjusted as to picture size."
"Quarter-inch magnetic tape offers considerable economic and operational advantages for the recording of sound track material. The theory and basic design of a system which provides completely adequate synchronization of the sound with the picture arc discussed. Various methods of automatically framing the sound track and picture arc considered, and a simple system capable of rapid framing is described."
"The open-air concentrated-arc lamp is a new form of the concentrated arc which operates in the open air and does not require any enclosing bulb or protective atmosphere. The light source is a sharply defined, circular spot which is formed on the end of the electrode by a thin film of incandescent molten zirconium. The lamps can be operated from alternating or direct current and can be made in sizes up to several kilowatts. A 1-kw lamp operating on alternating current draws 18 amp at 55 v and produces 3000 candlepower from a spot 5.4 mm in diameter whose average brightness is 130 c/sq mm. The radiation has a continuous black-body type of spectral distribution and a constant color temperature of 3600 K. Due to a unique operating principle whereby the zirconium metal is constantly renewed from its own products of combustion, the lamps can have lives of several hundred hours. The exhaust products are nontoxic and the electrodes are replaceable. The lamp is characterized by extreme stability and ease of operation. It is expected to find application in projection, television, flood and spot lighting and other fields which require intense light sources."
"This paper defines the various factors that arc involved in photographic exposure control. The relationships of these factors arc developed under special and general conditions. The importance of the key-light intensity and relative location of source is shown. A formula for determination of setting of camera exposure controls is developed. Practical application of the fundamentals to the design of photographic exposure meters is discussed."
"A survey of high-speed motion picture practices was conducted by the Society in 1949. The data collected arc presented here, with a review of comments submitted by users of high-speed techniques and equipment. Conclusions arc drawn by the author regarding the current availability of such information and also the scope of the survey is commented upon. Recommendations arc made concerning the future of photographic instrumentation and the role of the Society in this expanding field."
"The perception of random noise in television has been clarified by studying its analogy to graininess in photography. In a television image the individual random noise grains are assumed analogous to photographic grains. Effective random noise power is obtained by cumulating and weighting actual noise powers over the video frequencies with a weighting function diminishing from unity toward increasing frequencies. These check reasonably well with preliminary experiments. The paper includes an analysis of the effect of changing the tone rendering and contrast of the television image."
"Previously, attempts were made to modify black-and-white densitometers to make them suitable for color measurements, but considerable difficulty was experienced with such modifications. Therefore, the Ansco Laboratories developed new electronic circuits utilizing the full capabilities of the photomultiplier tube for this purpose. These developments, combined with other refinements, have made it possible to design a densitometer capable of using sharp-cutting filters to measure color densities up to 4.0 and over."
"In comparing the color quality of motion picture projector light sources, it is of little value to judge bare screen colors, with no film in the gate. A complete specification of the spectral distribution of the radiant energy is required. Short-cut methods of evaluating and specifying this important property are described, involving the use of red, green, and blue filters to determine the ICI trichromatic coefficients, and, from these, the color temperature. A method of combining direct color measurements on the carbon arc crater from various angles of view to yield the screen color in any optical system of interest is also described."
"The basic chemical reactions, spectral characteristics of the dyes and types of machines utilized in the film processing are discussed in detail. The entire Cinecolor three-color process is described from the printing of negatives to the final inspection of the finished print."
"This paper describes a new carbon-arc projection lamp employing an electronic system to provide automatic control of the carbon positions. Each carbon-feed mechanism is separately driven by an alternating-current motor actuated by an electronic impulse generator. Feeding speed of the carbons is controlled by varying the resistances through the generator control circuits to adjust the number of impulses supplied per minute to the alternating-current motors according to the carbon-consumption rates. A polarized directional electromagnet controls the position and shape of the tail flame."
"This paper is an endeavor to call attention to an engineering material which has the most favorable coefficient of friction in relation to film emulsions and bases among known commercial products. — Characteristics of sapphire in fine watches, the development of industrial sapphire, and potential motion picture equipment applications are discussed briefly. The Auricon camera film gate with regard to the use of hard contact points and the mounting of sapphire contact surfaces is described and illustrated. Physical characteristics of sapphire are shown with charts and performance data. Diamond lapping compounds and the metal bonding and flame forming of sapphire are briefly mentioned."
"In his Report1 as retiring chairman of the Standards Committee, F. T. Bowditch offered several suggestions for improving the effectiveness of the Committee. Briefly, he proposed that the development of standards could most properly be done by the several engineering committees of the Society and that the past practice of organizing subcommittees of the Standards Committee to prepare such standards should be discontinued wherever possible. Further, he proposed that the Committee on Standards should be so organized that it functions primarily as a policy-making group, but it should also be competent to consider the over-all effect of standards proposals in relation to the industry and to related standards."
"The Two Test Film Standards that appear on the following pages were proposed initially and developed by the Motion Picture Research Council. After being subjected to careful study under the normal procedure of American Standards Association Sectional Committee on Motion Pictures Z22, they were approved for publication and have now been added to the list of available standards."
"Members who were elected during tho annual Society elections in 1949 took office on the first of January. So that Society members who have recently joined may become better acquainted with these men who are responsible for managing the affairs of the Society, here they are:"
"The operation and performance characteristics of television camera tubes from the iconoscope to the image orthicon and vidicon are described briefly, stressing recent developments. The application of the vidicon in industrial television equipment and, in greater detail, possible uses of television techniques in astronomy are outlined."
"Television as a visual medium must be operated within the boundaries of its technical characteristics to achieve good visual reproduction. The system handles a limited range of luminance, introduces luminance transfer distortion, exhibits spurious effects (halos, image orthicon ghosts, clouding, streaking) and has finite detail resolution. It is necessary to provide guidance whereby production personnel can fully exploit the present system. — Accordingly, rules have been formulated for each of the major production operations at CBS, viz., staging, lighting, camera operation and direction. Individuals working in these phases are thus enabled to perform their separate functions with assurance that their combined efforts will produce images which are both technically correct and artistically pleasing."
"As the hot war of the 40's ended, there was much to be said about the growing use of film in education and about the teaching of film production in colleges and universities, with comprehensive curriculums supplemented by modern and suitably designed equipment. These views, in fact, were reflected in the Journal article by Frayne cited in the note below. As Chairman of the SMPE Motion Picture Instruction Committee, Frayne reported the motion picture courses taught in the 102 institutions, colleges and universities which answered his questionnaire. The purpose of the study was to report to the Society what courses were being taught and where. The article closed with comments as to the possible value of this education to motion pictures as a profession and noted in particular the lack of technical courses. As of three years later—three years of unparalleled expansion in higher education—the present investigation proposes to follow up the Frayne study for the purpose of indicating possible trends and offering a reasonably definite idea of the present state of instruction in motion pictures in American colleges and universities after this period of relatively lush growth."
"This article discusses the problem of synchronizing motion picture film with a sound track on standard ¼-in. magnetic recording tape. The equipment for synchronizing the tape with film is the major subject discussed."
"Measurements of flashtube current and potential have been obtained using a radar synchroscope, and from these the power and energy supplied to the discharge for a wide range of operating conditions. Simultaneous observations of the time variation of the radiation in three spectral regions were recorded using multiplier phototubes. A lag of several microseconds in peak radiation behind peak power input is observed, the lag increasing with wavelength of the intense continuum produced by these discharges in rare gases. In addition to this change in quality of the radiation with time during the flash period, an increase in radiation efficiency with energy input occurs, the rate of increase being the highest for short wavelengths."
"A new form of portable lighting equipment is described which has been designed especially to meet the needs of the high-speed cinephotog-rapher who is always faced with the difficulty of obtaining sufficient light. Two compact-source mercury cadmium lamps are operated in series at their normal wattages of 1 kw, and are then flashed at 3, 5 or 10 kw for 5, 2 or 1 sec. The equipment consists of a control unit and two lightweight lamp-houses. — The light output is sufficient for color photography at speeds up to 3000 frames/sec, or for black-and-white photography with small lens apertures to give considerable depth of focus. The flash may be triggered from a microswitch or from a camera switch. The steady light output from the lamps is sufficient to arrange and focus the subject."
"The paper describes the new Simplex X-L 35-mm projector mechanism which is now in production. High lights of the improvements are reduction in mechanical load on the gear train, improved lubrication, new lens mounts, more finger room for threading, a direct viewing telescope focusing device and over-all design simplification."
"Development of a new deluxe 35-mm motion picture projector mechanism, to be known as the RCA-100, was recently completed and production is now under way. The keynote in the design is high-quality projection continuously over a long period of time without the necessity of costly periodic factory overhauls and replacement of parts. Over ten years of field experience with the Brenkert BX-80 projector mechanism has shown that automatic lubrication, a heavy rugged type of gear train, double rear shutters, unit construction and ease of serviceability are features essential to this objective. These features, together with new additions necessary to meet present-day requirements will be described in this paper."
"The development of synthetic color-forming binders and their application to photographic emulsions is discussed. These accomplishments have made possible the manufacture of a release positive color film designated Du Pont Type 275. * A resume of some of the novel features of the stock is given and the utilization of the material as a color release medium is covered. Details of the printing and processing of both picture and sound records are given."
"A new video system and a new arrangement of television studios have been devised at WOR-TV. This system adds considerably to the flexibility of a television station by permitting combination of any of the station's cameras in any combination in several studios for programming. This is accomplished by using a separate “camera control center” where all camera control operations are carried out. Individual studio control rooms provide for program direction and switching of the cameras for a particular program."
"Electric-flash sources produce infrared as well as visible and ultraviolet light. Using only the infrared portion, the guide number for infrared film is equal to or higher than the guide number for Kodachrome using the visible portion from the same source. Factors affecting the infrared output are discussed. Described is a small airplane instrument panel photographic recorder using an infrared filter over the flashtube to avoid distraction of the pilot. The short-duration infrared flash gives very readable records on 16-mm film at one-second intervals."
"The introduction of magnetic sound film recording and reproducing apparatus into Great Britain is described as well as the types and characteristics of magnetic film available. Details and the general circuit arrangement of the apparatus are given together with a description of special apparatus which has been used for adding a visible signal indication record to the invisible magnetic sound track. Apparatus which has been evolved for the bulk wiping of magnetic film stock is also described as well as experience gained with different types of magnetic film joints."
"At the International Television Conference held at Zurich in 1948, Captain A. G. D. West read a paper in which he described the project which he had formulated for providing large-screen television to cinemas in London. In this paper he discussed the sources of program material, the distribution plan, the installation in the cinemas and other features, including the need for higher definition and the study of audience reaction.1"
"The Army's use of 16-mm sound motion picture projection equipment during the past decade is outlined. A brief description of the Army standard 16-mm projector set AN/PFP-1 is given, with particular reference to features which provide increased light and sound output, higher sound fidelity and improved maintenance characteristics."
"Dubbing, subtitling and related production techniques are described. Spoken and written language rules and pitfalls are noted, and taboos are tabulated."
"THE SEPTEMBER JOURNAL lists 19 Engineering Committees with a total of 313 members. More than 40 separate projects are presently under review by these groups; some have one project each, others as many as 10. So it is obviously impractical here to review all this activity in any detail. Instead, this report will be confined to a few highlights which indicate current trends."
"Man, from the beginning, has sought to extend the range of his vision. Once upon a time he called upon the oracle or the soothsayer to overcome the barrier of time and distance. Our present, more skeptical, age relies instead upon the ingenuity of the scientist and engineer to translate past into present and to bring distant scenes within our immediate reach."
"A new technique of motion picture filming has been developed, making important economies in theatrical production costs. Titled the “Multicam Process,” this technique utilizes three or more cameras operating simultaneously from three or more different angles or on long, medium and close-up shots. The system permits a picture to be photographed in continuous action, cuts from one camera to another being indicated by “sync” marks on the selected film, and corresponding lines exposed on the sound film. The marking and “sync” devices are automatic. The Multicam Process makes it possible to film completely 30-min programs in a day, and to film “live” shows as they are televised."
"A brief review of the characteristics of a highly sensitive television camera tube relative to sources of illumination is given. Recent improvements in special fixtures and facilities that have contributed to more rapid adjustment and better directional controls are discussed. There are relationships between staging and lighting of sets, and consideration of capabilities has produced some definite rules for normal studio operation. It is important that staging and lighting be carefully studied and planned in detail before camera rehearsals begin."
"This paper reviews deficiencies in present photographic printing techniques of 35- and 16-mm films and shows how they are overcome in electrical printing as defined in the paper. The technique for electrical transfer of variable-density and area tracks to reversible color films is described. For transfer to black-and-white release films both the direct-positive variable-area and supersonic “toe” density techniques are compared for this type of recording service."
"Experience to date indicates that magnetic recording can improve quality, simplify operation and reduce cost in motion picture making. Further, the extent to which these objectives are accomplished is largely dependent upon the willingness to change technique and equipment."
"There follows a discussion of the use of the Marley High-Speed Camera in special adaptation for study of objects within the test channel of a transonic wind tunnel. Included are a description of the original camera and an outline of some changes required to adapt it for the photographing of nonluminous objects. Also given are methods used to coordinate the camera exposure time with the position of the moving object “bullet” and external lighting apparatus to produce 58 pictures at a rate of 100,000/sec."
"The Navy's earlier procedures in underwater cinematography are reviewed, then the progress to the latest equipment and methods used by the Naval Photographic Center. From knowledge gained on location tests, current techniques stress extreme mobility and versatility using a single cameraman. The motion picture camera and deep sea diving equipment now in use are briefly described."
"This paper describes one of the successful methods of bringing the 16-mm motion picture to the 35-mm screen in color. The information presented is the result of more than two years research and work in this field by Filmeffects of Hollywood."
"A new laboratory has been designed to utilize for the first time the system of pump and spray processing for all its different operations, except for the developer."
"The three major systems being considered by FCC are: (1) the CBS field sequential; (2) the RCA dot sequential; and (3) the CTI line sequential system. They are mutually exclusive in that different receiver circuit arrangements are required for each. Their principal characteristics will be described and related to the general problem of providing color television service to the public. The probable design factors upon which the FCC decision will be based, such as required bandwidth versus picture fidelity and resolution, and compatibility with existing black-and-white television systems will be covered in detail."
"A cathode-ray tube with a screen consisting of three phosphor bands fluorescing in the primary colors of red, blue and green may, in principle, be used to effect wholly electronic reproduction of television pictures in natural color if field- or line-sequential transmitting norms are employed. However, this tube inherently suffers from two limitations: the screen area is inefficiently utilized from the standpoint of light output, and the resolution capabilities are inadequate."
"It is the purpose of this paper to discuss various features of a combination magnetic record-reproduce head of the ring-shaped type, known as MI-10794, with emphasis more on the general principles of construction than details of assembly. Shown in the paper are various lamination shapes for ring-type heads; the change of head inductance with change of front-gap and back-gap spacer thickness; the lamination stacking factor as a function of lamination thickness; the shape of the lamination employed for the subject head; flux distribution patterns about the front-gap of a record head for various thicknesses of front-gap spacer; the “gap effect” of a reproduce head; the output voltage and inductance of a reproduce head as a function of the front-gap reluctance; and a photograph of the finished record-reproduce head."
"The Ventarc lamps represent a new series of high-intensity carbon arc lamps for motion picture projection recently developed by the author at Zurich, Switzerland. The blown arc of the new lamp produces a distribution of brilliance which is highly advantageous for the illumination of the aperture. By using a new negative electrode the arc can be pushed up to an extremely high brilliance. The precision feed control of the Ventarc insures a perfect homogeneity and invariability of the screen illumination. The visible radiation of the arc is effectively concentrated on the projecture aperture by an entirely new optical system. Heating of the film is minimized by eliminating all invisible radiation. No surplus energy not useful at the screen has to pass through the film."
"A brief review of the techniques used in photographing underwater explosions at the Underwater Explosives Research Laboratory and the Naval Ordnance Laboratory for the past several years will be given. The Fastax (35-Mm), Eastman Hi-Speed and a rotating-mirror frame camera have obtained pictures ranging in speed from 2000 to 30,000 frames/sec. Explosions of charges weighing up to one pound have been photographed at depths down to two miles. In the very deep water photography the equipment which synchronized the explosion with the flashbulbs, timers, etc., was self-started by means of a pressure switch. Typical results will be shown."
"An intermittent sprocket pulldown with accelerated geneva drive has its own directly connected synchronous motor. The remaining sprockets and shutter are driven by a second synchronous motor. The two systems, engaged temporarily for starting, run mechanically independent to eliminate shock forces and obtain an inherently flutter-free sound drive. New optics throughout give high picture and sound resolution. Tungsten and arc light sources are provided. Other features include a high-quality amplifier, independently driven accessories, turret accommodation for instantaneous lamp replacement, improved base-up mounting of lamp and improved floor mounting."
"A large fraction of the radiation from an arc lamp consists of infrared and ultraviolet energy. By coating the arc mirror blank with multilayer interference films instead of with silver, the major portion of the visible light can be reflected while most of the infrared and near ultraviolet radiation is transmitted. Hence, this type of mirror reduces film distortion caused by overheating, and because of the selective nature of the reflection, it affords a means of controlling the color quality of the illumination."
"Two fundamental factors, brightness gain and reflectance or transmittance, determine the suitability of a screen material in any particular application. High brightness gain, which necessarily implies a narrow viewing angle, may be desirable in one application but not in another. The reflectance or transmittance of the screen material is a measure of the light efficiency. — Comparative figures for several commonly used screen materials are presented. Both front and rear projection screens are considered. Fundamental photometric concepts are reviewed and laboratory equipment is described. The figures are considered to be accurate to within about 5%, and are in reasonable agreement with the few published figures available."
"Consideration is given to the major problems encountered in television reproduction of motion picture film. Present practices are discussed and special requirements of the television system are described. The qualities presently desirable in a motion picture film to fit it to that system are defined, along with explanatory exposition. An appendix lists the specifications for quick reference."
"Shock waves close to the edge of explosive charges have been successfully photographed at rates exceeding 100,000,000 frames/sec. These ultra high framing rates are obtained with a multi-slit focal plane shutter which is transported optically across the film plane by a rotating mirror. Linear shutter speeds up to 3,000 meters/sec are easily obtained, and the resulting framing rates with the proper selection of slit widths can be varied from 105 to 109 frames/sec. Each individual frame is composed of a series of lines, and the degree of “discontinuity” across each frame is proportional to the total number of frames."
"The Flutter Measuring Set was built to measure the low percentage flutter of present-day recording and reproducing equipment. The set conforms to the “Proposed Standard Specifications for Flutter or Wow as Related to Sound Records,” as outlined in the Society's Journal for August, 1947, pp. 147–159."
"A new portable professional 35-mm motion picture camera has been recently introduced into this country from France, embodying the following characteristics: reflex shutter, adjustable from 200° to 40° (viewing is through the taking lens at all times); instantaneous loading of 400- or 100-ft magazines; divergent three-lens turret permitting use of 24- to 500-mm lenses without interference; interchangeable 6- or 8-volt electric motor, hand or spring drive; double pull-down ratchet movement with unique system of pressure pads and spring tensions to insure steadiness. The exterior shape of the camera is designed to fit the body, thus insuring steady hand held operation. The flat base of the camera is made to fit the rapid mounting dovetail of the tripod head."
"There is an apparent need and trend toward reducing the amount of electric power required for illumination in motion picture production. Although the interest in this situation extends through the entire industry, the greatest economic significance probably concerns the smaller nontheatrical producers, many of whom are working with direct 16-mm film. For present purposes, this report considers only the problem of small sets and field work."
"The requirements and the arrangement of the various elements of a rather versatile television receiving system are described. A commercial unit is used to illustrate some of the practical applications of ideas suggested in this paper."
"Artificial lighting on outdoor motion picture sets is essential for both day and night photography. In most cases an electrical distribution system is not available at the selected location, and power must be supplied by electric generators driven by internal-combustion engines. Because standard, commercially available, engine-generator sets are not suitable for the special performance requirements encountered in motion picture photography it is necessary to design and construct special equipment having the required features. This paper describes and evaluates the engineering factors involved, and illustrates how each of the desired characteristics was attained in equipment recently constructed."
"In the fall of 1948, the writer proposed to John A. Maurer, then Engineering Vice-president of the Society, that a committee on chemical engineering practice be organized to provide Society members with much needed information on chemical and chemical engineering practice as it applies to our industry. Mr. Maurer agreed with the proposal and suggested that such a committee be organized as a subcommittee of the Laboratory Practice Committee. A subcommittee composed largely of chemists and chemical engineers working in the motion picture industry was accordingly appointed. Later it way suggested that this subcommittee expand its activities to include the entire function of the parent Laboratory Practice Committee under its present chairman. The committee was organized with East Coast and West Coast Sections, the West Coast Section under the co-chairmanship of Vaughn Shaner."
"The chemical bath formulas and treating methods used in present-day continuous motion picture processing machines were adopted without essential modification from the earlier manually operated rack-and-tank process, to which the long times of treatment were well suited. In continuous processing at high running speed, these long times of treatment require the use of large-size machines of considerable complexity which are costly to build and difficult to operate and maintain. Recent work on rapid processing methods has shown that, with highly active baths and spray application, the times of treatment can be reduced by a factor of 25 to 50, so that equipment can be made smaller and simpler as well as easier to operate and maintain. — With such types of film as can be strongly hardened in manufacture, elevated temperatures are used to accelerate the reactions further and to simplify temperature control without refrigeration. In this case, processing is complete in a minute or less. Even with films which are not hardened to such a degree in manufacture, the total time for processing can usually be reduced to a few minutes by making use of active baths applied by spraying and impingement warm-air drying. The latter films sometimes are hardened in a preliminary bath to gain time by the use of vigorous baths and elevated temperatures if the process comprises a number of successive bathing operations. — The design of equipment to suit the needs of these processing methods is described with reference to the conditions which are met in television work, in the motion picture laboratory and in the field."
"The proven practicability of spray processing, coupled with the availability of acetate film bases which will withstand fairly high processing temperatures, enables construction of compact continuous processing equipment for operation at synchronous speed of cameras and projectors. The theory and construction of an experimental equipment are described. Significant performance features are studio print quality, continuous automatic operation and convenient control of process variables. Auxiliary equipment permits reel-to-reel, camera-to-projector or camera-to-reel processing. Possible applications are television network service in connection with video recording, motion picture theaters, laboratory processing of small film batches, and motion picture studio monitoring of critical takes."
"A dielectric, such as photographic film, becomes electrified when rubbed or passed over rollers. The electrostatic charges which are generated attract dust and dirt particles to the film. Since dirt is objectionable to both the manufacturer and the user of film, means are sought to reduce electrification. This paper describes a method that has been devised to evaluate roller-film combinations electrostatically. Film is brought to a given potential, either positive or negative, and the change in potential measured as it passes over a test roller. Typical data for a variety of rollers are presented. The work was extended to test the effect of rubbing film with cleaning pads of velvet and mouton fur. Measurements were also made with solvents applied to a velvet cleaning pad."
"This paper presents a plan for establishing the processing control of variable-area sound tracks printed on Kodachrome. Data are presented for two methods starting with the 35-mm master or dubbing print and following through the intermediate steps to the final Kodachrome prints."
"A description is given of the ballistics range at the Naval Ordnance Laboratory, White Oak, Md. Details of the 25 photographic stations with their electronic controls are included."
"The system is an electronic version of the process screen now used in motion pictures and television. Two television cameras may be mixed without superimposition. A contrasting white background screen in back of the foreground subject, which is always brighter than the subject, provides contrasting information. This information keys the two cameras on or off through an electronic switch. Details of the signal selection, modification of the keying signals and the use of delay lines are discussed."
"Past efforts to systematize control of film production (and especially color) have been partially defeated by inability to detect variations of color temperature of daylight and artificial light sources. Effects of such variations on tone or color of makeup, costumes and sets are cited. Steps necessary to complete control, and the part which color temperature of illuminants plays in each are indicated. A new instrument is described which makes the practical determination of color temperature a simple step. A more accurate method is proposed for the description of illuminants, color film and filters."
"The stroboscope has long been proposed as a source of illumination for ordinary motion pictures because of several attractive technical features; however, as has been pointed out clearly by F. E. Carlson recently, there are serious disadvantages that must be overcome before the flashtube finds widespread practical use for everyday motion picture studio photography. This study reports additional experiences with flashtubes especially at large power input as would be needed in picture taking. One object was to find the upper power limitations of existing commercial flashtubes. A further object was to study the design and performance of a three-phase efficient power supply."
"Limitations and advantages of sealed beam lamps for motion picture set lighting are disclosed. Comparisons of light output and distribution vs. regular studio spot lamps are made; also, lamp efficiency, life and weight of equipment are discussed. Lamp requirements for motion picture set lighting are presented and the methods followed by the Motion Picture Research Council to determine possible usage of sealed beam lamps are described."
"Extensive use of high-speed motion pictures—and their corollary, time-lapse photography—as research tools is forcing many an engineer to become an accomplished photographer, to add to his other highly specialized experience. He puts the unfamiliar tools of photography to work because he has available no other means of securing the information he needs. Although photography in its more conventional aspects is basically complex, our researcher multiplies its complexities many times by crowding to the limit nearly every step in the process and thereby hands himself, as an amateur, a handful of problems that have been stumping the experts regularly for years."
"Society members will meet on October 16 for their 68th Semiannual Convention. The Lake Placid Club, a restful private resort in the heart of the Adirondacks, will be the location. Bill Kunzmann, the Society's genial Convention Vice-president invites all members to attend, relax in delightful informal surroundings and derive maximum value from the many technical papers soon to be scheduled. The Papers Committee gives assurance that the program will be well organized, and that it will attempt to provide more adequate opportunity for discussion than has been customary for conventions in the recent past."
"The volume of literature on semiconductors and related topics increased greatly in 1950. The greater interest in this field was evidenced by a first Internation Conference on properties of semiconducting materials at Reading, England, during July 10–15, 1950, and a number of scientific society meetings at which symposia were devoted to semiconductors and related topics. Specifically, the February, March, and November, 1950, American Physical Society meetings contained symposia programs."
"This standard covers all relays directly associated with electric power apparatus. However, it relates only to relays of types directly associated with power switchgear. It does not cover relays of types designed primarily for industrial control, excitation, or governor regulating, telephone, telegraph, traffic signal, or similar purpose."
"Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"The following topics are dealt with: insulation applications; dielectric measurements; and the dielectric properties of matter."
"A number of applications of synthetic resins most of which have only recently been applied to any extent in the electrical industry, are briefly described."
"Those familiar with the history of organic insulating materials are aware of the fact that within the last thirty years, materials from natural sources are gradually being replaced with synthetic materials. The result of such a substitution is usually a product with consistently better and more controllable properties. This type of progress was made possible by the many developments in the synthesis of new materials by the chemist, who initiated what might be called the synthetic era in the 1920's. The new insulation described in this paper involves a product of synthetic chemistry. It was developed for use on the stator coils of large high voltage generators, many of which are rated at more than 100,000 Kva."
"Clear ruby muscovite mica is classified as a low loss insulating material and many values for dielectric loss and dielectric constant are given in the literature. Such values presumably are based on measurements made in the direction perpendicular to the plane of basal cleavage. We find that mica inherently has a much higher dielectric loss parallel to the plane of cleavage and that impurities such as entrapped water, and semi-conducting mineral inclusions further exaggerate this condition. Such excessive parallel loss, particularly that due to entrapped moisture, may have some bearing on the anamolous behavior of some mica capacitors, with respect to poor life, excessive r-f heating, silver ion migration, low Q of small size capacitors, excessive temperature coefficient and other adverse effects."
"As might tie expected from the title, the purpose of this paper is not to cover all possible phases of the use of silicones in electrical applications, but to describe a few of the “new” silicones which are available, or about to become available to the electrical industry."
"Silicone resins are used as dipping, varnishes and coatings for glass cloth and glass covered magnet wire, primarily in applications in which high ambient or operating temperatures obtain. The silicone resins often must be depended upon to maintain electrical and mechanical properties required in the specific application for long periods at temperatures as high as 180°C or even higher. The physical and electrical properties of silicones change both as a function of temperature and aging. A knowledge of the reasons for these changes should help both in the development of superior materials and in application to specific problems."
"During the war the Armed Services experienced a high rate of failure of electronic equipment in tropical service. Upon examination, much of this equipment was found to be covered with fungus growth. It was recognized that this fungus growth occurred at high humidity. The direct contribution of moisture itself to the failure of electronic equipment was often overlooked and fungus growth alone was blamed for the field failures. In consequence, methods of combating fungus growth in electronic equipment were sought."
"Tests with high voltage d-c are generally facilitated as compared to a-c testing by the fact that, with d-c, test terminals may be greatly simplified or omitted entirely. For example, tests have been made at 500 kv with a test end only six feet in length and with no special end preparation whatever."
"The voltage endurance of insulation on machine windings is of considerable interest to both manufacturers and users of electrical equipment. It was believed that additional information might lead to a better understanding of dielectric break-down such as occurs on windings and aid in the development of maintenance testing procedures for older windings Previous test work had been on older windings with various types of tests. The results were inconclusive particularly because a few very large samples were tested. This paper represents a comprehensive testing program wherein several types of mica insulations were subjected to various a-c and d-c tests. Large numbers of samples were tested to permit statistical analysis of the data."
"This study is aimed at the development of rubber insulations completely resistant to attack by soil microorganisms. The failures caused by soil microbes are minute Regions of low insulation resistance and dielectric strength surrounded by sound insulation."
"Failure of electronic apparatus under conditions of high humidity and temperatures conducive to the growth of molds focused attention upon the role of molds in deterioration. Early investigation of this problem solely by cultural biological techniques resulted in extensive use of lacquers and varnishes containing fungicides as coatings for electronic equipment and components."
"This review of dielectric measurements is confined to the measurement of the complex dielectric constant of dielectrics, with no consideration whatever for the measurement of dielectric strength. Only measurement technique will be considered, with no reference to specific dielectric properties except as their magnitude and variation directly affect the technique. The conditions under which measurements must be made will be considered in some detail. These conditions are frequency, temperature, pressure and voltage gradient, together with the shape of the specimen and the accuracy of the measurement."
"Measurement of attenuation at 400 MC is required in the JAN Specification for R. F. Cables. The Naval Research Laboratories developed' a test set for this purpose which is undoubtedly familiar to many companies manufacturing cable. A schematic diagram of this test set is shown. The theory and operation of the set is as follows: The generator and its coupling loop can be replaced by the series resonant circuit shown. It is well known that the maximum power that can be delivered by this series resonant circuit to any external circuit is E2/4R. The detector is first coupled directly to the generator with the test cable out, pf the way. The coupling is critically adjusted and all circuits are tuned so that the detector receives the maximum possible power from the generator. The detector reading is noted. Coupling loops tuned to 400 MC are now soldered to the ends of the test cable and these are coupled to the generator and detector, as shown. The generator and detector are of course separated by some substantial distance at this point, so that there is no direct coupling. If all circuits are properly tuned, and if all couplings are properly adjusted, the detector will receive the maximum possible, power from the generator minus the power absorbed by the test cable. Also, the cable will be terminated at each end and in its characteristic impedance Zo. so that no standing waves exist in the cable.: Hence, the decrease in the riding of, the detector meter is a measure, of the attenuation in the test cable, and if the detector meter is calibrated, the attenuation of the cable can be readily computed."
"The apparatus shown in Fig. 1 has been developed to measure, compute and record dielectric constant and loss factor against temperature at any fixed frequency from 25 to 600,000 c.p.s."
"According to the classification of Hague, this bridge belongs to the class of networks containing only resistance and capacitance and employs the parallel resistance method for comparing capacitors. The audio oscillator is a Hewlett Packard Type 200D which is used up to 10 kilocycles. At radio frequencies a General Radio type 684A modulated oscillator is used as the generator. For low frequency detection a General Radio type 814A amplifier and General Radio type 760A sound analyzer are employed. From 10 kilocycles upwards, a Sargent model 11-UA all-wave radio receiver acts as detector. It is aided by the 814A amplifier up to 200 kilocycles. A one kilocycle beat note from the Sargent receiver is fed to the sound analyzer tuned to this frequency. Balance is observed on the decibel meter of the analyzer in conjunction with headphones. A series of General Radio output transformers are used to couple the bridge to the detector units, Low loss polystyrene-insulated coaxial cable is used for the high frequency components and all these including the bridge are mounted in separately shielded cabinets."
"Everyone concerned with the measurement of the properties of dielectrics has probably been faced with the problem of measuring the dielectric constants of thin films. “Thin films” are understood to mean varnish, resin or other solid dielectric material not more than a few mils thick. It is the purpose of this paper to discuss some of the methods used, their advantages and limitations, and to suggest an extension of one method which has given very good results in the authors' laboratory."
"The preliminary object of the research described here was the investigation of a suspected variation of breakdown strength with duration of the applied voltage pulse. The liquids chosen as test dielectrics, both polar and non-polar, were of simple molecular structure, the majority of them being organic liquids."
"The question of electric shock hazard from the surface of an energized cable was deemed of particular importance in view of a recent trend towards use of semi-conductive jackets. The data and discussion have to do specifically with this aspect. Whereas our preliminary experimental investigation was initiated with aerial cable, the implications are general and should provide a stimulus for further work."
"A modern high-voltage aerial cable has, around its copper conductor, a high-voltage synthetic rubber insulation such as, Butyl; metallic shielding (copper tape, tapes, or braid); and a protective jacket overall such as, Neoprene. Two types of terminals for such cable are in use: the time-honored pothead with a compound-filled cast metal bell and porcelain insulator, and a splicer-made field termination using tapes, paint, a soldering iron etc. The task with which we were confronted was to develop a simple outdoor terminal for shielded cable, reliable electrically and mechanically but light, inexpensive, and easily and quickly installed by linemen (not by splicers) using ordinary line tools."
"There are several important factors which determine the minimum safe leakage distance for insulation. However, two basic factors are (a) the magnitude of surface leakage currents, and (b) the effects of these currents on the insulation. The magnitude of this current depends upon the characteristic of the surface, surface contamination and the voltage gradient. Since the power loss caused by the leakage current is inconsequential in power systems, concern need be given only to the damage these currents may do to the surface of the insulation."
"In a recent study on the change of dielectric constant as a determination of the progress of crystallization of an inorganic compound, a great deal of difficulty had been experienced. The cause lay in the high and continually changing dielectric constant of the specimen and in the necessity of involving the use of a series capacitor and a container both of which had different dielectric constants from each other and from the specimen."
"The voltage distribution on high-voltage insulators should be uniform enough to prevent excessive voltage gradients and spark discharges under any practical working conditions. Furthermore, uniform voltage distribution is, in general, essential for the efficient use of the insulating material."
"One of the drawbacks of ceramic dielectrics is low thermal stock resistance. This proved quite troublesome to the armed forces during the last war by causing failures of electronic equipment."
"Breakdown tests on commercial sheet insulation are usually made with disc electrodes with either square or round edges1. The breakdown is often initiated at he electrode edges where the electrical stress on the immersion medium is high, even when liquid immersants are used."
"One of the primary prerequisites of a good insulating material is that it have a low power factor. The best insulators in this respect are frequently difficult to evaluate accurately because, equipment conveniently available does not lend itself readily to low-loss measurements. The smallest power factors determined by most commercial bridges is hardly better than 10-4, whereas materials such as polystyrene and teflon have power factors only two to three times this value. When resonance methods are used the smallest detectable power factor is inversely proportional to the Q. For a. Q of about 200 and the usual voltmeters and generators the sensitivity is also of the order of 10-4. The precision can be improved by increasing the Q which in turn can be, accomplished by introducing negative resistance in the resonant circuit to compensate for the energy dissipated in the circuit. This idea is hot new. In fact radio engineers have for many years used regenerative circuits to improve the selectivity and gain of tuning circuits. Apparently Towsley* was the first to apply regeneration to dielectric measurements. The approach arid the circuit described in this paper are different and the apparatus is simpler."
"“Holes” and “electrons” are words used to describe the two processes by which electrons carry current in semiconductors like silicon and germanium. These two processes, although prominent in theory for the last two decades, have acquired much greater reality as a result of new experiments stemming from the invention of the transistor. In fact a new engineering science, referred to as transistor electronics, is now being built about the behavior of holes and electrons."
"The electrical properties of titanium dioxide semiconductors have been under study for several years.1,2,3,4 In general, however, the previous studies were only of the electrical conductivity of ceramics so that little information about the properties of the rutile lattice is available. Recently, however, synthetic rutile crystals have been placed on the market*, and an investigation of their electrical properties is of obvious Interest."
"One of the first applications of microwave techniques for determining dielectric properties of gases was made by Saxton who determined the dielectric properties of steam at 9 cm, 3.2 cm, and 1.6 cm.1 He found a dispersion which he was unable to account for theoretically. Saxton's results and those obtained at lower frequencies by other investigators are shown in Table 1. The present work was undertaken to determine whether or not this dispersion is genuine and to calculate the dispersion to be expected from the theoretical absorption in the centimeter and millimeter wavelength regions."
"In the course of an investigation of the electrical properties of pure high polymer materials, measurements of the dielectric constant and loss factor of Poly-vinybutyral (Butvar), Polystyrene, Methyl methacrylate, and a copolymer of the latter two materials were made over a frequency range from 60 c/s to 1000 Mc/s. An effort was made to improve the accuracy of these determinations to facilitate the analysis of the data and its correlation with other factors. In the frequency range from 60 c/s to 200 kc/s, where three-terminal bridge measurements may be made, the accuracy of the determination of the dielectric constant is usually limited by the accuracy with which the thickness of the sample and the area of the measuring electrode can be measured. In order to permit the highest possible precision in the determination of the average thickness, a precision molding technique was developed in the Plastics Section of the National Bureau of Standards for producing disk specimens with improved uniformity of thickness and diameter and with square edges. This permitted the use of a travelling microscope in measuring the diameter. The volume of the disk was determined by hydrostatic weighings. The thickness was computed from these determinations."
"In 1936, G. Groetzinger reported apparent increases of as much as 71% in the thermal conductivity of beeswax electrets over that measured for unelectrified beeswax. In view of the technical advantages of such a property, we decided to repeat these experiments. Groetzinger's experimental conditions were reproduced, but no difference between the thermal conductances of electret and normal wax, within an experimental error of ± 15%, could be detected; data on the two waxes were statistically indistinguishable. Furthermore, measurements by the more precise parallel plate method showed that any difference must be less than about 5%."
"Previous work carried out in this laboratory has indicated the desirability of further studies of the correlation between dielectric relaxation phenomena, molecular structure and viscosity. Measurements have been carried out on solutions of the nearly spherical t-butyl chloride and methyl chloroform molecules and the long n-tetradecyl bromide molecule in two non-polar solvents, n-heptane and a viscous paraffin oil, over a temperature range 4.°C. to 60°C. The measurements were at 1.22, 3.22, 5.59, and 10.00 cms. wavelengths as well as at 1000 cycles and at optical frequencies. Values for the optical dielectric constants were corrected for the atomic polarizations using the standard method for alkyl halides since explicit data for these quantities are not available. The constants in the equations relating the dielectric constants and concentrations were plotted in the complex plane to give the expected arc plots. The distribution constants and critical wavelengths were then calculated according to the Cole and Cole method."
"The low frequency dielectric properties of 1-monopalmitin, 1-monostearin, 1,3-dipalmitin, 1,3-distearin and a number of long-chain triglycerides have been investigated in the solid state over a wide range of temperature, The measurements were made with the aid of an impedance bridge operating in the frequency range from 0.5 to 100 kilocycles."
"Liquid and plastic polytrifluoromonochloroethylene polymers exhibit similar electrical behavior as a function of temperature and frequency. As the temperature is lowered, one passes from a single phase (either solid or liquid depending on average molecular weight) to a two-phase state characterized by the appearance of crystallites in the material. The temperature at which crystals appear depends on the average molecular weight of the polymer and is governed by the solubility of the longer chain material in the shorter chain length “mother liquor” ranging from ca. 200°C for the plastic material to -10°C for a liquid sample. In each case the appearance of the crystalline phase is accompanied by a sharp rise in the dielectric constant to a peak value governed by the volume percent of crystals. There appears to be two distinct relaxation processes involved: (1) a dipole orientation of the long chain rotator in the solid or crystalline phase and (2) a rotation of the dipoles in the liquid or glassy (depending on the temperature) non-crystalline phase. Although the loss factor (\") maxima occur at markedly different temperatures (for a given frequency), the activation energies derived from the data are the same."
"The dielectric constants of cellulose fibers from a number of sources have been measured by a liquid immersion method. The dielectric constant of the fiber is matched exactly to that of the liquid in a dual electrode cell using a null method. The dielectric constant of the liquid is varied by varying the temperature, making use of the large negative temperature coefficient of its dielectric constant as opposed to the small positive temperature coefficient shown by the cellulose fibers."
"A calculation of the static dielectric constant of a crystalline - dipolar material of simple structure is outlined. It is assumed that the dipoles are arranged in a simple cubic structure (NaCl type) and that ordering forces between them depend on the shape of the molecule and are exerted between nearest neighbors only (short range forces). Each dipole is assumed to have two possible positions 180° apart and, in equilibrium at the absolute zero of temperature, nearest neighbors point in opposite directions so that the part of the dielectric constant due to the permanent dipoles is zero. The material is then completely ordered. As the temperature is raised, thermal agitation causes more and more dipoles to turn through 180° and eventually a second order transition temperature T0 at which long range order disappears, is reached. The variation of static dieleciric constant with temperature can be calculated using Fröhlich's general formula and taking account of the short range ordering forces by Bethe's method."
"The measurement of dielectric properties in the microwave band is usually accomplished by placing the sample in a waveguide or resonant cavity. Free-space methods, while lacking the general versatility of waveguide techniques, exhibit certain advantageous features: the problem of maintaining a precision fit between the sample and the guide is avoided; certain structures, for example, “honeycomb” materials and artificial dielectrics, can not be measured by waveguide methods but can be measured in free space; and at millimeter wavelengths, waveguide procedures become more complicated while free space techniques retain their simplicity."
"The microwave resonance technique of L. R. Bickford, Jr.1 of this laboratory is being used in a further study of single crystals of magnetite (Fe3O4). His measurements were made using 1.25 and 3.3 cm microwaves on both natural and synthetic single crystals from room temperature to -190°C. These measurements are being extended to lower temperatures using, synthetic crystals and 1.25 cm microwaves. Magnetite is known to undergo a transition at approximately -160°C characterized by anomalous effects in the specific heat, electrical conductivity, and magnetization."
"Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record."
"Modern broadcast radio receivers of the super-heterodyne type are frequently sources of spurious radiation from the local oscillator, which radiation may cause severe interference with other services. In addition, in the case of television broadcast receivers, there may be radiation of power from other sources beside the local oscillator. This Standard describes the potential sources of spurious radiation from frequency modulation and television broadcast receivers and sets up methods of measurement whereby the strength of some of these radiations may be determined. Where the method for the two classes of receivers differ, the specifications for each are outlined"
