"Transistor noise is discussed in general and methods of measurement are presented. Experimental results show that noise figures for point-contact transistors are approximately 50 db; for junction transistors they may be as low as 10 db at 1,000 cycles. The effect of the variation of the dc operating point on noise figures and other parameters is discussed. It was found that the noise figure of point-contact transistors is relatively independent of the dc operating point, while for junction transistors it may vary considerably with the collector voltage and to some extent with the emitter current."
"Linear circuit problems involving multiple noise sources can be handled by familiar methods with the aid of certain noise spectrum functions, which are described. Several theorems of general interest dealing with noise spectra and noise correlation are derived. The noise behavior of transistors can be described by giving the spectrum functions for simple but arbitrary configurations of equivalent noise generators. From these, the noise figure can be calculated for any desired external circuit. Illustrative information is given for a number of n-p-n transistors."
"In this paper results of a study to determine the temperature dependence of the electrical characteristics of Type 1698 and 1768 transistors are given. Variations of transistor parameters as a function of temperature are given for each type of unit. Cumulative distribution curves are also given for the transistors studied. The implications of the results obtained with regard to transistor operation at elevated temperatures are discussed briefly."
"In a grounded-emitter or grounded-collector connection of a junction transistor, the effective current amplification is proportional to the factor (1-α)-1, where α is the current-amplification factor of the transistor. As a result of the phase shift associated with a, the magnitude of (1-α)-1 decreases rapidly with increasing frequency. It is shown that the magnitude of (1-α)-1 is 3 db below its low-frequency value at a frequency of the order of magnitude of (1-α0) times the frequency at which the magnitude of α alone has decreased 3 db below its low-frequency value of α0. In addition, experimental results of measurements of phase and amplitude characteristics of α as a function of frequency for several fused-impurity p-n-p junction transistors are presented and are compared with the variation of α with frequency calculated in accordance with the theory of Shockley, et al."
"The effect of positive feedback through the internal base resistance of a transistor on circuit cutoff frequency is considered."
"Several recovery time effects in germanium point contact diodes are described and a hypothesis is proposed to explain the observed effects. This hypothesis postulates the presence of traps in the germanium p layer near the point electrode. Measurements and computations based on this hypothesis give trap densities of the order of 1016/cm3, trap depths in the energy band of the order of 0.3 electron volts, and capture cross-section diameters for the traps of the order of 0.3 Å."
"Expressions are obtained for the pulse duration and repetition rate of an astable multivibrator circuit employing contacttype transistors. These expressions are confirmed by experiment for repetition rates of from 200 to 10,000 cycles per second."
"The junction transistor possesses operating characteristics that are closely comparable to a modified triode vacuum tube. A direct comparison between the two devices is particularly interesting if a π equivalent circuit is used for the transistor. The vacuum-tube analogy and transistor equivalent circuits are considered in some detail in this paper. For purposes of comparison, a tabulation of operating characteristics of a transistor and a vacuum tube has been prepared."
"The paper outlines a method to treat transistors as 3-terminal \"black boxes,\" represented by their admittance matrices. Instead of using an equivalent circuit with internal sources, the treatment is direct and uses only measurable quantities. Once the admittance matrix of the grounded-base transistor is measured, it is easy to derive the matrices for grounded-emitter and grounded-collector stages. Matrix representation also presents a direct method for analyzing cascaded stages. The method is illustrated by an analysis of circuits with a transistor that has been described elsewhere."
"A general method is presented for calculating approximately the behavior of many nonlinear circuits by dividing the region of operation into subregions, within each of which the circuit may be considered linear to a good approximation. The method is applied to a high-speed transistor switching circuit as an illustrative example."
"This paper explores the possibilities of using the transistor for control functions which are, in present-day practice, performed by magnetic amplifiers, amplidynes, and thyratrons. It is found that a main transistor controlled by auxiliary transistors can be made to perform in a way resembling the phase-controlled rectifier. It can be energized from an ac power supply and it can be operated with an efficiency which approaches the rectifier. In several ways it is superior to the magnetic amplifier: It can carry current in both directions and it can serve as a two-way rectifier or a frequency changer. It is hoped that these possibilities will lead to development of transistors in larger units."
"The behavior of donor, acceptor, and ohmic contacts prepared by fusing impurity metals to germanium is discussed. Power rectifiers having rectification ratios as high as 107 can be made by fusing donor and acceptor contacts to opposite surfaces of a germanium wafer. An analysis of their electrical characteristics is presented which agrees well with the measured performance. The properties of transistors prepared in a similar manner and which are capable of 100 watts of output power are described."
"A high-voltage germanium p-n junction rectifier resulting from improved materials and techniques is described. Its characteristics are briefly delineated. A method of rating based upon distribution of internal losses emphasizes versatility of this rectifier."
"A battery-powered, high-voltage, low-current supply is described, which utilizes a transistor as an oscillator. Significant savings in weight and power are realized."
"The current transistor development activity is being complemented by development of new families of subminiature components. Assembly of such minute parts by conventional hand-wiring techniques poses serious physical and economic production problems. The auto-sembly printed circuit system is presented as a simple, effective, and compatible approach to the fabrication of compact transistor circuits. Auto-sembly offers error-free, low-cost, high-production assembly lines with low demands on tooling and background \"know-how.\""
"Discussed in this paper are methods and results of a semitheoretical survey made to estimate what would be gained at the present state of the art by using transistors instead of tubes in standard airborne equipment."
"This paper concerns trigger and pulse circuits for transistors having emitter-to-collector current gain (such as point-contact units). The circuits are designed to permit reliable operation with transistors which are not completely uniform; they also allow reasonable variation of circuit parameters or bias voltages. Quantitative analysis is made possible by use of simplified circuit theory which divides the nonlinear characteristic of a transistor and its associated feedback and external resistances into quasi-linear regions. By this analysis, one can predict both the type of operation, i.e., monostable, bistable, and astable (oscillatory), and the amplitude and waveform of the output. A basic monostable circuit consists of a single transistor with a resistance in the base lead to provide feedback and a capacitance or, preferably, a transmission line as the emitter load. This circuit can be used to regenerate periodic or nonperiodic pulses, thereby providing a standardized output pulse shape, or to generate single pulses when initiated; it is possible to provide very intense short pulses (up to one ampere) even with transistors of low power-handling ability. The output pulses may be arbitrarily delayed with respect to the input, and amplitude discrimination against noise or spurious signals is also possible. Bistable circuits also use a single transistor with external resistances. It is shown that lack of reliability of previously used bistable single-transistor circuits can be overcome by proper arrangement of circuit parameters and bias supplies and, in some cases, by use of a nonlinear resistance (crystal diode) as the emitter load."
"The general transistor properties of small size and weight, low power and voltage, and potential long life suggest extensive application of transistors to pulse- or switching-type systems of computer or computer-like nature. It is possible to devise simple regenerative circuits which perform the normally employed functions of waveform generation, level restoration, delay, storage (registry or memory), and counting. The discussion is limited to point-contact type transistors in which the alpha or current gain is in excess of unity and to a particular feedback configuration. Such circuits, which are of the so-called trigger type, are postulated to involve negative resistance. On this basis an analysis, which approximates the negative-resistance characteristic by three intersecting broken lines, is developed. Conclusions which are useful to circuit and device design are reached. The analysis is deemed sufficiently accurate for first-order equilibrium calculations. Transistors having properties specifically intended for pulse service in the circuits described have been developed. Their properties, limitations, and parameter characterizations are discussed at some length."
"Methods for generating the entire input characteristic for the various terminals of a transistor are given together with procedures for the graphical analysis of three direct-coupled transistor circuits. The circuits analyzed are a base input amplifier, a collector to emitter direct-coupled switching circuit, and a collector to base direct-coupled circuit."
"The feasibility of performing a fairly complex switching function using a few elementary transistor circuits is illustrated and experimentally verified. The specific function discussed is reversible binary counting. The mechanism used to achieve reversibility and the circuitry within each building block is described. Operating margins and suggestions for design improvements for systems application are given."
"The usefulness of transistors in systems has been given a feasibility proof through the construction and operation of a six-digit position encoder and serial-output digit register. This system performs the functions of photoelectric encoding, pulse regeneration, digit storage, reflected-to-natural binary translation, and digit shifting by means of circuits using transistors and other semiconductor devices. The model occupies a volume of about ¼ cubic foot, weighs seven pounds, and consumes 16 watts of power."
"A description of the negative-resistance properties of the point-contact transistor is presented as an introduction to the description of a regenerative amplifier. The choice of circuit parameters for the amplifier is discussed and a sample design presented. The illustrative amplifier regenerates digital information at a megacycle rate and develops pulses with rise times of less than 0.05 μsec. It operates from supply voltages of +6 and -8 volts, with a battery drain of less than 0.05 watt. A complete set of computer building blocks has been designed around the amplifier. Their use is illustrated in two computer applications."
"A small set of basic functions, such as binary memory and elementary binary logic, can be remarkably versatile; such functions are important in switching and computing. This paper describes a piece of computing equipment which can store a pair of binary numbers and add them, producing the sum a digit at a time. The equipment is built from a basic set of functional blocks, all of which are designed around transistors. This set of building blocks consists of a binary cell, a pulse amplifier, a pulse amplifier with delay, and logic circuits. The binary cell is a flip-flop; amplifiers are monostable circuits, and logic is performed in diode gates. Some interesting special features arise from the use of transistors. These features are discussed and the designs are evaluated."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In order to recruit and cultivate the scientific talent which is needed for industrial research today, it is necessary to know something about the requirements for a good research man and also something about the character and motivation of the individual man now engaged in research. A number of desirable characteristics for the research man are described. The result of an informal survey taken at RCA Laboratories indicates that creativeness, training in the fundamentals of science, and integrity of character are the prime requirements. Among the most important sources of motivation for a man in research are his intellectual curiosity and the satisfaction of his ego. A discussion of the place of financial incentive in the research man's motivation is included. The types of team relationships in the daily work life of research men are also discussed."
"A novel approach to microwave transmission and components is described. In place of the more familiar waveguide or coaxial structures, this technique utilizes a single conductor supported above a ground plane. Such a configuration is equivalent to a parallel-wire system for the image of the conductor in the ground plane produces the required symmetry. Losses in this system are approximately equal to those of coaxial structures. The extent of the field spread about the conductor is small, thus making possible compact configuration. Printed-circuit techniques are particularly applicable to the construction of compact, rugged, inexpensive, and noncritical microwave components. A general description, background theory, and laboratory experiments are given in this and other papers."
"Properties of TEM-mode propagation are examined for a wire or a strip of finite width immersed in a uniform infinite dielectric above a ground plane. Characteristic impedance, power flow, and conductor and dielectric losses are considered. The discussion of the TEM mode is in the complex plane."
"Broadband microwave components of many and varied types may be realized in microstrip construction. Complete radio-frequency systems in line-above-ground design are shown to be entirely feasible and offer significant advances in economy, size, and weight."
"A telemetering system is described for controlling and monitoring the ion source, focusing, and belt charging in the high-voltage electrode of the large dc electrostatic accelerator nearing completion at Los Alamos. Time-modulated pulsed light beams are the transmission media from grounded electrode to high-voltage electrode and provide 16 Independent channels."
"The noise in a temperature-limited electron beam in a drift space is calculated by a new means. Noise maxima and minia are found. The results agree with calculations made by the Rack-Llewellyn-Peterson method."
"This paper describes an antenna impedance-measuring instrument of the indicating type, designed to have a small capacitive loading effect when connected directly to the terminals of an antenna. The model constructed operates at freqencies up to 30 mc and has a loading effect no greater than that of a conducting sphere 1.5 inches in radius. It appears feasible to extend these limits considerably merely by mechanical refinement. The smallness in effective size is obtained by isolating those conducting components of the instrument which are not part of the RF circuit and by operating the antenna under test as a receiving antenna so that the instrument does not have to contain a signal generator. No power or control wires are connected to the instrument, and it is possible for the operator to remain outside the immediate field of the antenna during the measuring process."
"Formulas are derived and techniques given by means of which impedance measurements can be made by the use of a double-slug transformer. The required parameters are the length, spacing, position, and \"effective\" dielectric constant of the slugs, and the wavelength. A means for the experimental determination of the \"effective\" dielectric constant is described. The only quantitative measurements required are of length. A qualitative recognition of the electrically matched condition is needed."
"Field strengths of KE2XCC (93.1 mc, Alpine, N.J.) and WBZ-FM (92.9 mc, Boston, Mass.) have been recorded for more than a year at two locations (Hauppauge and Riverhead) on Long Island. Statistical analysis of data for the eveninghours reveals a broad seasonal trend toward higher intensities in the summer, with larger over-all variation on the longer transmission paths. Based on analysis of one summer month, refraction effects appeared to vary independently in the two directions. During periods of rapid and violent fading, hourly median field strengths of WBZ-FM varied over a range of 32 db at Riverhead and 25 db at Hauppauge. Furthermore, for the above-mentioned fading conditions, it was observed that on the 150-mile path, the hourly curves of field-strength distribution with time approached a log-normal distribution when the median field was less than 10 db above 1 μv per meter, and a Rayleigh distribution when the median field was greater than 15 db above 1 μv per meter."
"Determination of failure and recovery times from backscatter tecords at 15 mc on a 2700-km path was done with good agreement. Certain disturbed days gave anomalous scatter records. Rapid changes in these records were compared with motion of ionospheric irregularities, rates being of the same order of magnitude. This paper is essentially a condensation of National Bureau of Standards Report No. 1297, November 16, 1951."
"Microwave filters based upon coaxial structures are not difficult to construct, and for wide-band applications they have an advantage over cavity types in that the terminal matching problems are more easily met. For narrow-band work the cavity is superior because of its higher Q. A tentative analysis of coaxial transmission-line band-pass filters is given and experimental work in support of the analytical results is included. A TE-mode high-pass filter is discussed and experimental data presented."
"A network solution is given of the well-known RC parallel-T driven by a generator of finite resistance and terminated in a resistance load. It is shown that by properly relating the source and load resistances the network presents a loss at low frequencies equal to the loss at high frequencies, and under this condition the transfer characteristic conforms to a circle diagram in the complex plane. This, the \"symmetrical parallel-T,\" is shown to have a transfer characteristic like that of a simple \"equivalent\" series-resonant circuit."
"The method of synthesis presented in this paper shows how to obtain an RC network that can have real or complex zeros and real poles in its transfer function. It differs from methods given in previous papers in that the final network contains only three-terminal structures connected in cascade. For the realization of a particular transfer function that includes complex zeros, this method yields a network with fewer elements, simpler configurations, and higher level of transmission than any method given heretofore."
"A procedure is presented for the synthesis of a network to yield a prescribed magnitude versus frequency characteristic. The given characteristic is replaced by a sequence of straight line segments of arbitrary slope. Each line segment is associated with a zero-pole pair properly placed on the real p axis, where p is the complex frequency variable. In this manner a real, rational network function is obtained whose magnitude variation approximates the given one. Methods for predicting the realizability of the approximating function are discussed in the application to the design of two terminal and two-terminal pair networks. To illustrate the methods outlined in the paper, a complete procedure is given for the design of attenuation equalizers using constant-resistance ladder sections."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Large forces are developed at the stylus tip of a conventional phonograph reproducer arm because of excitation of the resonance of the arm mass with the suspension compliance. This paper presents an analysis of the problem and describes a reproducer-arm design in which mechanical resistance is introduced in the pivots. By this means, control of the arm resonance is obtained without increasing the stylus-tip impedance of the reproducer."
"Pendulum and velocity-variation types of oscillations in retarding-field oscillators are discussed. The processes of bunching, drifting, and working of the electrons are explained, and a comparison is made to a reflex klystron. Recent results obtained from retarding-field oscillators are given."
"In storage-type television camera tubes using high-velocity electrons for scanning, such as the iconoscope and image iconoscope, the storage surface is stabilized to an equilibrium potential by secondary emission. A number of undesirable characteristics, such as spurious signals, absence of \"black-level\" information, and relatively low efficiency, are usually associated with tubes of this kind. However, these disadvantages are considerably reduced if the mean potential of the storage surface is shifted negatively. A method is investigated for obtaining such required potential shift by periodically irradiating the storage surface with high-velocity electrons while simultaneously reducing the collector potential, these periodic processes being carried out during suitable intervals in picture transmission, such as the frame-blanking period. Application of this principle has been most successful in cases where the picture is projected intermittently as in the \"memory-scanning\" method of film transmission, but for continuous pickup the advantages are only partly attainable."
"A comparison method has been developed for the direct measurement of cavity Q at microwave frequencies. It is particularly useful for high values of Q, such as 5,000 to 15,000. The over-all error in the measurement is estimated to be less than ±3 per cent. A two-channel superheterodyne technique is used, in which both channels are driven by the same frequency-swept oscillator, and both channels use the same local oscillator. The cavity is inserted in the radio-frequency stage of the first channel, and a comparison circuit is inserted in the intermediate-frequency stage of the parallel channel. The two resonance curves are displayed on the same oscilloscope for alternate sweeps of the oscillator. When the resonance curves are made to coincide, the Q of the cavity is n times the Q of the comparison circuit, where n is the ratio of radio frequency to intermediate frequency. Cavity shunt resistances can be measured on the same apparatus."
"Certain design considerations, construction detail, and performance data are presented for a small disk-type homopolar tachometer which was developed as a low inertia, low noise, low friction rate signal source for incorporation into a high-performance servomechanism. Performance characteristics reveal that a unit of this type has certain advantageous features which recommend it over conventional tachometers, although a low signal output level is an inherent disadvantage."
"This paper discusses the factors which influenced the design of a directly calibrated portable microwave noise source, utilizing a fluorescent lamp. The variation of the noise power output and the impedance match as a function of the operating temperature are considered, and the portable unit is described."
"A direct reading wattmeter is described which will read either positive or negative peak or average power of complex voltage and current waveforms containing components in the frequency range from dc to 71 kc. The instrument will measure up to 50 watts, covered in three ranges with an accuracy of 3 per cent. The scale may be extended by suitable resistance changes. The voltage and current inputs are mutually dc isolated to allow measurement of the current at any point between the ground and the voltage source. Multiplication of the current and voltage is accomplished by modulating a 10-mc carrier with the current, and then modulating the resultant with the voltage in a cascade of two suppressed-carrier modulators. The instantaneous product is recovered in a phase-sensitive demodulator, and then passed through an integrating network for average power, or through a peak detector for peak power. The wattmeter was designed with particular reference to the measurement of the plate dissipation in television horizontal output tubes. It was designed, nevertheless, to be a general-purpose instrument capable of accurately measuring power in any type of circuit where the voltage and current involved can be measured."
"General formulas are developed for harmonic and total distortion in the frequency of the outputs of linear transmission systems with pure frequency-modulated inputs and with amplitude and phase characteristics involving wiggles that can be represented approximately by single sinusoidal functions of small amplitude. The amplitude wiggles represent departure from flatness, and the phase wiggles departure from linearity. This first-order analysis yields a result for total distortion D, which varies linearly with the amplitude of either wiggle if the amplitude of the other is made zero. It will be seen that D is periodic in the frequencies of the wiggles and in the audio frequency p and carrier frequency ωc of the frequency-modulated input. Of course, D is also a function of its index of modulation m. The formulas for D can be applied to amplifiers, filters, and the like in a communication system that satisfies the above assumptions. General distortion formulas are applied to waveguides loaded by pure resistances. Among other things, the so-called \"long-line\" effect in distortion is discussed. Graphs show the dependence of distortion on various parameters."
"The wavelength of a wave guided by a dielectric rod has been measured for the TEon, TMon, HEln, and EHln, modes for n = 1 and 2. The measurements were made on polystyrene, lucite, textolite, and paraffin rods, as well as on plastic tubes filled with Nujol and dioxane. The measurements agree very well with the solutions of the characteristic equation. The solution of the characteristic equation corresponding to the second radial mode and the angular mode of order one has two branches, both of which are found experimentally. Measurements are made of the attenuation in a dielectric rod due to losses in the dielectric and due to bending of the dielectric guide."
"This paper describes a novel high-performance x-band hybrid junction. Its over-ill dimensions are 1¾\"×½×2\". It consists of a suitably loaded gap in the narrow common wall between two it ½\"×1\" waveguides. Over the frequency range 8,500- to 9,600-mc per second power equality within ±0.25 decibels, isolation in excess of 30 decibels and a standing-wave ratio less than 1.07 may be obtained. The theory of the device is explained, and the particular advantages of this hybrid junction for a number of applications are outlined."
"A method of measuring and describing atmospheric noise based on statistical considerations is presented, and apparatus for making the measurement is described. Results obtained are compared on a statistical basis with those obtained by methods of noise measurements in common use. Data obtained at low frequencies are discussed."
"Curves are developed which specify the parameters of a coaxial or twin-line shorted stub of maximum resonant impedance when the frequency, outer dimension, and lumped capacitance at the open end are given."
"The influence of the core material on the thermionic emission of oxide cathodes was investigated. Alloys of nickel with 4.8 per cent Mn, 4.0 per cent A1, 0.38 per cent Mg, and 3.5 per cent W were used as cores, with pure electrolytic nickel as a core being used as a control. The experiments showed that both the dc and pulsed emission of oxide cathodes are dependent on the core to a marked degree."
"Through the use of the algebra of dyadics a unification of dc and ac servo theory is obtained. The effects arising from the asymmetry of the sidebands in an ac (carrier-frequency) servo are automatically taken into account. In the case of a symmetrical sideband carrier-frequency servo or a dc servo, the generalized operators introduced reduce to the ordinary transfer functions of the system components."
"The superheterodyne mixer may be stabilized by the employment of the difference-frequency voltage as negative feedback. This results in increased gain stability and, for the case of the mixer couple, in increased gain-bandwidth product. Two mixer circuits using feedback are described. Generalized design curves are shown and a design procedure is outlined. A description of the experimental mixers and a discussion of the experimental results conclude the paper."
"Aparameter is defined from which may be obtained the mutual coupling between a radiating slot, cut in a plane perfectly-conducting sheet, and a dipole fed at its base on the conducting plane. Using a slot cut in a sheet of copper and fed by a waveguide, experimental values of this parameter were obtained for various positions of the dipole relative to the slot. These values are plotted and compared with the theoretical ones, very good agreement being obtained."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Design problems of magnetic amplifiers have been mastered by a technique which appertains to core construction, arrangement and proportioning of windings, and circuiting. Principles are described which have led to the construction of precision amplifiers adaptable to a wide range of input impedances and output requirements. Performance figures are given and practical applications described. Graphical methods for dimensioning the circuit elements and for predicting the performance of the assembly are set out and applied to push-pull amplifiers. Performance limits imposed by zero stability and response time are reviewed and assessed."
"The problem of the minimum loss in relation to the singing point is investigated for generalized transmission systems that must be stable for any combination of passive terminating impedances. It is concluded that the loss may approach zero db only in those cases where the image impedances seen at the ends of the system are purely resistive. Moreover, in such cases, the method of overcoming the transmission loss, whether by conventional repeaters or by series and shunt negative impedance loading, or otherwise, is quite immaterial to the external behavior of the system as long as the image impedances are not changed. The use of impedance-correcting networks provides one means of insuring that phase of the image impedance of the over-all system approaches zero. General relations are derived which connect the image impedance and the image gain of an active system with its over-all performance properties."
"A new dispenser-type emitter, known as the L cathode, is described and compared with three common types of emitters. A discussion of the methods of measuring the rate of barium evaporation is included, as well as the life performance of the L cathode in a number of diversified types of electron tubes."
"The procedure for a complete mathematical analysis of the AM-rejecting properties of the ratio detector is presented. The operation with 100-per cent efficient diodes is first treated, and it is shown that in this case compensating resistors which reduce the effective efficiency of the diodes must be used to obtain optimum AM rejection. The operation with practical diodes is then treated and design charts for optimum AM rejection are presented. From the theory, the effect of variations in ratio-detector transformer parameters upon the AM-rejection properties is predicted. Unbalanced effects and the manner in which they can be made to cancel each other mutually are briefly described. It is pointed out that the degree of apparent limiting action within the ratio-detector circuit is incidental and unrelated to its AM-rejection properties, and thus represents an inadequate design basis for the ratio detector."
"A traveling-wave cathode-ray tube has been developed which will record single nonrecurrent transients of 0.5 millimicrosecond rise time. The development was directed toward improvement of writing speed, deflection factor, and shielding between horizontal and vertical deflectors. Distortions due to transittime effects, and frequency dependent impedance mismatch of the deflector have been minimized. A deflection factor of approximately 0.5 volt per trace width (33 volt per cm) in the vertical direction has been obtained with a reduction of sensitivity of approximately 4 per cent at 1,000 mc. A recorded writing speed in excess of 1×10 trace widths per second (1.5×10 meters per second) has been realized. Oscillograms of recorded traces are shown."
"Electronic differential analyzers, or simulators, employ computing elements which must be physically realizable electric circuits, and this fact introduces unavoidable errors into the differential-equation solutions. These errors are investigated mathematically for the general case of differential equations with constant coefficients. It is found that in certain cases an error of 1 per cent can be introduced by an adder bandwidth 2,000 times the highest frequency in the differential-equation solution."
"By combining the properties of the klystron and the distributed amplifier, the duplex traveling-wave klystron allows wide-band amplification of high-level microwave power with an efficiency approaching that of an ordinary klystron. The construction and operation of an experimental model are described briefly."
"The composite multiplex signals generated by frequency-division methods long standard in telephone communication, can be transmitted by the new transcontinental broad-band FM radio relays. Signal intermodulation by echoes must be minimized. Such intermodulation is investigated in this paper experimentally and analytically. Two types of echoes are considered: (1) Weak echoes with delays exceeding 0.1 microseconds, caused mainly by mismatched long lines; and (2) Powerful echoes with delays shorter than 0.01 microseconds, caused by multipath transmission, and leading to selective fading. Using random noise signals, the distortion is evaluated as a function of various parameters of the echo, the baseband and the rf modulation."
"Physically separated radio transmitters can be frequency-division multiplexed to obtain a great economy of bandwidth utilization at vhf and higher frequencies, by use of a common reference signal at both transmitter and receivers in lieu of locally generated high-frequency oscillations. In an individual transmitter, a modulated low-frequency subcarrier would be used to modulate a harmonic of the reference signal, and the resultant sum (or difference) frequency-band selected for transmission. Amplitude-modulated voice signals spaced only 5 kc apart at frequencies above 100 mc, have been separated with ease in a two-channel laboratory model of such a system by use of a standard low-frequency communication receiver preceded by a wide-band mixer, the local oscillator for which was synchronized with the transmitter reference signal."
"A method of connecting 90-degree audio phase-difference networks for use in selective-sideband transmission and reception is shown, whereby an over-all performance is obtained which is analogous to the cascade operation of conventional filters. Three networks are required to obtain twice the rejection in decibels of one. For best results two of the networks must be accurately matched. The cascade connection may either be used with three identical networks to deepen the rejection obtainable with one network over the design range, or it may be used with two similar and one dissimilar network to extend the frequency range over which a given rejection may be obtained."
"A simple resistance-capacitance bridge is described The circuit is capable of providing higher selectivity than the Wien bridge, although it employs the same number of circuit elements."
"An analysis is given of some of the basic properties of exponential modes on passive cylindrical structures in which the material constants of the medium vary over the cross section. The bounding surface is assumed to be opaque, in the form of an electric or a magnetic wall; it is therefore always nondissipative. Major consideration is given to structures in which the internal medium is also nondissipative. Each mode is usually a TE = TM mixture. Some of the conventional orthogonality conditions no longer remain valid. In certain circumstances, however, the instantaneous and vector power that flow along the system are still additive among the various modes. Stored and dissipated energies per unit length generally are not additive. The propagation constant for modes on a nondissipative structure cannot be complex. The relation between the direction of the time-average Poynting vector at any point of the cross section, and that of the phase and group velocities, is no longer necessarily conventional, and the space angle between the transverse electric and magnetic fields may vary over the cross section. The field distribution of each mode varies with frequency in a manner which is clarified by physical interpretation."
"A narrow slot cut in the wall of a hollow cylinder is excited by a transmission line and produces radiation. A theoretical solution to the radiation patterns and conductance is obtained by solving Maxwell's equations for the fields in the far zone, and requiring them to satisfy the known boundary conditions at the surface of the cylinder. Advantage is taken of published data on potential distribution across the slot."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"Lists the chairmen of the various Professional groups along with their contact information."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In order to facilitate the use of relative magnitudes, the convenience of which for certain purposes has been demonstrated by the decibel, an examination is made of the fundamental relations applying to such quantities. Relative magnitudes are defined as quantities changes in which are expressed as ratios, which combine by multiplication, as distinguished from absolute magnitudes changes in which are expressed as differences, which combine by addition. It is shown that there are two number systems, conforming concurrently to the decimal system, by which relative magnitudes may be evaluated, and that the quantity 100.1 is the basic elementary number by which these two systems are related. The role of this number in computations with relative magnitudes is, in some respects, analogous to the role of the unit in computations with absolute magnitudes. It is suggested that the word \"logit\" is an appropriate designation for this quantity. Methods of employing this quantity, and the advantages of so doing, are discussed briefly."
"Some of the effects of electrical forming of the collector of an n-type germanium transistor are discussed. Evidence is presented for the existence of a region of p-type germanium underneath the formed electrode, together with some indication of the size of the formed region. These experiments lend support to the p-n hook mechanism in that they explain the observed high values of alpha in transistors. This relation is discussed."
"One of the basic phenomena exhibited by transistors is current multiplication. In transistors of the point-contact type (one of these has been called the type A), the mechanism giving rise to this effect has been somewhat uncertain. Four possible mechanisms of the current multiplication process in the type-A transistor are discussed. One of the mechanisms is based on trapping holes in the collector barrier of the semiconductor. By means of this trapping model, the effect of emitter current and temperature on the current multiplication is predicted. It is shown that these predictions are in reasonable accord with experiment. Furthermore, assuming this model to hold, the trap density and activation energy (produced by forming) may be evaluated."
"A measuring device is described which instantaneously displays the envelope delay-frequency characteristic on a cathode-ray screen. Loop and one-way measurements of long-distance radio networks can be carried out. The frequency range extends from 60 to 80 megacycles; the limits of accuracy are 1 millimicrosecond or 2 per cent of the measured delay range. Comparison of two characteristics can be carried out by superposition of alternate scanning traces. The device has been found useful in measuring the delay distortion of the TD-2 radio-relay system and in designing and adjusting the delay equalizers needed to correct it."
"This paper discusses an amplifier circuit with high input impedance which permits push-pull operation from an unbalanced source. A voltage, proportional to the total circulating current of the push-pull system, is obtained from a transformer connected in the cathode circuits of the output valves. Over-all performance similar to usual push-pull operation may be obtained. The possibility of a single- or two-mode oscillator is also discussed. Because of the simplicity, and general application of this circuit, some of the more useful formulas are developed in detail."
"The present status of klystron power amplifiers is reviewed by discussing the three types of electron-beam focusing used. The maximum power output, efficiency, gain, bandwidth, temperature compensation, and tuning means of present-day klystrons are briefly discussed. Examples of several typical tubes are given."
"It is shown that there is an optimum ground-station antenna height for use in typical air-to-ground communications systems. When antennas lower than this optimum are used, the maximum distance range is reduced at all aircraft altitudes. When antennas higher than this optimum are used, the interference between the direct and ground-reflected waves causes gaps to occur in the coverage at the higher aircraft altitudes. The minimum altitude at which the gap in coverage occurs decreases with increasing frequency and with increasing ground-station antenna height. The optimum antenna height decreases with increasing frequency and this, in turn, reduces the maximum distance range for satisfactory comzmunication as the frequency increases. The curves presented are based on values expected from theory for a smooth spherical earth. Such curves have been found experimentally to approximate very well the average practical operating results."
"A small, ring-shaped, ferromagnetic core with properly \"rectangular\" B-H characteristics may be operated so that its flux polarity reverses only when the correct combination of two or three magnetizing windings are coincidentally excited. Such cores may then be used as memory devices and assembled into a two-or three-dimensional memory system with storage-cell selection at the intersection of two or three space co-ordinates. Only a core which retains a large percentage of remanent flux of the proper polarity, in spite of repeated \"nonselecting\" disturbances, can be used as a coincident-current magnetic memory unit. Repetitive pulse-pattern testing designed to obtain quantitative data on the operation of such units, in the form of defined \"information-retention ratios\" and \"signal ratios,\" indicates that only a few core materials are satisfactory."
"A theory of operation neglecting space charge is presented for the internal feedback traveling-wave-tube oscillator. Experimental results, obtained from an oscillator using a helix as the interaction structure, are shown to agree closely with the theory. A brief discussion of oscillators operating on space harmonics is given, and it is suggested that an oscillator operating on the space-harmonic principle might have desirable characteristics for a millimeter wave generator."
"Darlington and Cauer have described a useful way of synthesizing a lossless two-terminal-pair network from a single driving-point impedance and a knowledge of the zeros of transmission. The procedure involved has a good deal of similarity to the Brune process of synthesis, and can readily be extended to RL and RC networks provided the zeros of transmission are restricted to the negative real axis of the complex frequency plane. Although such an extension is obvious, it seems worth while to point out the details involved and to illustrate these with a numerical example."
"A source of error known to be present in vhf field-intensity meters employing broadband radio-frequency input circuits, has been briefly investigated. The error is caused by harmonic generation in the receiver resulting from insufficient selectivity, and nonlinearity of rf or mixer stages in the presence of a strong fundamental. The magnitudes of the second and third harmonics generated internally were determined as a function of the level of the applied rf fundamental for a receiver having one particular type of rf input circuit. Errors in the measurement of the fundamental, caused by intermodulation occurring in the presence of a stronger interfering carrier of different frequency, are also briefly discussed."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Propagation aspects of air-to-ground and air-to-air communications are analyzed. Contours of constant received signal strength are shown in the form of lobes for various frequencies. It is shown that for systems with equivalent transmitted power, ground-antenna height, and transmitting- and receiving-antenna gain the service range decreases as the frequency is increased. This is due primarily to a decrease in the absorbing area of the receiving antenna and to a larger number of nulls in the lobe structure arising from interference between direct and ground-reflected waves. Ground-station antenna-height diversity and tilted-array ground-antenna systems are discussed as a means of improving coverage as the operating frequency is increased."
"The induced fibration of magnetic and electric fluids, when acted upon by magnetic or electric fields, manifests itself in two different ways: First, there is a mechanical manifestation in that their viscosity increases, and second an electrical malifestation in that a migratory orientation changes the dielectric constant. If semiconductive particles are suspended in an insulating fluid, the conductivity of the suspension becomes nonlinear as soon as the fibration at a certain threshold field reaches a particular point at which the semiconductive fibers bridge from one electrode to the other. Particular fluid carriers may be transformed into a solid state, thus making it possible to change the liquid-filled colloidal resistors into dry \"polaristors.\" The voltage sensitivity is characterized by the \"nonlinearity,\" i.e., the rate at which the differential resistance, under optimum bias, decreases when the bias changes by one volt. The formation process or the degree of fibration may be checked by means of oscillographic current-voltage characteristics or by means of intermediate-frequency oscillograms similar to modulation trapezoids."
"In television sound and other frequency modulation broadcasting, a practical operating problem exists wherein the usual station monitoring is ineffectual. The requirements of a truly representative aural monitor can be met by proper application and adjustment of a slope detector. Two units embodying this principle are described."
"Line-up and maintenance of radio relay systems require sensitive yet rapid measurements. These are obtained by scanning the systems response as functions of time, frequency, and amplitude. Parameters thus scanned include the transient response to step functions; frequency characteristics of gain, phase, impedance and their frequency derivatives; and amplitude characteristics of output nonlinearity and of intermodulation products."
"Existing corrections for atmospheric refraction in radio-field intensity computations are reviewed with respect to their application to computation of ray bending. A practical scheme is presented for calculating atmospheric refraction of radio-frequency rays numerically from radiosonde data. Ray-bending computations are made for a range of climatological conditions for rays passing entirely through the atmosphere and arriving or departing tangentially at the earth's surface. Some discussion is included regarding the uncertainty in refractive-index computations from meteorological sounding data."
"An operational method of analysis of variable-delay systems such as delay modulators and variable-path communication systems is developed in this article. The output of a variable-delay system is related to its input by a delay operator which has the usual exponential form, but differs from the conventional (time-invariant) delay operators in that the time delay is a function of time. Special consideration is given to systems in which the variation in time delay is due to motion of the receiver or transmitter (source) or both. Such systems-referred to as type-R, type-S and type-RS systems, respectively-are analyzed in general terms. An operational relation is obtained for the correlation function of the output of a type-R system, and the result is applied to the determination of the correlation function of a frequency-modulated sound wave."
"The sampling analogue computer described may be used for various algebraic operations. Using standard electronic components, and with electrical inputs, only fifteen tubes are required to produce an output accuracy better than one per cent of full scale."
"Isotropic artificial dielectric media composed of a three-dimensional cubic array of metal or dielectric spheres have been investigated. Theoretical expressions using the Clausius-Mossotti relation have been derived for the index of refraction, dielectric constant, and magnetic permeability of this type of dielectric. These quantities are independent of frequency so long as the size of the spheres and the spacing between spheres are small compared to the wavelength within the resulting dielectric media. Samples using steel and fused-quartz spheres have been fabricated, and the dielectric properties measured in rectangular waveguide at a frequency of 5,000 megacycles per second. Standard waveguide techniques are readily adaptable to this type of dielectric. Experimentally determined values of the dielectric properties are in good agreement with theoretical values, and the theoretical expressions are assumed to be valid."
"From the data presented here, it will be shown that large variations in the ability of a commercial pentode to maintain emission levels in the presence of shock are observed in groups of the same type from different production lots. Also, marked differences will be observed in a triode type having the same production date but exhausted on different days. It will be noted, too, that a standard A.S.T.M. diode displays only a very minor drop in activity after shock but when the diode has the cathode coating lengthened or a grid is inserted into the structure, the decrease in cathode activity with shock increases. Gas is observed momentarily immediately after shock in the \"diodes\" in which the grids are inserted. Replacing bumper type micas with smaller ones which do not contact the bulb result in less decrease in emission with shock, and increasing the number of micas in the standard diode has the effect of increasing the loss in activity after shock. In addition, it will be shown that the use of micas of different grades has, we believe, significant differences in the effect of shock on cathode activity."
"Experience gained in field and laboratory tests over the past ten years has shown that thoriated-tungsten filaments can be used in high-power transmitting tubes with life and reliability equal to that of the low-power types. This achievement can be attributed to improved materials such as oxygen-free high-conductivity copper and platinum-clad molybdenum, improved processing, and better exhaust facilities. Better appreciation of the mechanical problems and of the relationship between the carbide content, operating conditions, and life have all been important factors."
"Directional broadcast antenna systems are inherently capable of producing signal distortion. One type of distortion, described by Doherty, involves the frequency sensitivity of the antenna input impedance and relationships between this impedance and the transmitter and transmission lines. A second type of distortion results from the directional radiation characteristics of the array, and is caused by differences in the response conditions of a directional array for the carrier and each sideband frequency."
"The efficiency of thermal electron emission is defined as the total motional power imparted to emitted electrons over the total heating power of a cathode. Under the assumption that power loss is by radiation only, this efficiency is calculated theoretically and its optimal value determined. Theoretical results are compared with practical values, and hints are given pointing to obtaining a, better efficiency."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper deals with the importance of obtaining and disseminating the maximum amount of technical information. The usefulness of technical briefs and periodicals is questioned and the interrelation of all flelds of science is stressed. It is advocated that the inclination of selected key scientists to specialize be kept at a minimum and that their training, educationally and practically, cut across all fields of science. These scientists ae then utilized to extract from a wide variety of reports and publications the maximum amount of technical data, which is then passed on to the working scientist."
"The \"plasmatron,\" a new type of continuously controllable gas tube, is described and its operation analyzed. This tube utilizes an independently generated gas-discharge' plasma as a conductor between a hot cathode and an anode. Continuous modulation of the anode current can be effected either by variation of the conductivity or the effective cross section of the plasma. The first of these is accomplished by the modulation of the electron ionizing beam which controls the plasma density and hence its conductivity. The second method makes use of the gating action of positive-ion sheaths which surround the wires of a grid located between the anode and cathode. The plasmatron appears to have considerable promise for such applications as motor drive, direct loudspeaker drive, high-efficiency rectification and inversion, and the many other uses which require the high-current and low-voltage operation that the high-impedance vacuum tube cannot supply."
"The sun is, after the moon, the simplest major astronomical body to reach by radar, and it is a more interesting object for study than the moon or the planets. In this paper, the process of reflection from the sun is investigated theoretically, together with the manner in which the echo intensity would be expected to depend on the various parameters of a radar system. It is shown that the detection of sun echoes appears technically possible, but a radio-engineering project of considerable magnitude is involved. Orders of magnitude of planetary echoes are also briefly discussed, and a reference is made to several astronomical studies which could be carried out with a very high-power radar."
"A cathode-ray monoscope tube has been developed to provide output closely resembling the directivity pattern of a radar antenna. The variation of secondary electron emission from aluminum with angle of incidence is used as the basis for design of the monoscope target. The conical aluminum target is so shaped that variation of the target current with beam deflection corresponds to the variation of received radar signal with angular displacement of the radar antenna."
"This paper describes the behavior of a magnetron oscillator started in the presence of an externally applied rf exciting signal whose frequency is not greatly different from the unperturbed steady-state frequency of the magnetron. Two points of view are presented: First, quasi-steady-state starting is assumed, and a differential equation representing the system within this limitation is derived. Solutions obtained specify the phase of the oscillator as a function of time subsequent to starting. Second, the inhomogeneous Van der Pol equation is used to describe the system. The oscillator is represented as a parallel RLC circuit shunted by a negative, nonlinear conductance. Approximate analytical and differential analyzer solutions of this equation are used to investigate the frequency and phase transients during starting and distortion of the build-up envelope by the exciting signal. The initial conditions for both equations are established in terms of the exciting signal-topreoscillation noise ratio. Results of the two analyses are essentially in agreement; details of the solutions are different since reactive beam loading has been neglected in the latter case. The phase transient initiated during starting may have a duration which is long compared to the build-up time of the rf voltage on the magnetron anode. Preoscillation conditions which fix the initial phase play an important part in determining the phase for a considerable time subsequent to starting."
"A family of parallel-plate radar lenses is derived from an optical result of Luneberg. These lenses theoretically produce a beam with a straight wave front from a point source of microwave energy located at any point on a certain circle. A constant refractive index greater than one in the planar portion of the lens permits an inversely proportional smaller feed-circle radius. This provides the possibility of reducing feed-circle size to a point where rapid rotation of the source is feasible, producing rapid scan by the output beam."
"Space-charge waves in an accelerated or decelerated electron stream are studied in this paper using a one-dimensional small-signal approximation. Exact solutions are given for an idealized stream of infinite extent, accelerated or decelerated uniformly through a space where dc space-charge effects are assumed to be neutralized by positive ions. It is argued that the results obtained can be applied to streams of small diameter by use of an appropriate reduction factor on plasma frequency even in the absence of positive ions. The solution obtained indicates that space-charge waves on a decelerated stream grow in amplitude, and can thus provide a method for amplifying microwave signals. The amplifying mechanism which is discussed is one involving an electron stream which has a single value of velocity in any transverse plane, but which is decelerated and accelerated alternately by a set of properly spaced parallel electrodes. Three amplifiers of this type have been constructed and tested and the theoretical gain expression has been verified."
"In this paper a frequency-correction factor is proposed for Bethe's small-aperture coupling relation for a transverse diaphragm in a waveguide. Experimental data on many shapes and sizes of apertures have shown this factor to be highly accurate up to and somewhat above the resonant frequency of each aperture. Also included are approximate formulas for the resonant Q and the resonant length of an aperture, and for the effect of wall thickness."
"The dynamics of hollow or solid beams in axial magnetic fields are analyzed, assuming electrons do not cross each other radially. The focusing properties are due to the angular velocity, which depends on magnetic flux linkages in the beam and at the cathode. The position of the cathode in the magnetic field is thus of vital importance. Radial oscillations about an equilibrium radius are always stable in the presence of a magnetic field, and can be made stable even without a magnetic field. Design formulas are presented for two cathode arrangements; in the first the cathode is in a uniform magnetic field, while in the second it is inside a magnetically shielded structure. Special cases of each of these arrangements are considered. Limited experimental results confirm most of the theory presented, and indicate the possibility of focusing without a magnetic field over the beam."
"By induction on the Cayley-Hamilton theorem, a convenient and compact expression for the transmission matrix of an n-tuply iterated, 4-terminal passive network is obtained. The resulting expression is used for the analysis of the behavior of an iterated RC differentiating network. It is shown that such networks are of advantage in applications requring a very short effective time constant. The effective time constant of an n-tuply iterated structure is shown to be 2r/n(n+ 1), where r = RC is the time constant of the unit structure."
"A successive-approximations method is applied to the selection of network functions having desired magnitude and phase variation with frequency. The first approxination, the first set of pole and zero locations, can be selected on the basis of known solutions to similar problems or through use of a set of curves. In succeeding approximations the pole and zero locations are adjusted to decrease the deviation of the earlier approximations from the desired characteristics. The process adjusts the magnitude and phase characteristics simultaneously. Its flexibility permits accommodation of practical constraints not possible with other methods."
"The far-zone pattem of the symmetrically excited annular corrugated-surface antenna is shown to be uniform in the azimuthal direction and polarized in a direction perpendicular to the antenna surface, and to have the major lobe directed slightly above the plane of the antenna. An analysis of the antenna immersed in an infinite ground plane is presented and compared with experimental results on the antenna in a finite ground plane."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Lists the university and Institue representative by name."
"Lists the committee or group and Institue representative by name."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This article describes the duties, composition, and major operations of the Research and Development Board of the Department of Defense. This Board is the agency charged with co-ordination of the research and development programs carried on by the Army, Navy, and Air Force. In the article, particular attention is given to the activities and scope of the RDB's Committee on Electronics and to new developments, both military and nonmilitary, in the field of electronics. The author uses examples to illustrate the point that the application of science and technology to warfare is not a recent development. He warns against easy acceptance of the idea that new weapons and techniques will provide the answer to all the problems involved in our national defense, although the principal aim of the RDB and the research and development agencies of the armed forces is to provide our fighting men with the best possible weapons."
"A new instrument which is capable of determining and recording, over successive short time intervals, the mean-power level of complex audio waves of rapidly varying amplitude is presented. While designed primarily for research work with speech sounds, where variations of as much as 35 db in level within 1/ 100 of a second are not uncommon, the unit could be applied to the powerlevel analysis of any voltage wave varying with components fully within the audio range. The apparatus provides a representation of power level in decibels for the brief phonetic elements of speech or for other similar elements of widely varying amplitude, without confusion of data or ambiguity of interpretation."
"The basic method of specifying the performance of photographic materials is described. Some variables which affect the film performance and their relationship to video recording are discussed. Some common photographic terms used in video recording are defined."
"This paper describes a new single-sideband radio transmitter for transoceanic service which represents a substantial improvement over past design. Its important features include: (a) a frequency band which permits denrving four telephone channels, if desired; (b) a push-button method for changing frequencies within a matter of seconds; (c) an increase in power over its predecessor; and (d) all-around improved transmission performance."
"Considerations are given for designing high-frequency amplifiers whose performance will meet the high standards required for amplifying multichannel signals. A relationship between tone and speech data is presented to show how the tone rating of the amplifier can be determined from the speech rating and interchannel modulation noise requirements. Some of the factors which influence distortion and some methods of reducing such distortion are also discussed."
"This paper deals with considerations that go into the design of modulation equipment for a single-sideband radiotelephone transmitter in which filters are used for sideband suppression. Balance requirements, frequency stability, the choice of intermediate frequencies, and methods of avoiding transmission of spurious frequencies are among the factors which are discussed."
"A new type of single-sideband transmitter is described which does not require the use of linear radio-frequency amplifiers. Amplification is accomplished by a process in which the phase-modulation component of the single-sideband wave is amplified by means of Class-C amplifiers, and the amplitude envelope is restored at the final amplifier. Experimental results show performance equal to or better than conventional linear radio-frequency amplifier practices. The over-all efficiency is approximately the same as that of a double-sideband amplitude-modulated transmitter. This system is especially suitable for high-power operation."
"A description is given of a direct-reading frequency-measuring equipment which enables precise frequency measurements between 30 cps and 30 mc to be carried out in one second. The measuring device itself consists of an electronic counter ranging from 30 cps + 1 mc, an instrument giving multiples of 1 mc in the range from 1 + 29 mc and a combining part. The whole has only one knob, namely, that for choosing the desired multiple of 1 mc. The result of a measurement is indicated on the electronic counter and on the knob. When taking a series of measurements, the results are printed on a normal page printer, one measurement every two seconds. If desired, a continuous recording instrument may be used for the registration of every two out of the six figures of electronic counter. The accuracy when making a measurement in one second equals the precision of the second impulse derived from the frequency standard (10-7 to 10-8) plus or minus 1 cps. To enable measurements on far-off telephone or telegraph transmitters to be made, the equipment is completed with a receiver, ranging from 5÷30 mc. In this case the accuracy is somewhat less. The maximum deviation is, however, always below plur or minus 5 cps."
"A retarding field oscillator which tunes over the range from 8,000 to 15,000 mc is described. Energy is taken from the tube by allowing the repeller, which is part of the resonant circuit, to radiate into a waveguide. Results for both inductive and capacitive tuning are discussed. With capacitive tuning, the efficiency of the oscillator is between 2 and 4 per cent over the entire range, with maximum efficiency occurring near the highest frequency."
"A new cold-cathode, high-voltage rectifier is described. Both theory and extensive experimental data are included. The operation of the tube is based upon an improved type of electron trapping similar to that occurring in a cylindrical magnetron in the cutoff condition, but augmented because of the use of end plates on the cathode. Mercury vapor is used, which at normal operating temperatures, provides a gas at a pressure of from 10-3 to 10-2 mm of Hg. Because of this low pressure and the small dimensions of the tube, ionization is inhibited when the cathode is positive, and highpeak inverse voltages are possible. However, when the anode is positive, the improved electron trapping results in conduction in spite of the low pressure and small dimensions. Experimentally, this rectifier has been operated up to 40-kv peak inverse voltage. Life tests at 30-kv peak inverse voltage and a current of 0.4 ma, at 60 cps, have run to 3,000 hours. Satisfactory operation has been obtained over a temperature range from 20 to 80 degrees C. The upper frequency limit lies between 120 and 240 kcps. This tube appears to offer, for the first time, a practical cold-cathode rectifier for output voltages up to 14 kv and currents up to one ma. Its advantages are particularly valuable in the case of voltage-multiplier rectifier circuits, since high-voltage insulated cathode-heater transformer windings are not necessary."
"The over-all frequency response and loss of the transducers of a delay line are derived from Roth's equivalent circuit. The transient response of a delay line is computed from an equivalent transmission-line circuit. The bandwidths and transient responses measured on practical delay lines are given for comparison with theoretical values."
"An unambiguous quotation of crystal data is proposed combined with some numerical values of much-used quartz cuts. The aim is to prevent a misunderstanding which sometimes exists about maximum electrical loading of piezoelectric elements."
"It is shown that, apart from having intrinsically lower efficiency, two- and four-segment magnetrons differ very little in characteristics from multisegment types if the ratio of cathode-to-anode diameter is the same in each case. High efficiency, comparable under some conditions to that of multisegment magnetrons, can be obtained from tubes having few segments when the cathode is relatively much smaller. This results in a number of observable differences between the behavior of the two types, notably a variation of efficiency with diameter in two- and four-segment tubes, which is accompanied by nonconformity to the voltage scaling laws."
"By the use of a direct-current feedback network which minimizes variations in plate current, the output of a radiofrequency amplifier can be made to be independent of heater-voltage fluctuations. Under- or over-compensation may be obtained by choice of circuit components to meet individual requirements. The design procedure for this network is indicated, and the experimental results for a compensated 30-mc broad-band intermediate-frequency amplifler are shown."
"From the design equations developed, a radial-conductor ground system may be constructed which will provide maximum power radiated per dollar of over-all cost. The fundamental equations are particularly applicable to any installation operating in the frequency range below 1,000 kc. A radial-conductor ground system based on the design parameters here presented will assure low-frequency antenna efficiencies of 50 per cent or better as compared to efficiencies of 25 per cent or less usually encountered in similar antennas without such a ground system. A technique for achieving optimum design of radial-conductor ground systems was developed. Curves were prepared which facilitate the determination of optimum spacing and length of the ground radials. A typical computation is included."
"The method of Hallen as modified by King and Middleton is applied to the case of the receiving dipole antenna whose axis is parallel to the electric vector of a far-zone field. First-order formulas are given for gain and broadside back-scattering cross section. Measured values of broadside gain and of broadside back-scattering cross section for both unloaded and matched-loaded dipoles are compared with the theory."
"An experimental investigation has been made of the characteristics of single- and multi-iris rectangular structures of various dimensions in a thin diaphragm which is placed transversely across a rectangular, standard S-band waveguide. The irises (or windows) are parallel to the \"aa\" dimension of the waveguide, and varied in position along the \"b\" dimension of the waveguide. Measured values of resonant frequency, bandpass and Q, and the correlation between single- and double-iris structures are presented as a function of the position of the iris in the diaphragm. Data are also presented for other parameters of interest, such as the impedance. It is shown that the Q of a single iris of fixed dimensions in the center of a thin diaphragm can be appreciably increased by moving it closer to the wide waveguide wall. In addition, a low-Q multi-iris structure can be realized in which the Q of each iris is comparatively high."
"It is shown that surface waves are actually contained in complete solutions of excitation problems of cylindrical surface waveguides. The total field can be divided into surface waves and a supplementary field; these field components satisfy certain orthogonality relations between each other. The amplitude of a surface wave which is excited by a dipole or any other power source can be determined without solving the entire excitation problem."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The most conservative figures on the shortage of engineers suggests that this shortage is now around 95,000 and will reach 156,000 by 1955. A less conservative view of the figures available suggests that this situation might be much worse. The number of new engineers now being produced each year may be actually less than the number lost to engineering activities through death, military service, and transfer to nonengineering duties. We might be 300,000 engineers short by 1955. Since it takes four years to train an engineer, all we can do during the next four years is to make better use of the engineering manpower which will be available. But high-school students are being discouraged from entering the fields of science and engineering by misleading statements of prominent people that science and engineering are the cause of the world's troubles. Engineers and scientists can do much to remove this misapprehension by pointing out that scientists and engineers also work for human welfare and that science and engineering are helping to solve the world's troubles rather than causing them. This must be done and additional scholarship funds be made available before the downward trend in engineering and science enrollments is reversed."
"Clogston has discovered that if a conductor is properly laminated, there exists a particular phase velocity along the conductor for maximum penetration of the fields and minimum loss due to skin effect. An experimental coaxial line was constructed whose center conductor was laminated and whose phase velocity could be varied by changing the dielectric constant of the main dielectric. As predicted by theory, the measured attenuation was critically dependent upon phase velocity. With optimum phase velocity the attenuation, though greater than predicted by theory, was less than that of a conventional coaxial cable of the same dimensions and same main dielectric. A theoretical analysis of the experimental laminated conductor is described in an appendix."
"Significant advances have been made in the development of new types of transistors, photocells, and rectifiers and in the improvement of the reproducibility and reliability of the point-contact transistor. A key factor in this development has been the use of single-crystal germanium having a high degree of lattice perfection and compositional control. Of particular interest to the device-development engineer is the fact that the rectifying barriers between the p-type and n-type sections behave in a manner predictable from the measured properties of each section. The exceptionally long lifetime of injected carriers observed in the material and the high degree of control over its chemical composition make it ideally suitable for the production of p-n structures. The ranges of properties of germanium single crystals which are now realizable are given, as well as their present degree of control."
"It has been known for many years that the visual acuity of the human eye for color differences is less than that for changes in brightness. It has been shown that this fact can be used to reduce the bandwidth required for simultaneous color television systems. The experiments reported here relate to psychophysical measurements made by both skilled and lay observers to determine just how far this reduction can be carried without objectionable deterioration of the reproduction. It is shown that under the conditions tested, approximately 1 mc is sufficient for most color reproduction, provided 4 mc are available for brightness detail."
"This paper describes a single-sideband multiplexing system which has brought multiple-channel radio telephony into a new economic range for toll-circuit use. Problems of interchannel modulation and noise have been solved with simple, economical carrier and radio equipment. While this paper is concerned primarily with the multiplexing method, sufficient specifications on the radio transmitter and receiver are included to permit comprehension of the system as an integrated whole."
"Moiré effects which may arise in aperture-mask tricolor kinescopes are spurious intensity variations in the picture in the nature of beat patterns between the scanning lines and the aperture array in the shadow mask. The visibility of these effects depends on the relative mapitudes of the scanning-line width, mask-aperture size, aperture spacing, and line separation, on the orientation of the scanning pattern relative to the mask, and, finally, on the picture content. For the narrow aperture spacing normally employed (e.g., 215,000 apertures in a rectangular picture area of 104 square inches or 195,000 apertures in the somewhat smaller area defined by the framing mask) and for the preferred orientation of the scanning pattern, however, the moiré effects are negligible. They may become noticeable, in the form of dot or bar patterns, if the aperture spacing is increased or the orientation of the scanning pattern relative to the mask is changed. The variation in the line transmission of the mask indicates directly the degree to which the mask may distort transmitted intensity values. It increases with a reduction in the ratios of line width and aperture diameter to aperture spacing and with a departure from the preferred orientation of the scanning pattern relative to the mask. Again, for the preferred orientation and within the range of spot sizes required for optimum resolution, the variation in line transmission is negligible-1 per cent or less."
" H.H. Davids, of the General Electric Company, Electronics Park, Syracuse, NY, USA has brought the following errors to the attention of the editors. On page 413 of the article entitled, \"Radio Progress during 1951,\" which appeared in the April 1952, issue, there is a reference (389), T.S. Eader, \"Equipment performance specs,\" FM-TV, vol. 11, pp. 22-24, 38-39; September, 1951. The author of this article should be H.H. Davids. Similarly, in the section, \"Abstracts and References,\" the author of the item (745), \"A New Method of Predicting the Adjacent Channel Performance of Mobile Radio Equipment by Graphical Analysis,\" is also H.H. Davids, not T.S. Eader."
"General types of rectifier computing circuits are described and analyzed. Stress is placed upon the realization of the highest speed of operation. Selenium-rectifier elements are used throughout, although the same analysis applies to all other types of rectifiers. A speed of 100 kc obtlainable from selenium rectifiers. Megacycle operation is possible. Special techniques of circuit construction are developed which result in a simple, compact, and economical system, applicable not only to large-scale digital computing machines but also to complicated control systems."
"Wide-angle picture tubes, high anode voltages (reduced magnification and beam divergence), and the need for material conservation prompt replacement of magnetic with electrostatic focusing. There are considerable advantages in a unipotential lens focusing system designed to obtain optimum focus with the focusing electrode operating at 0 to 5 per cent of the anode voltage instead of at the customary 20 per cent. The focusing electrode may then be connected to the cathode or to a potentiometer across the low voltage dc supply of the television set. A successful tube design is discussed and operating characteristics given. The voltage breakdown problem, which is stringent owing to the high-voltage gradients at prevalent high anode voltages, is considered."
"A system is described for measunng the dielectric constant of a gas at uhf by observing the shift in resonant frequency of a cavity when filled with the gas to be measured. To do this, a klystron oscillator is stabilized with great precision on the cavity resonant frequency by means of a double-loop servo system. One loop is of the Pound type, which is effective against almost all frequency fluctuations. The other is a motor-type control which further reduces any small, steady, frequency error left by the electronic Pound loop. The two combine to give control that is better than one part in 108, and this is sufficient to obtain values of (no-1), where no is the index of refraction, accurate to three places."
"By the use of Laplace transforms, the author derives the expression of the current flowing in an RLC series resonant circuit under the excitation of an emf, the frequency of which follows a sawtooth law. He shows that the response is composed of two terms, one arising during each sweep, the other resulting from the preceding sweeps. The bandwidth at -3 db of the circuit is introduced as a general parameter, and some curves obtained by graphical integration are given and compared with curves computed by other authors. The influence of the limits of exploration is discussed."
"Because of its high-power handling capacity, the interdigital circuit has been considered for use in traveling-wave-type amplifiers. An analysis is presented here which indicates that this type of circuit can be arranged to give constant phase velocity over a wide bandwidth (30 per cent), as required to give constant gain. The analysis is qualitatively checked experimentally. The impedance parameter (proportional to the cube of the gain in db) is approximately the same as the flattened helix (such as has been used for the magnetron amplifier) and about one-third that of the conventional circular helix."
"The spectrum of an oscillator is examined experimentally and theoretically under conditions where the oscillator frequency is disturbed by a stable signal injected into the oscillator circuit."
"The present note aims to demonstrate the relative significance of rise time and percentage energy content in the reproduction of rectangular pulses. Formulas are derived and their dependence upon various factors discussed. It is also shown that the rise time for periodic rectangular pulses is in general not the same as that for a step signal or a single transient pulse; it depends upon the number of harmonic components, the pulse repetition period, and the pulse duration in a more complicated way."
"This paper presents some dominant wave transmission characteristics of multimode round waveguide lines in the 4-kmc range of frequencies. The use of such waveguide lines offers the advantages of lower transmission losses than obtainable with single-mode rectangular waveguide, and relative ease of making good joints. Possible mode conversion effects, including dominant mode elliptical polarization, have been examined and found to be innocuous. As a result, cross-polarized dominant waves can be used to provide two reasonably independent signalling channels at the same frequency in one pipe. The experimental results obtained with a straight line 2.812-inch inside diameter and length of 150 feet are given."
"Two analog devices are described which are useful in solving the approximation problem of network synthesis. Both devices utilize a sheet of conducting Teledeltos paper to produce a two-dimensional potential field which simulates a required network function. The first device simulates the gain and phase of a network, and is primarily useful in designing networks for a prescribed steadystate response. The second device simulates the real part of the function, and is useful in designing networks for a prescribed transient response."
"Several causes of changes in field intensity of cw signals are outlined and their identification by the use of pulses discussed. Results of comparisons of cw and pulse records are given for a winter-type record and a summer-type record and characteristics due to several of the listed causes are identified."
"The mean-square optimization problem is stated for time-varying systems with nonstationary statistical input functions. Correlation functions are defined for nonstationary ensembles. The mean-square error is calculated in terms of these correlation functions. The integral equation defining the optimum system is determined by minimization of the mean-square error."
"A method is described for obtaining approximate second-order self- and mutual impedances of parallel identical antennas. Extensive groups of curves of the newly determined impedances are provided. Since they lead to the second-order King-Middleton impedances for isolated antennas at infinite separation, and these are known to be in excellent agreement with experimental measurements, they are necessarily more accurate than the first-order or zeroth-order values thus far available, which do not lead to experimentally verifiable impedances at infinite separation except for extremely thin antennas."
"A one-turn helical antenna designed to produce axial radiation is linearly polarized. A similar antenna can be made circularly polarized by suitable resistance loading. This paper presents a method of producing circular polarization by resistance loading a 1¼-turn helix."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A new approach to the design of crystal units for primary frequency standard use has resulted in crystal units in the 3- to 20-mc frequency range characterized by high Q and low capacitance in the series arm of the equivalent electrical circuit. By utilizing the overtone frequency of specially shaped AT-cut quartz plates, both Q and the rate of impedance change with frequency are enhanced together, and in addition the stability with time of the crystal unit is increased because of a larger frequency-determining dimension. Additional characteristics of the crystal units include small size, stability under conditions of vibration and shock, and low-temperature coefficient. Crystal-oscillator stabilities of one part in 108 per month have been achieved without recourse to stabilized circuits."
"The introduction of all coaxial ring-seal terminals, a thoriated cathode, a re-entrant anode with integral coolant jacket, and a novel assembling technique has facilitated the development of a new power triode for 50-kw rf output up to 110-mc frequency. Increased power output ratings are available at lower frequencies. The bandwidth is suitable for television broadcasting. Design requirements are reviewed for optimum electrode geometry, heat-dissipating ability, minmum lead inductance, high rf conductivity of the vacuum seals, and other desiderata for high-power, high-frequency service. Mechanical features are described, and the circuit performance of the tube is discussed for lower frequencies as well as the vhf region."
"A radically different type of magnetron is described in which the positions of the cathode and the anode segments are inverted from those in ordinary magnetrons. The direction of curvature of the interaction space of this magnetron is therefore opposite that of conventional magnetrons. Electronic efficiencies of 50 to 80 per cent have been measured on these structures and static input impedances as low as 60 ohms have been observed on high-power pulse tubes. Sound scientific basis is provided for the use of the parallel-plane magnetron interaction space in new microwave devices."
"When the RF power distribution along a bolometer wire differs from the low-frequency power distribution, the substitution method of measurement may give an error unless certain special conditions are satisfied. These conditions are most closely fulfilled, in practice, by a convectively cooled wire whose length to diameter ratio is very large. The possible error for the case of a Wollaston wire mounted in air at atmospheric pressure is analyzed and compared with that obtained with wires mounted in vacuo. It is shown that the air-mounted Wollaston wire is subject to a smaller error than are the evacuated units and that this advantage increases as the wire length becomes an appreciable fraction of a wavelength. It is concluded that Wollaston wire bolometers, when properly designed and mounted, can be used to measure cw power over a frequency range extending into the millimeter wavelength region with an accuracy approaching that of low-frequency measurements."
"Research on the characteristics of atmospherics peculiar to tornadoes has been in progress at the Oklahoma Agricultural and Mechanical College since 1947. It has been discovered that high-energy thunderstorms which develop into tornadoes generate discharges with a preponderance of frequencies in the 200- to- 400-kc band. The number of these discharges increases as tornado time is approached."
"During 1948 and 1949, the National Bureau of Standards conducted continuous, broad-directivity measurements of the cosmic radio noise intensities at frequencies between 25 and 110 mc. Their purpose was to evaluate the importance of this noise from the standpoint of its interference with radio communication. The results show a regular daily variation in noise corresponding to the movement of the principal sources of cosmic radio noise across the antenna receiving pattern. This normal cosmic noise intensity pattern was found to be constant within the limits of the accuracy of the measurements. It was found convenient to present the results in terms of daily maxima and minima which bracketed the daily variations. No measurable change in these limits was observed in the course of these measurements. Besides the normal cosmic radio noise, penrods of abnormal high noise levels, generally associated with periods of unusual solar activity, were observed and recorded."
"An important question connected with surface-wave transmission lines is the interaction between them or with other wires which act like surface waveguides. An analysis is made of two parallel lines with the provision that the coupling is small. When the two lines are identical, there is maximum interaction, and under suitable conditions, complete power transfer from one line to the other occurs. The analysis is supplemented by typical examples."
"A high-frequency sky-wave propagation experiment, carried out on November 19, 1944 by the Institute of Physics, Luftkriegsakademie, Gatow, in co-operation with the Deutsche Reichspost, is described. Signals of duration of 10 to 12 msec were transmitted at 0.5-sec intervals from DLO, Rehmate (near Berlin) on 19,947 kc so that echoes which travelled repeatedly around the earth might be studied. The signals were simultaneously observed and recorded with a cathode-ray oscillograph on moving film at Randers, Denmark, 480 km, and at Gatow, 50 km, from the transmitter. The time intervals measured ranged from 0.1376 to 0.1384 sec between first and second circuits, and are shown graphically together with their individual amplitudes. Periodic fades of the echoes are correlated with multiple paths of propagation and the vertical motions of the ionospheric reflector. The high field intensity of repeated signals is evidence of strong focusing of the hf energy since the propagation seems to occur in a narrow great-circle beam"
"An electrolytic-tank method of measurement developed in a previous paper has been used to obtain extensive data on the electric polarizability of apertures of various practical shapes. These shapes include rectangular slots, rounded slots, crossed slots, rosettes, and dumbbells. The measured values are presented in this paper in both graphical and tabular form. The accuracy is believed to be of the order of one or two per cent."
"It is shown that the backward wave in a directional coupler is related to the shape of the function describing the coupling between tansmission lines by the Fourier transform. This facilitates the design of directional couplers for arbitrary directivities over any prescribed frequency band. Tightly coupled directional couplers are analyzed in simple terms, and it is shown that any desired loss ratio, including complete power transfer between lines, may be achieved. The theories are verified using waveguide models operating at 4,000, 24,000, and 48,000 mc, and it is indicated that the work is applicable to many types of electrical and acoustic trnsmission lines."
"There is a general type of system in which an indefinitely large number of transmitters can have access to any of an indefinitely large number of receivers over a medium of limited bandwidth. In these systems, signal-to-noise ratio goes down as more transmitters are used simultaneously. This paper describes a particular system which sends samples by means of coded pulse groups sent at random times. The signal-to-noise ratio is good in the absence of interference and the effect of interference is minimized by holding the previous sample if a sample is lost. An experimental system worked satisfactorily and gave close to the predicted signal-to-noise ratio. Such a system might be used to provide communication and automatic switching in rural telephony, or for other applications."
"Differential phase shift between two orthogonal TE11 waves in a circular hollow waveguide is achieved with a reflectionless array of capacitive pins. Using transmission-line theory, an analysis of such a structure is made and, under the assumption that the pin susceptance varies with frequency as jωC, a broad-band 3-pin array acting as a quarter-wave plate may be designed. Such an array, which is only one inch long at X-band, has been tested. A voltage ellipticity ratio of less than 1.1 and vswr less than 1.2 is maintained over a 12-per cent band."
"A linear multiplex system is defined as one in which the separation of signals belonging to different channels is achieved by the use of linear, time-variant or time-invariant, filters. It is shown that a fundamental property of such systems is that the sets of signals associated with their respective channels are linear and disjoint. Conversely, signals that belong to linear and disjoint sets can be transmitted simultaneously and separated at the receiving end by means of linear, generally time-variant, filters. It is shown that frequency-band compression cannot be achieved with a linear system. In geometrical terms, the extraction of signals belonging to a specified channel may be regarded as the projection of the signal space on the manifold corresponding to the channel in question along a complementary manifold. The filtering process is formulated in analytical terms via the λ-domain technique. Methods of synthesizing linear multiplex systems of other than the conventional frequency- or time-division types are indicated."
"An optimum method of coding an ensemble of messages consisting of a finite number of members is developed. A minimum-redundancy code is one constructed in such a way that the average number of coding digits per message is minimized."
"Message transmission over a noisy channel is considered. Two linear networks are to be designed: one being used to treat the message before transmission and the second to filter the treated message plus channel noise at the receiving end. The mean-square error between the actual transmission circuit output and the delayed message is minimized for a given allowable average signal power by proper network design. Numerical examples are given and discussed."
"The tendency for energy to be converted out of the circular electric wave in bent round pipe may be avoided by one of three general approaches: (1) by removing the degeneracy between TE01 and TM11, (2) by converting to a normal mode of the bent guide at both ends of the bend, and (3) by utilizing dissipation in the unwanted modes to prevent power transfer to them. All three approaches are discussed. Normal attenuation in round pipe should be effective in moderating straightness requirements. Elliptical guide and special waveguide structures may be used to negotiate intentional bends; bending radii in the range one to 1,000 feet appear acceptable at 50,000 mc for waveguides 3/8-inch to 2 inches in diameter, respectively."
"The theory of the center-loaded receiving antenna is improved by introducing the expansion parameter of King and Middleton, and generalized to take account of a load consisting of a two-wire line with finite spacing. First-order formulas for the distribution of current are obtained, together with approximate second-order formulas for the complex effective length of the antenna. Theoretical results are compared with experiment."
"The polarization of the signal reaching a receiving antenna by the scattering mechanism proposed by Booker and Gordon is investigated. Equations are presented which give the response of dipole antennas oriented horizontally, vertically, and axially, relative to a linear polarized source. The relative response of the three antennas is calculated for selected values of the scattering parameters and a comparison made with the measured response of similar antennas to a 102.9-mc signal arriving over a path length of 147 miles."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The title page for this publication is presented."
"The AIEE Transactions for 1952 (volume 71) is published in three parts: Part I. Communication and Electronics; Part II. Applications and Industry; and Part III. Power Apparatus and Systems. Volume 71 contains the technical papers and related discussions presented at these meetings: 1. Winter General Meeting, New York, NY, USA, January 21-25, 1952; 2. South West District Meeting, St. Louis, MO, USA, April 15-17, 1952; 3. North Eastern District Meeting, Binghamton, NY, USA, April 30-May 2, 1952; 4. Summer General Meeting, Minneapolis, MN, USA, June 23-27, 1952; 5. Pacific General Meeting, Phoenix, AZ, USA., August 19-22, 1952; 6. AIEE Participation in Centennial of Engineering, Chicago, Ill., September 10-12, 1952; 7. Fall General Meeting, New Orleans, La., October 13-17, 1952; 8. Middle Eastern District Meeting, Toledo, Ohio, October 28-30, 1952. The papers presented at the first three meetings were issued as AIEE Proceedings. These papers have been correlated according to subject matter, and combined with the papers presented at the remaining meetings which were published in the three bimonthly publications inaugurated in July and August, comprise Parts I, II, and III of volume 71 of the 1952 Transactions. Ultimately each part of the Transactions will contain the same papers and discussions that will have been published in the six successive issues of the corresponding bimonthly publication."
"Equivalent circuits have been developed upon the recurrent voltage equations mathematically derived for reluctance machines. The application of these circuits to the analysis of induction and synchronous machines under various operating conditions has been illustrated. The essential feature of this development is to derive mathematically the voltage equations, in general form, relating the machine currents of different frequencies. These voltage equations will be designated recurrent voltage equations. Upon these recurrent voltage equations, the equivalent circuits can be constructed readily. The usefulness of the equivalent circuits developed for studying the machine operation is not only limited to reluctance machines but also extended to induction and synchronous machines as will be discussed subsequently. Many examples have been worked out, although only some are presented in this paper. Results thus obtained, after simplification, have been found in agreement with those presented by previous investigators. The equivalent circuit study is a more general and straightforward approach giving more desired information."
"In power machinery and other heavy equipment laboratories there is a universal need for a compact, rugged, yet flexible and continuously variable rheostat suitable for use on low voltage. The requirements for this rheostat are: dc motor starting, dc and ac single and 3-phase loading, wound-rotor induction motor speed control, and many other applications. These requirements were met by the design of a balanced 3-phase equivalent delta circuit water rheostat which also may be used in dc and single-phase circuits. Each 3-phase rheostat consists of a 7-electrode assembly held stationary within a single tank, and the resistance is changed by varying the water level with respect to the electrodes. The electrolyte used in the rheostat is untreated city tap water that has an average resistivity of 4,600 ohms per inch cube at 20° Centigrade. Corrosion tests on nine different materials that are economically feasible for rheostat use showed that stainless steel was the most resistant to electrolytic corrosion. The water level is changed by a positive displacement type pump driven by a 115-volt 3-phase induction motor. Potentials ranging from zero to 300 V can be satisfactorily handled by the rheostat. With 230 V 3-phase applied, a single rheostat unit will dissipate 75 kw; although the measurements of the tank are only 14 by 27 in x 36 in high. With 77 V 3-phase applied to the rheostat, the maximum power dissipated in a single rheostat is 10 kw."
"The Subject Committee on Line Outages was formed jointly in 1947 by the Transmission and Distribution Committees of the Edison Electric Institute (EEI) and the AIEE to obtain fundamental operating data of transmission line outages. Previous line outage studies have considered special aspects of the subject. The present survey is intended to consider all types of line outages over a broad range of system voltages. The primary objectives are: 1. To obtain fundamental data as to the causes of present-day transmission line outages. 2. To correlate the cause of outages with the transmission line and system characteristics. 3. To summarize this information so as to provide assistance for transmission line design and operation. The scope of this survey is limited to overhead transmission circuits. The data used in the line outage study have been submitted by 62 operating companies which are classified in seven regions. The line outage report considers the physical data and line performance records of 689 transmission lines having a total of 33,796 miles of transmission line above 100 kV and embraces 236,666 mile-years of operating experience. These data are shown in detail in tabular form."
"This paper comprises an analytic study of dynamic voltages to be expected at the terminals of a tie-line circuit breaker during the separation of two parts of a system 180 degrees out of phase. Transient voltage crests have been investigated on the analogue computer for a typical system under faulted and unfaulted conditions and the results are compared with oscillographic records obtained on an actual power system. Finally, high power laboratory data obtained on modern high-voltage circuit breakers opening fault currents at twice normal voltage and higher are evaluated in the light of the maximum possible duty indicated by the analytic study."
"This paper discusses the purposes of a large number of circuit breaker tests of many domestic and foreign makes performed on the Bonneville Power System. The tests were made either for studying only the circuit breaker's operation in interruption of short-circuit current and of line charging current, or were part of over-all system tests including energization of new lines, setting of relays, et cetera."
"In March 1951 ultrahigh capacity field tests were made at Grand Coulee Power Plant on a 230-kv air-blast circuit breaker to further the development of high-voltage circuit breakers incorporating high-speed operation. Development from field tests in recent years has produced 230-kv 10,000,000-kva circuit breakers with the interruption taking place within oil. However, this is the first air-blast circuit breaker to be introduced to the American power industry in this voltage class and interrupting capacity. The tests proved that the air-blast circuit breaker is capable of interrupting the current of overhead lines without any restrikes and, therefore, without raising the voltage above the value on the line before the interruption. The circuit breaker interrupted well over its rated capacity of 6,000,000-kva symmetrical and 9,000,000-kva asymmetrical. The maximum interrupted power being 7,850,000-kva symmetrical and 10,500,000-kva asymmetrical, this was higher than any previous tests. The interrupting time was always well below 3 cycles. The absolute maximum was 2-72 cycles and the average about 2.4 cycles. The circuit breaker also interrupted these high values in high-speed reclosing operations with reclosing times of 13 to 14 cycles. The contacts were not changed or even inspected during the whole test series. After nine interruptions with an average power of substantially more than the rated capacity, contact erosion was extremely slight so that the same contacts could have withstood at least the same tests again. The tests have shown that the air-blast circuit breaker is capable of solving any problems arising in modern high-capacity networks."
"Although power circuit breakers are designed primarily to interrupt heavy inductive short-circuit currents, system growth in recent years has produced a greatly increased requirement of interrupting relatively lighter currents which are associated with the switching of capacitive kilovolt-amperes. This capacitive kilovolt-ampere requirement has manifested itself in long-distance high-voltage transmission lines, in relatively long high-voltage cables, and in large size shunt capacitor banks which are becoming a common fundamental unit in system design and operation.1-3 There is not necessarily a relationship between the ability of a circuit breaker to interrupt short circuit currents and its ability to switch capacitance currents. It is widely recognized that high-frequency voltage and current oscillations may be produced which, if uncontrolled, may result in damage to apparatus or system outages. In general, the problem is the severity of the system disturbances produced by the switching operation, either opening or closing, rather than the failure of the circuit breaker to interrupt the current or to close the circuit. It is the purpose of this paper to present: 1. Typical circuit breaker performance in switching capacitive kilovolt-amperes. 2. Circuit behavior and circuit breaker performance considerations from test laboratory and transient analyzer studies. 3. Criteria of acceptable circuit breaker performance in capacitive switching."
"This paper presents a discussion of the application of hydrostatic lubrication to pivoted pad thrust bearings during the starting period. Two systems, the externally pressurized system and the hydraulic lifting system have been used to provide an oil film between the bearing surfaces prior to starting. Current design features and practices of both systems are described. It is hoped that, as a result, the present discussion will be of service in furthering the understanding of the purpose and use of hydrostatic starting lubrication."
"A substantial improvement in the current carrying capacity of turbine-generator rotors is made possible by circulating the cooling medium directly in contact with the copper conductors. This system also permits effective use of higher hydrogen pressure and is applicable to units of large specific ratings without appreciably modifying operating procedure. Additional gains may be obtained similarly by applying the cooling scheme to stator coils."
"Performance calculations on single-phase induction motors require two to four times as much time as comparable calculations on polyphase motors. This paper describes MONECA, a new calculator developed especially for these calculations. It is based upon a new revolving-field equivalent circuit, but can be readily reconnected for many other different circuits. It has shortened the time for many present calculations, made practicable many calculations that were formerly too time-consuming, and has given its users a clearer concept of the revolving-field theory. It appears to have an almost unlimited number of future applications."
"The present paper proposes a method for the functional evaluation of insulation systems associated with random wound induction motors in the approximate range of 1 to 40 horsepower or with equipment using a similar insulation system. With this method, a measure of the performance of any motor insulation system can be ascertained for comparison with that of an acceptable standard and any new system may thereby be classified. A specific form of sample, or model motor, is described and a test cycle of repeated periods of exposure to heat, vibration, moisture, and voltage is proposed. By comparing the life of insulation systems, when exposed to repeated test cycles of this kind, with the life of complete motors under various accelerated and service conditions, it is believed that it will be possible to evaluate new insulating materials more quickly and accurately than heretofore possible."
"This paper reports an application of an approach to functional evaluation of insulating materials to small motor insulation. Tests on small motor stators indicated that a large number of failures occur in the windings rather than through the slot insulation to ground. In consequence, a magnet wire and varnish sample described previously3 has been used to determine the nature of such failures and the effect of factors such as moisture, contamination, and heat aging. The tests on these samples have formed a basis for setting up a test cycle for the actual motors."
"Data are presented from comparison of nondestructive and destructive tests on several synchronous generator stators ranging from 800 to 33,000 kva. It is shown that the breakdown voltage of the weakest point in a winding can be forecast nondestructively by insulation resistance tests at increasing voltages. A new method of stating dielectric-absorption effect is suggested and its value as a criterion of mechanical strength of hidden insulation is indicated. The detection and location of internal voids in coils, by ionization tests of established types, are described and comment is made on the relation of such voids to interturn and interstrand faults. The simple test equipment used is briefly described. A routine test program based on the findings is outlined. Proposals are given for lines of further study. Tests to date have been concerned chiefly with the varnish-bondedmica type of insulation, but there are indications of wider applicability."
"In making the decision to procure a network calculator for the exclusive use of this one company, the major factor, of course, was the increasing need for greater use and more immediate availability of such a tool for the solution of engineering planning problems. It was felt that the more work which could be done on an analyzer, the more precise the results would be, and the closer the construction program could match the actual requirements. There would be less reason for introducing a factor of safety to make up for the approximations introduced in the calculations. In the aggregate, this should result in a considerable saving. An indirect advantage in having such equipment installed locally, was less traveling and time away from the office for the personnel involved. The decision for the particular type of analyzer described in this paper was based largely on the hope that the design features incorporated would make it a more valuable aid in optimum system operation. There was also the desire to provide facilities for training young engineers and operators in the more effectual solution of engineering and operating problems. It is too early to say whether these aims will be accomplished, but there is every indication that they will be, at least to a significant degree. It is also too early to state definitely whether some of the departures from more conventional design will prove distinct advantages."
"This paper gives the maximum rate of rise of current on short circuit and inductance between main terminals for d-c machines for a wide range of size and ratings. It supplements a previous paper4 in which the maximum values of short circuit current were given. The paper also gives a summary of formulas for calculating transient performance of d-c machines and d-c power systems."
"This paper presents a method of analysis of commutation phenomena and application of the method to calculate the voltage appearing from bar-to-bar on the commutator during commutation. This is the voltage absorbed by the brush contact and which is zero for uniform contact voltage over the contact area of the brushes. The voltage is calculated as a function of time for a 2,250-horsepower 250 rpm 600-volt motor and curves are shown and compared with curves obtained by oscillograph tests. Oscillograph curves were obtained by connecting slip rings to each of a group of commutator bars and recording voltage from ring-to-ring under various conditions of load. Abrupt pulsations of voltage under the brushes appear in the calculated and test results. It is shown that perfect commutation in the sense of complete compensation of reactance voltage is associated with pulses of brush contact voltage so that nonuniform, pulsing contact voltage is a normal condition. Calculations of the type presented constitute new criteria for successful commutation."
"It is well recognized that sulfur-hexafluoride (SF6) possesses, even at relatively low pressures, superior insulating properties for high-voltage apparatus. Under certain conditions the dielectric strength of this gas can be superior to either liquid or solid insulating materials. During the last few years much experimental work has been done on the electrical and chemical properties of this gas. These and other pertinent data are presented herewith. Of particular importance are the data obtained on the physiological effect of the decomposition products of SF6 gas when it is subjected to heavy short circuit arcs between bare electrodes and also in the presence of other insulating materials."
"It is the purpose of this report to present a correlated study of the a-c resistance characteristics of segmental cables installed in steel pipe, covering the practical range of size from 1,000,000 to 2,500- 000 circular mils, operating at 60 cycles. The report is based on data obtained in a joint research project conducted at Electrical Testing Laboratories, Inc. (ETL), under the sponsorship of the Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc., the Association of Edison Illuminating Companies (AEIC), and the Edison Electric Institute (EEI), and supplemented by data obtained in the laboratories of cable manufacturers. The total data available have been studied by a working group of the Cable Characteristics Subcommittee to establish underlying theory and theoretical or empirical relationships between values of effective resistance which may be calculated in air using accepted equations and values which may be expected in pipe. Working equations for the calculation of values in pipe are presented in this report."
"All field tests conducted on this carrier equipment have served to confirm the superiority of frequency modulation (FM) for power-line carrier service. The equipment operates through severe noise conditions, and although there may be large changes in radio-frequency (rf) signal levels, the received audio level remains unchanged. The lower power transmitters along with the highly selective receivers and controlled intermodulation and desensitization provide a system which has a range exceeding older types of amplitude modulation (AM) equipment. This equipment is flexible in its application and is extremely well-fitted to multiple-use assignments. It may be used on power lines or on telephone lines according to the dictates of the system requirements. The aperiodic coupling unit provides a completely new approach to the problem of coupling a number of units to the same line or to multiple frequency by-passes and multiple line interconnections without a large number of critical adjustments."
"Available information on spark-over of large gap spacings extends to about 100 inches for rod gap and insulator strings. With the extension of system voltages it appears desirable to extend this range. Results of tests with 60-cycle and impulse voltages are described for rod gaps, insulator strings, and sphere gaps."
"When the turn-ratios of transformers differ from the ratios of nominal values assigned to the different voltage levels of transmission, the a-c network analyzer representation of a transmission system requires autotransformers. The currents flowing in the latter form quite a large percentage of the total current entering the network and consequently the auto-transformer currents cannot be ignored. Their resultant is subdivided into a no-load current and a turn-ratio current. The no-load current is neglected and the turn-ratio current is eliminated from view by a transformation. Afterward the steps given in the first part of this serial for setting up the loss equations L = MP are retraced here. A change occurs only in the calculation of C23. A numerical example appears in reference 1."
"Increased use has been made recently of high resistance neutral grounding of generators which operate in unit connection on high-voltage bus bars. High resistance grounding is achieved by connecting a constant resistance between the secondaries of a distribution transformer, the primaries of which are connected to the generator neutral and to ground. Replacing this resistance by one of nonlinear characteristic improves the protection by reducing the dead zone. Ground protection of the complete winding, including the neutral, may be achieved by introducing permanent neutral displacement by means of a small distribution transformer."
"The purpose of this paper is to present a method for the determination of inductive and capacitive unbalance for untransposed transmission lines. To accomplish this purpose, the conventional methods of symmetrical components are used. It is shown that the negative and zero-sequence currents in an untransposed line are functions of the positive-sequence load current, charging current, and line configuration. Calculated values of negative- and zero-sequence currents for typical configurations of high-voltage transmission lines are presented."
"In this paper a method is presented for calculating the limits of self-excitation in capacitor induction motors when the motors are disconnected from the power source and operating at constant speed. Practical means are suggested for the suppression of self-excitation and test data are given which confirm the soundness of the conclusions."
"Following a method due originally to Stalhane and Pyk,1 the thermal resistivity of soil may be measured in situ by thrusting a long heated needle into the ground to the required depth and measuring its temperature every 30 seconds for 15 to 30 minutes. The slope of the resulting temperature versus time curve on semilog paper is proportional to the thermal resistivity of the soil, and the constant of proportionality is derivable theoretically. The finite diameter of the needle is taken into account by adjusting the zero time to a value found by plotting dt/dθ against t. The effects of the finite length of the needle are difficult to assess but appear to be unimportant for the duration of a typical determination. Resistivity values obtained agree with those obtained by the steady-state method. A crew of three can make determinations at the rate of one to three per hour."
"The usual assumption that the constant voltage busses of a 2-machine stability problem are connected by pure reactances results in a number of approximations which may or may not be valid. On the other hand, if complicating factors such as losses, intermediate loads, transformer taps, and so forth are included, the process of obtaining a solution may become very laborious indeed. The method of solution described in this paper preserves accuracy by permitting the consideration of all system parameters- including the inertia of both machines without approximation. Yet the procedure is relatively simple, even when line reclosure is to be considered in the switching schedule. Part of the simplification is due to the utilization of generalized swing curves to determine relative angle and velocity at any time during the swing. Similar curves have been described previously, but the present method of derivation removes the former restrictions as to type of system disturbance for which they are applicable. This method is well adapted to the accurate determination of transient power limits because the computations involve sets of composite general circuit constants, which need not change as the power transfer in the system is varied. Consequently, they and many auxiliary quantities need be computed only once. An auxiliary curve provides a quantitative measure of the degree of stability or instability of the system."
"Previous papers1,2 have reported lightning investigations conducted at the Empire State Building in New York City during the years 1935 through 1940. During 1941, 1947, 1948, and 1949 further data were obtained on all lightning stroke characteristics. This paper presents a summary of all data obtained during the 10 years in the form of frequency curves."
"Sleet loading on transmission lines became a serious problem during the early growth of the New England Electric System. As a result, a method was devised to prevent ice from accumulating on conductors of the then existing lines, and basic changes were made in the design of projected lines for greater reliability during icing conditions. This paper describes the types of sleet-thawing operations developed for the protection of lines vulnerable to damage and also power requirements, operating features, and safety precautions to both personnel and power-supply equipment."
"A method is presented for testing the serviceableness of the interlaminar insulation in the core of a synchronous machine stator. The proposed test requires only the installation of a test winding to magnetize the core. A simplified method is described for the design of the test winding."
"This contribution to the discussion of the fire risks of transformers is limited to tests on the materials which enter the apparatus and their probable behavior. Comparisons are made regarding flammability of the solid insulations, as well as the gases evolved from them. These gases are analyzed for chemical composition and volume, and calculations made regarding their probable action in a transformer. The flammability characteristics of the various classes are shown to overlap to a considerable degree, especially for the insulation classes B and H. This emphasizes the fact that insulation classes are intended to define temperature limitations as regards aging, but do not necessarily classify flammability."
"Circuit-breaker engineers are challenged by the demands for ever-increasing interrupting capacities of power circuit breakers, increases required as load growth and nation-wide system interconnections are planned. Within the past 10 years the maximum interrupting ratings of high-voltage circuit breakers has tripled and the ceiling is not yet in sight. These high interrupting capacities represent substantial increases in the duty imposed on the operating mechanism, for the magnetic forces alone imposed on the contacts of a circuit breaker multiply as the squares of the short-circuit current. Modern operating requirements which add to the duty of the circuit-breaker operating mechanism are the requirements for circuit clearing in 3 cycles and repetitive reclosing in intervals as fast as 15 cycles. These necessitate the control of accelerating and decelerating forces considered extreme a few years ago. With these new demands for operating requirements is a matching development in circuit breakers. This paper describes the development and design of a new operating mechanism offered to meet the advanced specifications of high-voltage circuit breakers. As specified, this mechanism is required to control the circuit-breaker contacts for circuit clearing in 3 cycles. Successive reclosing operations are to be completed in intervals as short as 15 cycles without intentional time delay. The operating mechanism continues to be mechanically trip-free during any operation and is suitable for application to the largest tank-type circuit breakers now listed in the standards. The methods used for satisfying these requirements are described."
"Power-factor and insulation-resistance measurements are aids in controlling the quality of transformer insulation in the factory. These measurements are affected by a number of factors, which must be considered in their evaluation. Some of these factors are related to the quality of the insulation and some are not. Moisture is a harmful contaminant that may be detected by these measurements. An experimental investigation of the effect of moisture on the power factor, insulation resistance, dielectric absorption characteristics, and the dielectric strength is reported. A correlation has been found between moisture content, as indicated by these measurements, and the 1-minute 60-cycle strength, the 7-hour 60-cycle strength, and the impulse strength of oil impregnated press-board. The results of a number of power-factor measurements on completed oil, Inerteen, and air-insulated transformers are summarized. Finally, there is a description of how dielectric measurements are applied in helping to control the quality of transformer insulation in the factory."
"The principles and practical results of a greatly simplified and much improved method of measuring subtransient and negative sequence reactances of generators are explained. This method is based upon the acceptance of methods now approved in an AIEE Standard1 and a Westinghouse reference book2 for measurement respectively of direct-axis and quadrature-axis subtransient reactances of salient-pole synchronous generators, and is subject to the same reasoning regarding the merits of testing with stationary rotor and with stator currents of lower than rated or saturated values. This is a radical modification of these methods; it avoids many serious mechanical and electrical difficulties, delays, and consequently some expense usually experienced in field testing and gives consistent and reliable results. No special test equipment is required. The method of making the test is described fully and the equations to be used in calculating the constants are given."
"The advantages of the method to be described in this paper are the following: 1. In the preparation of transmission loss tables for future transactions between interconnected companies, only the total interchange from one company to another usually is known while the amount of power flowing over each individual tie line generally is unknown. The method to be described requires only a knowledge of the total interchange of power from one company to another and the generation in each company and does not require that the power flowing over each individual tie line be known. 2. It is sometimes found that the representation of a group of interconnected companies may require more units than are available on a given analyzer. In the method to be described, each company may be studied individually, and transmission loss formulas for each individual company determined as described by G. Kron' and by L.K. Kirchmayer and G.W. Stagg. Transmission loss formulas for any desired radial interconnection of these individual companies are determined by operating on the loss formulas of the individual companies as described. 3. In the method to be presented, the loads in the individual companies may vary independently of each other. 4. The calculations and network analyzer measurements involved in determining a total loss formula for a group of interconnected companies are decreased by application of the methods described in this paper. A detailed theoretical development of these methods is given in the companion paper by G. Kron."
"Part III of the series lays down the foundations for the co-ordinated technical and economic study of several interconnected transmission systems. In particular, it establishes the basic equations of one isolated \"primitive\" division before it is interconnected with several others. The study merely introduces additional reference frames number 3.1 (between frames numbers 3 and 4) or frame number 6.1 (after frame number 6) that replace the several tie lines, extending between two neighboring divisions, by one \"hypothetical\" tie line carrying the resultant interchange power (the \"sum\" power) between the two divisions. All measurements and all numerical calculations, previously performed for each individual division, are taken over unaltered. The only change consists of the introduction of C3.13 (or C6.16). The concept of \"tensor\" equivalent circuits also is introduced to simplify the eventual representation of the large variety of power flow that may exist between the component divisions of an interconnected system. Numerical calculations of I2R losses in the component divisions of a large interconnected power system are given in a companion paper1 for various power-interchange conditions."
"Armature windings of a-c rotating machinery are expendable components, being subject to damaging influences of various natures which are becoming better understood. Tests of windings, which, because of failure or aging, become available for this purpose, contribute significant information for the design of the replacement windings or for new windings. An armature coil may fail because of some fault in the insulation between conductor and core; there are a number of different methods of investigating this insulation. Nondestructive tests include dielectric absorption at low direct-current voltages and insulation power factor at a-c potentials up to 10 kv which are commonly being applied. These methods are discussed. High-voltage d-c tests are becoming of increasing interest as possible nondestructive tests; these are discussed with special attention being made to correlate the d-c tests with high-voltage a-c proof tests. An armature coil may also fail because of turn-to-turn short circuit within a coil having good insulation over-all to the core. This type of incipient failure is not detectable by standard American Standards Association (ASA) dielectric tests. Destructive tests were made on the old generator windings being discussed to determine how well the turn-to-turn dielectric strength had been preserved."
"New types of transient equations and equivalent circuits are established for the small oscillation study of synchronous, induction and other rotating machines. In the new form it is possible to interconnect the transient hunting equivalent circuits of any number and types of rotating machines, transmission lines and stationary networks in any desired combination by mere inspection of the actual system, without any previous physical or analytical study. Furthermore, from the resultant equivalent circuit it is possible to write down by mere inspection again the transient hunting equations and transfer functions of the entire complex system, to be set up and solved on a digital or analogue computer, in conjunction with connected regulators and servomechanisms."
"The problems encountered in the conventional system of tuning have prompted the development of the broad-band coupling units described in this paper. It was desired to develop a coupling system, using a single coupling capacitor, which would provide an efficient connection to the power line for a large number of transmitters and/or receivers operating in the 50-kc to 200-kc region. Such a coupler also would provide an ideal unit for multi-frequency by-passes and for multiline interconnections."
"The electric-utility power generating capacity of the United States, since the founding of the industry some 70 years ago, has followed the astonishing pattern of doubling every 10 to 12 years. On this basis a bold prophet at the turn of the century would have predicted for today an installed capacity of about 75,000,000 kw-but who would have been so bold? Actually the figure is closer to 80,000,000, or one-half kw for every citizen. Can we have less courage today and say that in 1964 the power plants of this country will not have doubled again-to 160,000,000? In 50 years, the electric horsepower per industrial worker has increased sixteenfold, from one-half to eight. The factors that have caused this rise in electrical capacity are still at work, only more so. The country is growing, industries are expanding, homes and farms are using more electricity, everyone is becoming more power conscious: this is truly the age of electric power. The abbreviated record outlined in this article speaks for itself; it points to a future for power generation that will make the past appear as a prologue."
"The first phase of the problem of lightning protection of power systems from the damaging effects of lightning has been completed. A working knowledge of the parameters of the transients which may be applied to lines or apparatus as the result of lightning storms is now available from studies of natural lightning and its effects in various parts of the world through the use of devices especially designed for the purpose."
"Among the most significant present trends in steam-electric generating stations is the increasing use of larger single blocks of generation with higher steam conditions. Both these factors greatly increase the amount of auxiliary power required for single units of generation. It therefore seems appropriate to re-examine the present status of auxiliary power-system design and also to indicate how present practice can be extended to provide adequately for the much larger auxiliary power requirements of future generating units. It is concluded that: 1. With the increase in the size of generating units and the use of higher steam pressures, the auxiliary power required for a single generating unit may increase to 30,000 kw or more within the next few years. 2. An extension of present auxiliary power system designs using three auxiliary power busses at 4,160 volts will allow this amount of power to be handled within present circuit-breaker ratings. 3. The conventional radial auxiliary power system will continue to be most widely used because of its proven reliability and generally lower first cost. 4. Motor sizes that probably will be used in the next few years will not present a serious voltage regulation problem on 4,160- volt auxiliary power systems. 5. The use of grounded auxiliary power systems reduces the probability of multiple outages"
"Aluminum has been used as an electric conductor since the beginning of the electric power industry. Its use as a conductor material has been second to copper because of the lower conductivity and the difficulty encountered in making connections caused by the rapid oxidation of the material when exposed to air. Except in the case of transmission-line conductors, where weight is a major factor, aluminum found its primary use in light mechanical construction. Therefore its sections have been designed for efficiency in structural applications. When aluminum channels first were applied to station bus, the electric conductor grade of aluminum was rolled on the same machines as the structural shapes. Since these channels have not been designed with uniform thickness, the efficiency of space was much poorer with the aluminum than with the copper channels. Since copper in channel and tubular form would have no other application than as electric conductors, these sections have been designed primarily with that application in mind. When aluminum channels are used as electric conductors, thicker sections may be used more efficiently than with copper due to the greater effective depth of penetration in the material of higher resistivity. This allows, in many cases, the substitution of aluminum sections for copper of the same external dimensions for a given current carrying capacity. With the perfection of silver plating processes for aluminum, which give a plating equal to that applied to copper, the demand for application of aluminum is increasing."
"The application of switchgear equipment for use in high-capacity generating stations has always emphasized the necessity of insuring uninterrupted service. Power pools and the increased capacity of generator units has made this phase of power-station design more important than ever. Although station-type switchgear equipment today embraces certain basic features, the system designer must analyze each application, taking into consideration the location of the power plant in the system. Therefore, a knowledge of the various types of construction and the design of the co-ordinated details is required to select station-type switchgear that will give reliable and economical service."
"With the introduction of the automatic circuit recloser, it became necessary to consider the effects of a fault current repeated several times at short intervals upon the time current characteristics of a fuse link. The link goes through several sequences of heating and cooling, each application of the fault bringing a higher end temperature. This paper describes a study of the exact manner in which a fuse link behaves when such a series of repeated faults is impressed upon it. The temperature of the fuse link is traced as the fuse heats with the application of a fault, cools after the first interruption, and is brought to still higher temperatures by succeeding applications of the fault. In this manner it is possible to determine whether a fuse will blow or be damaged by a given sequence of repeated faults, or remain undamaged. Information also is presented for determining how co-ordination is affected by preloading and ambient temperature variations. A feature of this study is that damage to the link can be predicted for faults of insufficient duration to cause blowing. Equipment used for the tests is described."
"The use of the tray and trough system in large modern stations is a design which promises to reduce the initial installation cost of a large electric installation. The tray or trough system does not give as complete over-all safety and security from sabotage as does the conduit and duct system, unless an especial effort is made to isolate them completely by height or by installing a totally enclosed type; however, it has such advantages that the station layout designer can justify the design."
"The following discussion and closure were received too late to be included with the papers and discussions: \"Effect of a Modern Amplidyne Voltage Regulator on Underexcited Operation of Large-Turbine Generators\" [Author's closure of paper 52-164 by W.G. Heffron and R.A. Phillips, published in Power Apparatus and Systems, August 1952, pages 692-697] and \"Field Tests on 135-Kv 3,500,000-Kva Low-Oil Content Circuit Breakers\" [Additional discussion of paper 52-242 by Lloyd Morgan, Paul Wildi, and W.H. Clagett, published in Power Apparatus and Systems, October 1952, pages 938-946]."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under he primary entry in the Author Index."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Estimates are given of average ground-to-air interference for a ground installation utilizing a Bendix ASR-1 vertically polarized antenna operating at 2900 Mc. Coverage is defined in terms of 0, 6, 12, and 18-db protection ratios with respect to a similar installation sending out an undesired signal, with station separations of 10, 50, 100 and 150 miles being considered. ``Coverage'' here is not synonymous with the usual concept of service, for no minimum signal is taken into account, but only the ratio between desired and undesired field strengths. Limitations of the estimates are discussed, and their derivation is explained in an appendix to the report."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"The prompt exchange of information is vital to the progress of any branch of science, and especially so in rapidly changing branches such as antennas and propagation. In order to expedite the dissemination of information in these fields, the Professional Group on Antennas and Propagation is undertaking the periodic publication of groups of articles and reports of interest to the membership. In order to accomplish the objective of promptness of publication, it is planned to keep the editorial review of papers to a minimum, thus placing the responsibility for accuracy and completeness of material entirely on the author."
"Correlation functions of data, such as fading radio signals or temperature-and humidity fluctuations of the atmosphere, offer a powerful tool for analysis. By conventional methods, computation of these functions is long and tedious. Thi paper describes a computer which was constructed for this purpose. The data to be studied are transcribed onto magnetic tapes. These tapes are then run through a computer which computes the auto- or cross-correlation functions, and plots the resulting function through a recording meter. An example of the application of this computer to the study of the turbulence of the atmosphere is shown."
"The problem of the diffraction of a plane electromagnetic wave by a small perfectly conducting oblate spheroid for the case of normal incidence has been investigated by an expansion method. By retaining three terms of the exponential function contained in the incident field, it is possible to describe both the incident field and the near-zone scattered field in terms of a finite number of discrete modes which satisfy the third order vector equation ∇ × (∇2 A) = 0, where A denotes a solenoidal vector representing either the electric field or the magnetic field. When the eccentricity of the spheroid approaches zero, the general solution reduces to the exact solution for a small sphere. When the spheroid degenerates into a disk, the expressions for the charge and the current agree with the leading terms of the corresponding expressions obtained by Meixner, Andrejewski, and Bouwkamp."
"A TEM transmission line having a circular or rectangular center conductor placed between two parallel plates or inside a rectangular tube, has been used in the construction of a number of uhf antennas and wave filters. The characteristic impedance of the class of transmission lines, of which the above-mentioned are particular examples, can be theoretically calculated by a number of methods. A review of the theoretical methods using the above transmission lines as examples will be given. Comparison between theoretical and measured results will be given to show the usefulness of the different theoretical methods."
"Many microwave optical devices have been designed and studied, at least in part, by the methods of geometrical optics. Common practice in the microwave field has been to focus attention on the family of rays rather than on the surfaces normal to them, the so-called phase-fronts. When phase-fronts are examined, they are usually obtained from the rays by passing along each ray a constant electrical distance from a reference phase-front. The clumsy analytical expression for a phase-front thus obtained renders even a routine investigation of it a burdensome exercise in mathematical manipulation."
"To investigate the characteristics of circularly-polarized waves as propagated through the troposphere, a field recording station has been set up at Hudson, Ohio. Continuous field intensity recordings have been made of the horizontal and vertical components as well as the circularly-polarized field over a 125-mile path from Columbus, Ohio. The results of these recordings are compared with recordings of the propagation of plane polarized waves over the same path, as wall as over the path from Detroit, Michigan, this latter path being about 50 per cent over water. A mobile recording survey has been conducted on a radial from Columbus through Hudson, and also on the circumference of a thirtymile radius around Colwdns. An analysis of this survey has been made showing the relationship betmen the horizontal and vertical components of the circularly-polarized field. lh addition, a comparison of the propagation data from Texas is made with the data obtained in this study. This cmparison sham marked daferences in the diurnal variation i n the two regions. This work has been performed under contract betmen the National Bureau of Standards and the mited Broadcasting Company."
"Since the received fields in the uhf and vhf bands vary widely in time and space, it is believed that, on many occasions, a statistical approach to communication problems may be necessary. It is the purpose of this paper to present a statistical analysis of the problem of FM and television service in the presence of multiple sources of interference."
"Methods for synthesizing the optimum patterns for arrays of isotropie sources have been given by Dolph and Riblet, using Tchebyscheff polynomials, except for arrays containing an even number of elements spaced less than a half-wavelength. The conditions which the optimum polynomial must satisfy in the latter case will be considered. For arrays of nonisotropic sources, it is possible to establish the mathematical conditions which the optimum polynomial must satisfy. Approximate methods for devising the polynomial which satisfies these conditions are discussed, and an example shown. The nature of the optimum pattern of an array of nonisotropic sources spaced more than a half wavelength is considered, and shown to be slightly different."
"Experimental verification of the validity of Stevenson's expression for a longitudinal shunt slot has been obtained. The theoretical expression has been found to be valid throughout X-band. Substantiating curves are shown, Resonant slot lengths as functions of slot dimensions and position on the waveguide are given. Correlation. between the phase angle of the admittance and the phase angle of the radiated field of a slot has been established. The behavior of the radiation pattern as a function of the position of the slot on the waveguide is shown. The characteristics of linear arrays of these slots are given, and some of the applications are indicated."
"The primary problem in the design of antenna-arrays is the satisfaction of the requirements of side-lobe level and beamwidth. An additional major consideration which has only recently received an analytical treatment1 is the problem of the deterioration of the beamwidth and side-lobe level arising from the variations in the excitation of each element. These variations are due primarily to the inaccuracies inherent in the manufacturing processes used to produce the array. The first problem has been discussed in great detail by many authors,2 and it will be the purpose of this paper to analyze the second problem. The analysis is formulated in general for a symmetrically excited broadside array and then, as a specific example, is applied to a linear shunt slot array which uses a Dolph-Tchebyscheff3 distribution for the element excitations. This distribution optimizes the relationship between beam width and side-lobe level. However, the method of analysis is general and may be applied to any linear array of radiators with arbitrary excitation, if the total mutual coupling between individual radiators may be neglected and no cross correlation exists between the inaccuracies of any two sources. Consideration will be given to these fundamental assumptions to show that the general method will yield useful results for slot arrays."
"Theoretical expressions for the equivalent circuit parameters of slots of finite wall thickness are obtained in terms of the parameters of aero-thickness slots of identical cross-section dimensions. The thick slots are treated as composite structures consisting of appropriate junctions and lengths of connecting waveguide, and the parameters of the junctions are determined from those of corresponding zero-thickness slots. The latter parameters have been developed in previous work by our group. The thick slots considered include transverse slots coupling identical guides, transverse slots radiating from the end of the guide, slot-coupled E-plane Tees, and slots radiating from the broad face of the guide. Precision measurements have been taken at a wavelength of 3.2 cm as a function of nail thickness, and excellent agreement is obtained with the theoretical predictions."
"This report, which was supported by the Office of Naval Research under contract N7onr-29529 with the Antenna Laboratory, Institute of Engineering Research, deals with rectangular apertures in the wall of a waveguide whose dimensions are such that the length-to-width ratio is of the order of unity, the length being in the neighborhood of a half wavelength. We speak of these elements loosely as slots, though in the strict sense of the word a slot is an aperture whose width is small compared with its length. The properties of the larger aperture elements are not known as well as those of the narrow slot. The study of the properties was undertaken both for its bearing on the general theory of apertures and for the potentialities of aperture elements for antenna design work. Whereas the nature of the excitation of a narrow slot is a function of its length primarily, that of the larger aperture element is strongly dependent on its position on the waveguide wall and its orientation with respect to the dominant mode in the guide. The excitation also depends on the nature of the termination of the waveguide beyond the aperture. The greater variety of inclinations that can thus be obtained suggests possible developments in beam synthesis techniques."
"In designing many scanning antennas, it is desirable to move a feed horn for an objective, a lens, or a reflector, along a curve on the focal surface of the objective. The most direct way to solve this problem is to move a horn on the desired curve mechanically; however, there are mechanical and electrical problems inherent in this type scanner which one would like to avoid. Another approach is the use of a simple mechanical motion, such as a rotation, which could be transformed into an apparent motion along the desired curve. Organ pipes use this approach, they usually consist of a structure for propagating energy from a feed horn through a transition region of waveguide channels to a radiating aperture. By rotating some part of this structure, different portions of the aperture are used, and hence the apparent motion along the line occupied by the aperture, or scanning, is accomplished."
"A differential phase shift between two orthogonal TE11 waves in circular hollow waveguide may be achieved with capacitive pins which affect one mode and not the other. Representing the two modes in the guide by two equivalent transmission lines and the pins by shunt susceptances, an analysis of an array of pins may be made to determine, as a function of pin spacing, the required values of susceptance to produce a given phase shift θ with no reflection. By making use of the transmission matrix giving voltage and current at one point in terms of voltage, and current at another point on the line, the following formulas for a three-element array are derived:"
"A magic tee may be used as a microwave phase-shifter by placing adjustable short circuits in its symmetrical arms. A perfect impedance match will exist through the E- and H-plane arms if the distances from the short-circuits to the tee junction differ by (2n + 1)λ g/4. The phase is shifted by simultaneously varying the distances from the short circuits to the tee junction. Orienting the symmetrical arms parallel to each other and replacing the E- and H-plane arms by coupling slots on opposite sides of the stucture simplifies the short-circuit driving mechanism and allows cascading of several phase-shifters. This modification is useful as a precision laboratory phase-shifter and allows the construction of a wide-angle scanning array."
"The desirability of obtaining a radiating structure such that the polarization of the radiating energy could be varied in a controlled manner and yet provide a radiation pattern whose shape was invariant, led to the investigation which is the subject of this paper."
"In this paper, work on which was partially supported by O.N.R. contract N7onr-29529, the method of impedance measurements in single-mode guide is extended to two-mode guide. Data is presented showing the impedance of a half-wave narrow slot placed parallel to the axis on the broad face of a rectangular wave-guide supporting the TE10 and TE20 nodes."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Measurements on vhf transmissions in recent years have indicated that field strengths deep in the diffraction region are many orders of magnitude greater than values calculated on a smooth earth diffraction theory, even vii en allowance is made for the refraction produced by the standard atmosphere1 Of the theories advanced to date in explanation of this effect, the machanism of scattering by inhomogeneities resulting from atmospheric turbulence has perhaps been the most successful.2 However, certain discrepancies in wavelength and angle dependence, together with the fact that the abnormal fields apparently exist everywhere at all times, lead one to seek an explanation solely in terms of the model represented by the standard atmosphere."
"Since the last year of World War II, the outstanding problem in tropospheric propagation research has been the explanation of the high observed field, strengths well beyond the horizons of high-power transmitters, at all frequencies throughout the vhf and microwave spectrum, in widely separated parts of the world under vastly different conditions of climate and terrain' The disagreement between measurements and calculations based on conventional theory of propagation over a smooth earth surmounted by an atmosphere with standard refraction (4/3 earth) has become steadily worse as the powers and distances have increased, so that the term \"discrepancy\" seems like a considerable understatement, 40 db and more discrepancies of median observed fields above the conventionally calculated value being not at all uncommon beyond 100 miles. Discussion and references appear in recent annual progress reviews on tropospheric propagation. 1, 2, 3"
"Almost everyone who has studied anomalous propagation in the troposphere will agree that the controlling factors are temperature and humidity profiles along the propagation path. However, when one tries to correlate propagation data against refractive index profiles as computed from temperature and humidity data, one immediately encounters the difficulty of a large scatter of points. In this case, one is often tempted to attribute the scatter to unknown influences which have not been taken into account."
"Field strengths of KE2XCC (93.1 mc, Alpine, N.J.) and WBZ-FM (92.9 mc, Boston, Mass.) have been recorded for more than a year at two locations (Hauppauge and Riverhead) on Long Island. The distances from Alpine to the receivers were 40.5 and 67.2 miles, while from Boston they were 150.4 and 127.4 miles. Statistical analysis of data for the evening hours reveals a broad seasonal trend toward higher intensities in the summer, with larger over-all variation on the longer transmission paths. Based on analysis of one summer month, refraction effects appeared to vary independently in the two directions. The ratio of field strength between the near and distant transmitters, analyzed with respect to time, was found to approach a normal probability distribution at Riverhead, and a Rayleigh distribution at Hauppauge. During periods of violent fading, hourly median field strengths of WBZ-FM varied over a range of 23 db at Riverhead and I9 db at Hauppauge. For the same periods, the ratio between Riverhead and Hauppauge fields varied over a considerable range and occasionally became less than unity."
"A development following Hartree, etc., is carried out of ray tracing using REAC differential analyzer. Ray families, on 2k-inch by 32-inch paper, are obtained for an atmosphere with a single n profile (index of refraction versus altitude curve), and for an atmosphere with three n profiles over the region of interest. The n profiles used were measured up to 10,000-foot altitude. The variation in radio field strength with separation between airplanes as measured in a recent air-to-air propagation flight is correlated with a variation or ray density based on index of refraction data taken during the flight. This was a flight which encountered a radio hole followed by its anti-hole (region of erulanced and interfering signals) within the geometrical horizon, and then a second hole and anti-hole at an anomalously large range beyond the horizon. The second anti-hole is accounted for by an anomalous-ranee layer near the ground and one in which the refractive gradient has a negative value nearly equal to l/(radius of earth}. In some respects the correlation is striking between ray-tracing picture and observed radio data."
"Three problems are considered in this paper viiieh are important in determining the effect of scattering on distant radio fields. The first problen is the attenuation of radio signals caused by scatterin1. Booker and Gordon2 supposed secondary scattering to be negligible, and proceeded to develop the general equation for scattering without including this component. This paper shows their assumption to be vdid by detemining the total power scattered per unit macroscopic element of volume relative to the power incidenton the volume. The second problem is a volume integration to determine the total scattered signal reaching axceiver point3. An equation is developed in terms of the propagation parameters vrhich will give this total signal. The third problem is that of cross polarization4 in the scattered wave. In working on the second problem, it was noted that a difference in polarization existed in the scattered signal which came from different elements of the scattering volume. A system of dipoles at right angles to each other was then assumed, and equations developed for determining the scattered signal received on each of these dipoles. Nmerical examples were coaputed and are coqared with field measwements of the cross polarized signal."
"A study has been made of the reflecting properties of snow- and ice-covered surfaces at a wavelength of 3.2 centimeters. In making this study, two lines of investigation have been followed. In one, controlled laboratory measurements were made of the permittivity and loss tangent of ice and snow of varying density and crystal structure over the temperature range 0° to -20° C, using waveguide techniques. In the other investigation, direct measurements were made, on an outdoor range, of the reflection coefficients of a flat metallic surface covered with snow."
"With the assignment of the 90-100-kc band to long-distance navigation systems, the interest in obtaining fairly precise propagation information for these frequencies has rapidly increased. Because of the lack of a suitable method of computing the level of received composite signal at various distances from a. transmitter, it was decided to obtain this information experimentally."
"For several years now reports of long distance reception have been coming in from, television viewers. Host frequently these receptions have spanned distances of around 1,000 miles. There has been considerable speculation as to whether these anomalous receptions were tropospheric in origin or transmitted via the sporadic-E region of the ionosphere. A consideration is made here of the type of evidence leading one to conclude that transmission paths up to 500 miles can, roughly speaking, be attributed to tropospheric propagation, while sporadic E accounts for those transmissions of between 500 and about 1,600 miles. The importance of these receptions to television service in the United States lies not so much in the service gained through the long distance receptions themselves, but in the possible interference to a station's fringe area from distant co-channel stations."
"Winds in the ionosphere have been studied by a method due to S.N. Mitra using the fading of radio echoes at spaced receivers (Proc. IEE, London, 111, 43, p. 441; 1949). A mean daily wind variation of nearly. semi-diurnal period and about 40 meters per second amplitude has been observed at à nominal height of 110 km (Region E), The wind variation is consistent with the explanation that it is due to tidal oscillations of the atmosphere. A wind variation consistent with that expected from lunar atmospheric tides has also been detected at this level. The winds in the F region appear to increase in velocity with an increase in magnetic activity. A similar effect is not observed in the E region except during severe ionospheric disturbances."
"Eight years of continuous recordings of the field strength of station WIW, and nine years of recordings of station W8XAL, both located near Cincinnati, Ohio, were examined for a lunar variation. The recordings were made at Washington, D.C. approximately 600 km away. The transmitted frequencies were 700 and 6,080 kc, respectively. In the case of WIW, nighttime values of hourly median field strength were used. In the case of W8XAL, midday values were. used. In neither case was the amplitude of the lunar semi-diurnal harmonic obtained by the analysis significantly greater than the probable error. The probable error in each case was approximately 0.3 db."
"A diurnal and seasonal model representing the E and D regions of the ionosphere above State College, Pennsylvania is presented. This model consists of a Chapman-like E-region and an electron D-region. Approximate 150-kc wave solutions including coupling are obtained for this model. These wave solutions, of course, exhibit the well known reflection condition corresponding to an N value of around 3,000 electrons per cm3. It is shown that the effect of the coupling is to cause a wave traversing a coupling region to excite a new wave propagated in the direction of propagation of the incident wave and also a back scattered wave propagated in the reverse direction. The back scattered wave will appear as a reflected wave originating in the coupling region. The forward scattered wave due to the downgoing wave from the upper \"reflection\" level also must be considered in calculating the polarization of ionospherically reflected waves."
"THE rapidly expanding use of electric apparatus on aircraft since 1940 has given emphasis to the development of new devices and machines of increased rating and reduced weight for aircraft electric power systems. Outstanding progress has been made in improved designs of reduced weight and space and increased performance and life. Much work still remains in device engineering to work continually toward further improvements as new materials and new techniques become available. Increase in aircraft operating demands will probably continue to mean electric power systems of increased size and improved reliability. These requirements will call for more work in development of devices of increased rating and performance. Still further, many of the devices currently used have not had the benefit of the improved design techniques and materials that are evident in some of the more advanced designs. Hence, it appears that engineering problems related to designs of individual devices “ device engineering ” will continue to be an important part of engineering for aircraft electric systems."
"THE steadily increasing upper limits in flight speed and altitude for modern aircraft are making the study of rotating electric equipment cooling systems imperative. Experience with conventional fan and blast cooling systems indicates poor cooling performance under many of the high-altitude, high-speed flight conditions now being encountered. Further, there are strong indications that other types of cooling may extract a lower over-all penalty from the airplane than the conventional systems."
"IN most electric systems in military aircraft, a grounded installation is used, that is, the conducting parts of the plane structure form the electrical return path to the generator. The cables may be bundled and secured to the plane structure for support with the cable insulation preventing metal-to-metal contact. In an installation of this kind, contact between an energized cable and the plane structure with current flowing through this junction constitutes an electrical fault."
"THE protection of electric systems has been applied mainly to the prevention of damage to electric equipment caused by overheating or overstressing the components. Normal industrial installations result in systems that, in protecting the specific equipment for which they were designed, also give adequate protection to the surrounding equipment. Unfortunately, it has been assumed, without serious reservation, that similar protective systems for aircraft equipment could perform the same function. In reality, however, the environmental conditions in aircraft operation are much more severe - that is, the structure of the aircraft is much more vulnerable to arc damage - requiring that more extensive and efficient protection be used in the future. It would be rather pointless to install a system that assured the operation of specific equipment if, at the same time, it allowed the structure of the aircraft to be destroyed. Such a contingency can occur under the present philosophy of protection of aircraft electric systems."
"TECHNIQUES commonly used at the present time in the analysis and synthesis of feedback-control systems are largely those of constant-linear system theory. In the usual form, these methods stem from a system characterization in terms of ordinary linear differential equations having real constant coefficients. Fortunately, for many purposes this characterization is satisfactory, and in these cases the properties and behavior of the systems can be studied analytically by application of the large body of available linear theory. Frequently, however, practical control systems contain elements, either unavoidably or by design, which are not linear in the engineering sense of being describable by linear differential equations with constant coefficients."
"This paper presents a method for protecting an aircraft self-excited d-c generator after either a full-field short-circuit fault or a generator feeder fault has been detected. Protection is afforded, regardless of whether the fault occurs inside the machine or externally. It is also applicable to other types of faults. The method consists, essentially, of purposely applying short circuits between the different generator output terminals, thereby disabling the power-generating capabilities of the machine."
"BECAUSE of its large size and complexity, the modern airplane requires many kinds of remotely or automatically controlled positioning systems."
"THE weight of aircraft electric power systems is of major importance because unnecessary weight carried in an airplane reduces the pay load."
"THE current capacity of aircraft cables in the simplest of environmental conditions is governed by many variables whose relations cannot be made explicit easily. For this reason, most current ratings have been determined empirically. The desirability of having a method for calculating current ratings becomes evident when changes are made in cable or in the cable environment. Improved insulation, lighter conductors, and higher ambient and operating temperatures are some of the more important factors which affect current ratings."
"FAULT current (also designated overcurrent or short-circuit current) protective devices, fuses, circuit breakers, and relays are the watchmen of a power system, whose job it is to detect trouble and get rid of it as expeditiously as possible. The design of such a protective system involves two separate although interrelated steps."
"IT IS essential to know the wave shapes and statistical distribution of impulsive interference transients for working out adequate interference-reduction methods. Interference pulses such as are produced by corona and sparking phenomena in electric equipment present a serious problem in measurements. Conventional noise meters convert any kind of pulse to the same fundamental shock excitation wave shape determined by the characteristics of the initial circuits and thus the original character of pulses is masked. The noise meter is useful in assisting in the routine elimination of noise from various electric devices, for it informs the investigator of the progress made and it indicates when the noise is of such a character that it will no longer cause appreciable disturbance in a typical receiver. However, for interference studies covering a wide frequency range, evaluation of the noise level requires a vast number of laborious measurements with different instruments for each range of frequency and type of communications. When evaluating atmospherics or other interference that changes character with time, noise meter measurements cannot be made quickly over a wide frequency range. Thus for a fundamental study of the nature of interference, the oscillograph provides more useful information. A highspeed oscillograph is of value even in routine suppression tests, since it can show the effect of each suppressive device on the undesirable transient graphically."
"The advent of a practical line of diesel-electric industrial switching locomotives waited upon the development of high-speed automotive-type diesel engines and suitable electric transmission and control equipment. When these were made available some 15 years ago, the forerunner of the present industrial switching locomotive was designed. The intervening years have witnessed steady progress in expansion, standardization, and refinement of this line of locomotives. Today it embraces units of varying size and power adequate to meet practically every type of industrial switching duty."
"IN the process of design, the engineer must consider the change in the system transfer function due to corrective networks added either in cascade or in the feedback loop. Instead of a trial-and-error adjustment of the network parameters, templates for different compensating networks can be easily constructed which show the change in gain and phase. The template can be reduced to a single-frequency locus if the problem is one of stabilization of a feedback system, reduction of noise, or adjusting bandwidth and speed of response of a feedback system."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the title page of this issue of the periodical."
"THE destruction and casualties from fires and explosions which originate from electrostatic ignition in hazardous processes are all too well known among safety engineers and industrial management to require elaboration. The annual property loss to industry is reported to be approximately $100,000,000 exclusive of costly losses from indirect sources. These losses, as well as the injuries and deaths of operators resulting from electrostatic origin, occur where flammable components are ignited in industrial processes. Industrial solvents and flammable or explosive chemicals are the chief offenders."
"MANY producers of tin plate, due to its large demand, are considering new or additional equipment. In order to flow brighten tin plate at high speeds, it is necessary to use high-frequency induction heating equipment. The other methods for producing tin plate, using combustible gases as a source of heat supply or resistance heating, are at present impractical at high speeds. To the author's knowledge to date, a maximum line speed of approximately 600 feet per minute has been attained by resistance heating. Current is the limitation for obtaining high speeds by this method. By gas heating the maximum speed that has been attained is below that of resistance heating. Space is the speed limitation for gas heating."
"THE quantitative understanding of the behavior of a human being functioning as an element of a closed-loop control system has become a matter of considerable importance in recent years. In addition to the purely military problems of high-speed flight, fire control, and similar tasks there are many situations such as automobile driving, operating machine tools, and other complicated mechanical devices, where a specific knowledge of human characteristics would make possible improvements in design and performance of the system. The study of human behavior in this area has been carried on by psychologists and industrial engineers for some time. However, the rapid development of the theory and practice of feedback control systems in the past several years has given new impetus and interest to the study of the nature of human behavior in analogous situations.1-8 See reference 8 for a very complete bibliography on subjects of interest in this field."
"RAILWAY power contracts should be based upon rate schedules and general provisions that harmonize the respective interests of the power supplier and user. Elimination of the customary demand charge and the substitution therefor of a straight energy charge supplemented with a minimum bill provision appears to offer considerable assistance toward this goal. By this means railway managements would be freed from unnecessarily restrictive deterrents to good operation, and utility companies would at the same time be assured of earning sufficient revenue to cover fully all operating costs and a return on the capital invested in railway power facilities commensurate with the risks involved and with the return from capital devoted to other industrial power services."
"Simplicity and reliability are the keynotes of the design of the new single-phase a-c electric locomotives for the Pennsylvania Railroad. Basic components tried and proved by years of successful operation were deliberately chosen and combined into a new design. Full advantage was taken of the latest improvements in materials and manufacturing processes to create a motive power unit of high capacity which is economical to build, operate, and maintain."
"Continued and intensive developments in perfecting the ignitron rectifier for broad application in the industrial and power fields revived interest recently in using it for railway work. Extensive tests in the laboratory and on an experimental railway car have demonstrated that a locomotive using ignitron rectifiers offered promise in combining the best features of the a-c and d-c electrification systems. The features of two such locomotives built for the Pennsylvania Railroad are described in the following paragraphs."
"Diesel-electric locomotives have replaced the steam locomotives in this country to a great extent and have been used in preference to railway electrification; whereas in Europe the tendency is still rather in favor of electrification. The following is a discussion for this diversity, which may be influenced by further technical developments."
"IMPROVED wheel-slip and wheel-lock protection for diesel-electric locomotives is a subject which has received considerable attention in the past few years. The system here described was designed to meet the proposed specifications of the Association of American Railroads. Its operation is based upon comparison of voltages which are proportional to the speed of the axles being protected. It will operate at the required 5-mile-per-hour speed differential between axles and will correct slipping in the specified manner. A thermally operated delay relay provides protection against abnormal conditions, such as a locked wheel. An additional feature is the provision of wheel-slip indication during dynamic braking. Oscillograms taken in actual train operation indicate that the system performs successfully."
"TRAFFIC congestion in our large centers of population exacts a staggering toll in inconvenience and financial loss each year. Emphasis to alleviate this condition has taken the direction of expediting the movement of vehicles. Analysis shows the fundamental problem to be that of moving people. In the light of this, co-ordinated transportation systems, such as here described, offer most attractive possibilities."
"A NEW trolley coach motor which combines the advantages of the series motor in acceleration and the shunt generator in dynamic braking has been developed. A number of improved features in mechanical and electrical design are included. Particular attention has been paid to obtaining superior commutation both in acceleration and braking."
"A new control system has been developed to operate with the new trolley coach motor described in a paper by Woods and Steen.1 In keeping with the trolley coach reputation as the lowest cost vehicle, this control has been designed for maximum reliability and minimum maintenance."
"WHERE motor-generator sets are used, induction heating coils are frequently located at points remote from the high-frequency generator in a manufacturing plant. In such cases, one or more transmission lines are required. These may be either of the cable or rectangular bus bar type. A subsequent paper will consider the use of cables. The present paper deals with rectangular bus bars. Primary attention is given to the range of frequencies commonly generated by inductor alternators. Current carrying capacity and resistance and reactance per unit length are tabulated for 10,000, 3,000, and 1,000 cycles. Equations are given which apply to much higher and lower frequencies as well. The information supplied has not previously been available to users of induction heating equipment."
"HOUSEHOLD refrigeration has come a long way since the days when the ice came from a commercial ice-making plant, lake or river and was placed in an ice box. The first mechanical compressor consisted of a pump, belt driven by an electric motor. There were shaft seals in the pump to prevent the refrigerant and oil from escaping. The belt and shaft seals were troublesome. The manufacturers did the best they could to make as good a box, and the mechanism as quiet, efficient, and free of vibration as was possible at that time. However, with all its shortcomings, the housewife welcomed this type of refrigeration in preference to the old ice box."
"The increase in copper losses and iron losses of a d-c shunt motor when operated from grid-controlled rectifiers is studied. Fourier components of the rectifier output voltage are calculated, and the superposition principle is applied to predict copper losses. Tests were run to determine copper loss and iron loss; increased copper loss is seen to closely approximate the predicted value, and discrepancies are interpreted as being due to nonlinearity of the iron. The increased iron losses follow a pattern, explained in the text. Results are graphed on normalized co-ordinates and are thought to be representative."
"THE a-c electric power generation and distribution system of the Dow Chemical Company at Midland, Mich., may be of interest to power engineers for two reasons. First, it represents the experience of a plant wide a-c system that has grown from small beginnings in a period of 23 years and has encountered and solved the problems that go with rapid growth. Second, being a chemical plant, many special problems peculiar to the chemical industry were solved in the process, yielding techniques that may be of interest to others in the chemical and petroleum industry."
"IN many closed-loop control systems, an analysis of the system discloses that it is possible for signal energy to traverse different paths and to be modified in a different manner in these various paths. This is in contrast to the very simplest of closed-loop systems, where the signal traverses transfer elements in cascade. The reasons for using multiple-loop systems are many. Improved linearization, noise reduction, and change in impedance level can be achieved by using auxiliary loops. It is also possible to synthesize certain transfer functions by using additional feed-back paths. A simple example of this, is the integral control which can be obtained by using a properly designed series field in a rotating amplifier (Rototrol). It is also possible, by using multiple loops to feed information from various parts of the system to control elements, in order to improve system performance. Also multiple loops might arise where closed-loop control systems are used as components in larger closed-loop systems. For example, in the use of control systems in flight control, the system is part of a larger system closed through the pilot himself."
"THIS paper introduces a procedure for synthesizing servomechanisms whereby the roots of the characteristic equation can be predicted. Given a specified location in the s plane for the roots, the open-loop transfer function parameters and gain can be calculated to give those roots. Since the roots of the characteristic equation are the exponents in the expression for the transient response, it is thus possible to synthesize a system from the standpoint of desired transient response. Inherent in this procedure is the ability to determine whether such a response is physically possible for a particular system. Throughout this paper the term transient response means transient response to a step input."
"The electric spark machining process is becoming of considerable industrial importance in the tool and die industry. A typical electrical system for this process is described and a theory is advanced for the mechanism of operation. The results of experimental tests are reported."
"RECOGNITION of the need for better protection of aircraft electric systems is indicated by the increasing use of reverse current circuit breakers in d-c generator circuits. Improved protection, however, must be extended to the entire electrical system and not confined to the generating equipment. Protective equipment for low capacity circuits in 28-volt d-c systems has been available. There has been a lack of protective equipment, however, for similar and higher capacity circuits in both a-c and d-c 120-volt systems. A new circuit breaker with ratings up to 125 amperes, 115 volts, a-c or d-c, recently developed is described. The requirements for such a circuit breaker are: 1. Interrupting capacity, 5,000 amperes sea level to 50,000 feet. 2. Ultimate trip current, 138 per cent of rated current at 25 degrees centigrade. 3. Continuous current capacity, 115 per cent of rated current at 25 degrees centigrade. 4. Two hundred per cent current calibration, 10-100 seconds at 25 degrees centigrade. 5. Ambient temperature range, -55 degrees centigrade to 71 degrees centigrade."
"This paper analyzes the protection of a typical 28-volt d-c distribution system for a large multiengine aircraft. Methods of making a load study and fault study are illustrated. From the analysis of this system, conclusions are drawn regarding bus and feeder fault protection and arrangement. It is shown that by relatively minor modifications in bus arrangement a considerable increase in the degree of reliability can be obtained."
"THE work that must be expended to actuate adjustable flight surfaces and to operate the landing gear, bomb doors, and other movable structures on aircraft often exceeds pilot capabilities. At the same time, the increase in physical size of aircraft in recent years has all but ruled out mechanical transmission systems. To provide for power amplification and to eliminate mechanical links, the aircraft designer uses a multitude of remotely controlled actuating devices, known more simply to the aircraft industry as actuators."
"REDUCED voltage controllers are needed for d-c motors for aircraft application to 1. Limit voltage dip during motor starting. 2. Limit inrush current to the motor."
"This paper outlines certain difficulties experienced with diesel-electric locomotives on the Missouri-Kansas-Texas Railroad since the first road service units were placed in operation during 1947. With four different makes of locomotives, totalling 197 units operating on 3,242 miles of railroad, furnishing the basis for the observations outlined, it can be assumed that similar difficulties have been prevalent on other railroads of comparable or greater size and diesel ownership. Any criticism offered should be considered constructive as it is given sincerely and with a hope that it may be of some benefit to manufacturers and users alike."
"At the Southern California Co-operative Wind Tunnel, part of the need for rapid and accurate recording of instrument readings on tabular data sheets has been met by the development of a new automatic-translating device. This device has unusually low torque and is especially suitable for use with self-balancing potentiometers. The device picks up the reading as a whole number and electrically transfers it to standard printing and punched-card machines, without lag and without restricting the normal operation of the potentiometer."
"THERE is an important class of feedback control systems known as sampled-data systems or sampling servomechanisms in which the data at one or more points consist of trains of pulses or sequences of numbers. Such systems may have a variety of forms, a common example of which is shown in Figure 1. In the case illustrated, the sampling is performed on the control error by a so-called sampler which is indicated as a mechanical switch which closes momentarily every T seconds. The data at the output of such a switch consist of a train of equally spaced pulses of short duration whose envelope is the control error function. In some practical systems, the separation between successive pulses is controlled by some characteristic of the input signal and consequently is not constant. Such systems will not be considered in this paper."
"The railways of the Netherlands were almost totally destroyed at the close of World War II. This provided an opportunity to change from the former system of electrification at a minimum cost if desired. Reaffirming the earlier decision to electrify with the 1,500-volt d-c system, remarkable rehabilitation has taken place and electrification is being extended rapidly. Thus, 7 years after the cessation of hostilities, the Netherlands Railways may be considered one of the most progressive of Europe, taking full advantage of the economies and improved performance accruing from the use of this simple and intensely practical system of electric propulsion."
"Optimum design of servomechanisms based on the criterion of minimizing the integral of squared error for representative inputs has been discussed by Hall,1 Phillips,2 and others. Investigations of related criteria, the mean-square and mean-absolute error for a square-wave input, are described in this paper. Experimental results on simulated second- and third-order servomechanisms check closely with analytical values, and the optimum adjustments obtained in this way coincide with those calculated for step function inputs. Measurement and minimization of mean-absolute error appears particularly promising as an experimental design technique. since standard rectifier-type voltmeters can be used and the resulting optimum responses conform with subjective standards of good response."
"Feedback control design is passing into a third stage of development as the systems become more complicated, less subject to linear treatment, and more susceptible to noise problems. This article is a review of analogue computers which are useful in studying involved linear systems and those which do not lend themselves to direct mathematical analyses."
"BLOCK diagrams have been used for many years to facilitate planning of assembly lines, chemical processes, and complicated electric and electronic systems. More recently, block diagrams have been used extensively in the study of automatic control systems involving electric, mechanical, hydraulic, pneumatic, optical, and other elements. By means of transfer functions, the blocks are used to represent the dynamic properties of the various elements, as well as their function in the complete system. This paper shows that the same block-diagram techniques developed for control systems can be applied to electric networks, reducing the computational labor needed to solve network problems and contributing fresh insights into network behavior which may be helpful in synthesis problems."
"APPLICATIONS of electrical engineering to air transportation encompass almost all the various phases of electrical engineering: lighting, communications, electronics, rotating machinery, switch-gear, batteries, and so forth. The modern aircraft may have as many as 400 separate pieces of electric equipment, adding up to over 100 kilowatts of installed load; and may have three or four separate electric systems, with over 10 miles of feeder, distribution, and control wiring. The airplane of today is almost completely dependent on the electric power supply and is not capable of performing any mission without it. In most cases, a safe return to base, or any safe landing at all, is not possible without a fully functioning electric system."
"THIS centennial year is a fitting time to set down a few of the historical facts regarding the men and the events that created and expanded the production and application of electric light as a science, an art, and an industry. Here, too, are recorded observations on the impact electric lighting has had upon our lives."
"A FEEDBACK control system is composed of a group of elements, which may be electrical, hydraulic, pneumatic, and so forth, whose behavior may be linear or nonlinear. The analysis and synthesis of a feedback control system with linear elements which can be described by a linear differential equation with constant coefficients have been well developed. In such analysis and synthesis, the term \"transfer function\"1 frequently is employed to describe a servo element. It is a Laplace transform notation of the differential equation governing the behavior of the element."
"AUTOMATIC feedback control systems have been deeply explored and widely discussed throughout the literature. This paper will discuss special circuits which are peculiarly adaptable to such systems. In particular, if the system is of the type employing a modulated carrier signal, it is possible to nullify completely the effect of a simple time lag by inserting nonlinear circuit configurations which are presented here. The circuits are uniformly effective over a wide range of magnitudes of modulation. They are particularly useful since very little power is lost in the network and low impedance loads will not disturb their operation."
"SCIENCE endeavors to describe large numbers of situations observed in nature by the simplest and most general theory. The more generally applicable a theory, the more useful and highly regarded it becomes."
"EVERY industrial plant of any size today has two or three utilization voltages, any one of which is available for supplying motors. The maximum primary distribution voltage within the plant buildings may be any voltage up to 15 kv, the maximum standard being 13.8 kv. Thus a choice must be made as to the most desirable voltage rating for the various motor ratings. Many factors must be considered if an intelligent selection is to be made. Each of these factors will be discussed to the end that the recommended minimum horsepower for each voltage level may be determined. This paper is concerned with the recommended minimum and not with the minimum horsepower at the various voltage ratings that it is possible to manufacture. Stated otherwise, it is not what can be built but what should be built from the standpoint of the best over-all installation for the purchaser. Likewise, just because a motor is listed in the motor manufacturers price handbook, for example a motor rated 50 horsepower (hp), 2,300 volts, does not mean that it is as good a motor from the standpoint of long life and trouble-free service as a similar motor rated 440 volts. It does indicate, however, that such a motor can be built if absolutely necessary. Maximum horsepower ratings at the various voltage ratings will be discussed also. The natural question then is: why do motor manufacturers list such ratings in their handbooks? The answer is self-evident when considering that all motor manufacturers list these ratings. Whether this practice should be continued is beyond the scope of this paper."
"The saturation of an amplifier is found to cause large amplitude oscillations in a conditionally stable servomechanism. The employment of a suitable nonlinear element in the stabilizing network may prevent such oscillations. For a particular system containing a saturable amplifier, frequency response analyses are used to find the magnitude and frequency of the oscillation and to determine the design of a nonlinear filter which will prevent large amplitude oscillation. Laplace transformation theory is employed to justify the use of a frequency response analysis, and to prove that the combination of a saturable amplifier and an unstable inner loop will cause oscillations in both conditionally and unconditionally stable systems. Results obtained from an analogue computer are compared with the results of the frequency response analyses."
"THE FIRST large scale experimental application of graphite anodes and an impressed current to cathodically protect the bottoms of inactive ships was planned by the United States Maritime Administration (U.S.M.A.) in 1949 as a result of discussions with National Carbon Company representatives."
"THE synthesis of a feedback control system by means of phase-angle loci originates from Evan's root-locus method1 which enables one to find all possible roots of the characteristic equation of a feedback control system. Once the roots are chosen, the transient response then may be worked out. Thus, it allows the synthesis of feedback control system in time domain. However, the plotting of the root locus requires some sort of guesswork. This is not surprising because the analytical difficulty in extracting the roots of the characteristic equation is imposed on the graphical work, yet help in the effort to solve the problem can be given."
"THE proposed AIEE symbols and definitions for feedback control systems1 will be employed throughout this paper except for one omission and two additions. It will be assumed that the command signal is received with suitable magnitude and in appropriate electrical, mechanical, or other physical form so that the “reference input elements” will be omitted, although the term “reference input” will be retained to signify the input signal to the control system. The term ”signal component control” (sec) will be introduced to designate the control method, and the term “signal component control device” will be employed to specify the particular associated equipment."
"This paper summarizes ground coil performance during two heating seasons at Whitemarsh and Lansdowne. There are also derived certain approximate relationships which should be useful for designing ground coils for other situations."
"THE measurement of currents and voltages in low-energy circuits always presents certain difficulties. The presence of the measuring equipment causes changes in the circuit parameters, and even though an exceedingly accurate instrument is used, the instrument reading may be far from the true value obtained when the instrument is not present."
"REGULATING systems are a combination of devices whereby a large amount of energy is controlled by a small amount of energy. Large amounts of heat can be controlled by a small amount of thermal energy in a thermocouple. A feeble voltage can regulate the speed of a tandem mill; a tiny magnet governs the voltage of a large alternator; and a microwatt radar signal can guide a missile at supersonic speeds. It follows that power amplifiers play a major role in regulating systems; therefore, some of the principle characteristics of proportional power amplifiers will be examined."
"A plan for automatic longdistance switching, which ultimately will embrace the entire area of the United States and extend into Canada and perhaps Mexico has been formulated and important steps have been taken toward its realization. The plan contemplates that when a telephone customer places a call with a longdistance operator, this operator will be able to establish a connection to any desired telephone simply by playing a 10- or 11-digit code into an automatic mechanism. She will receive distinctive signals when the called telephone answers or when the telephone or the toll circuits are busy. Thus she will control completely the establishment of the connection and will have available to her the information necessary for proper billing of the call. The plan also contemplates that telephone customers ultimately will be able to dial long-distance calls themselves, wherever may be the locations of the calling and called telephones."
"THIS paper covers the general switching plan and fundamental plant layout proposed for handling telephone toll messages throughout the United States and Canada using automatic toll switching."
"IN TELEPHONE language a numbering plan is exactly what the name implies, a plan or system of giving each telephone in a city, a town, or any geographical area an identity or designation which is different from that given every other telephone in this same area. This designation is the telephone number; it appears in the directory and in most cities on the telephone instrument itself. It is the address of the telephone in the telephone network. Just as it is essential for efficient postal and delivery service to have streets and house numbers clearly marked, it is important for good telephone service that the telephone numbering plan be such that it will be used with convenience and accuracy by the telephone customer."
"THIS paper deals primarily with the major switching centers required for the nationwide automatic switching plan. These are called control switching points (CSP's) and are supplied with switching equipment endowed with great versatility and a high order of mechanical intelligence. Mr. Pilliod's paper1 explains how for purposes of circuit layout and routing, they are assigned different rankings as follows, starting with the lowest ranking: primary outlets (PO's), sectional centers (SC's), regional centers (RC's), and one national center (NC). Substantially the same equipment is to be provided for all of these centers so that they all will have inherently the same capabilities. They will, however, differ greatly in size. In the United States and Canada, as now envisaged, there will be somewhat under 100 of these CSP's."
"WITHIN the past 2 or 3 years many scientists and engineers working on research and development projects in the magnetic amplifier field have come to realize that the dynamic hysteresis loop of a magnetic material plays an important role in determining the amplification and control characteristics of high-gain magnetic amplifiers. Figure 1 shows a block diagram of an excitation and test circuit which often has been used to display the dynamic hysteresis loop of a core material upon the screen of a cathode-ray oscilloscope tube."
"This paper describes a new 2-stage magnetic amplifier for high-performance servomechanisms, particularly to be used in connection with those types of 2-phase induction motors having such a low ratio of effective viscous friction to inertia that it is difficult to stabilize at high gain in a closed loop. The basic idea consists in feeding the amplifier field winding of the a-c reversible motor by a variable unidirectional current having a fundamental frequency (60 or 400 cycle) component and a d-c component producing an effective dynamic braking of the motor, preferably in such a way that the d-c component increases when the a-c component decreases, and vice versa."
"OF THE potential applications of magnetic amplifiers, one of the most promising is in the field of automatic feedback controls. In such systems, reliability of operation is frequently as important in design considerations as the operational characteristics themselves. For this reason, the replacement of relatively short-lived vacuum tube amplifiers with long-lived, rugged, and reliable magnetic amplifiers is an extremely desirable thing provided the minimum operational characteristics can be met using the magnetic amplifier."
"THE platinum resistance thermometer is the interpolating device for the 1948 International Temperature Scale from ―182.97 degrees centigrade to +630.5 degrees centigrade.1‾3 When properly made the reproducibility of its resistance justifies its calibration and use for measurements to 0.01 degrees centigrade or 1/80,000th of its temperature range.3 Mueller attacked this difficult resistance-measurement problem with a hand-operated decade bridge.4 Stull attacked the problem with a mechanically balanced recorder using a slide-wire plus decades5 and explained the value of the recorder, one example being the determination of chemical purity by freezing point measurement.6 While Stull was building his recorder the author and his associates were also building a recorder, using one of the several methods of electronic balancing which had then been developed.7, 8 Based on the experience with these two types of recorders there was developed a third type with improved precision, the experimental form of which is the subject of this paper. The commercial form may differ in details from the experimental form described here."
"As a result of constantly increasing loads, 3-wire single-phase service is rapidly replacing the original 2-wire domestic service. This change has been accompanied by continuous improvement in the range and performance of the meters. In view of these developments, it is appropriate to analyze the bases upon which the fundamental correctness of 3-wire single-phase metering rests and which have been responsible for its universal acceptance for many years. The analysis in this paper shows that this acceptance is well founded, that the probable error of this form of metering can be calculated readily, and that it is usually negligible."
"IN AN extremely large number of problems concerning the behavior of physical systems the associated equation consists of the Laplace equation $\\Delta ^2 u = 0 \\eqno{\\hbox{(1)}}$ or one of its close relatives Poisson equation $\\Delta ^2 u = \\rho \\eqno{\\hbox{(2)}}$ Diffusion equation $\\Delta ^2 u = \\kappa {\\delta u \\over \\delta t} \\eqno{\\hbox{(3)}}$ Wave equation $\\Delta ^2 u = {1 \\over v^2} {\\delta ^2 u \\over \\delta t^2} \\eqno{\\hbox{(4)}}$ For a given problem, equations 1 through 4 are not definitive as they stand, but require the specification of boundary and initial conditions peculiar to the problem at hand."
"FOR many years engineers have been concerned to find what the factors are that bear on and control the dielectric strength of electric cable insulating papers. Among the well-known factors investigated is the paper's density which, in most instances, has been inextricably intertwined with the paper's air resistance. As far as the authors of this article are aware, no serious attempt has been made yet to separate the influence of air resistance as a single factor. It is the belief of the authors that they have succeeded in making this separation."
"THERE are many instances, in the application of double-tuned transformer coupling, where the primary and secondary Q factors are unequal. When coupling from a crystal converter to the grid of the first intermediate-frequency amplifier, for example, the primary Q is likely to be much lower than the secondary Q. A similar situation exists, if the primary is tuned, when coupling from a transmission line to the grid of a radio-frequency amplifier. An intermediate-frequency interstage transformer, with a damping resistor only across the secondary, may have a high primary Q and low secondary Q."
"The impulse dielectric strength of pressboard impregnated with transformer mineral oil and transformer Askarel and a variety of other liquids having differing chemical constitution is reported. It is emphasized that the decreasing dielectric strength with increasing multiple cycles of alternating current is responsible for the high impulse ratio of mineral oil-impregnated pressboard and that this effect is diminished greatly in the case of transformer Askarel, which has a low impulse ratio. Investigation of polarity effects with different electrodes has indicated that breakdown of the Askarel-impregnated pressboard is initiated in the liquid at the edge of the positive electrode."
"IT IS perhaps not surprising that the fundamentally important advances in the electrostatic method of separating suspended particles from gases have resulted primarily from improved methods of supplying high-voltage power. Both theory and experience bear out the great importance of the methods and apparatus used to supply electric power for the corona discharge in the precipitator, which in turn produces the electrical forces on the particles and causes their collection at a suitable electrode."
"A family of new chlorinated liquid dielectrics has been developed. One member of this series, dichloro-1,3,3-trimethyl-1-phenylindan (designated as IN-420), appears particularly suitable for use as a capacitor impregnant. Values of dissipation factor and d-c resistivity are comparable to or somewhat better than existing commercial chlorinated biphenyls. Its dielectric constant and dielectric strength are somewhat superior to those of the chlorinated biphenyls."
"THE operation of saturable-reactor circuits with purely resistive loads, such as incandescent lamps, has been described in many articles.1‾6 There are, however, a great many applications especially in connection with feedback control systems where the load consists of an inductance, such as the field of an electric machine, requiring direct current. Yet the writer is not aware of any published mathematical analysis of the inductive d-c case, including effects of variations of line voltage, line frequency, and load resistance. After the completion and first submission of this paper, Mr. Milnes' paper12 dealing, in part, with saturable reactors with inductive d-c load became known to the author."
"A new property of 2-dimensional fields is presented. It has to do with a field in a nearly closed area that is without sources, a typical example of which is the flux in a slot. This will be called the original field. Any such original field always has correlated with it what will be called a correlative field, the correlative field having an entirely different conformation."
"THE Centennial which engineers now celebrate marks not the end of a century of engineering but rather the 100th anniversary of the organization of engineers for the advancement of applied science. Truly engineering began at man's emergence from the very primitive state. No doubt the first use of fire was looked upon with as much awe and apprehension as is the control of nuclear fission today. To fix in mind the rate of scientific progress, we need only recall that until Lord Rayleigh it was quite conceivable that one mind might encompass and master all of science. No one realizes better than the engineer how futile it would be for one man to attempt to master all of science today. No one realizes better than the engineer the high degree of specialization that has developed in the mechanical arts during the first half of the present century. These reflections lead to the speculation that technological advancement follows some logarithmic law."
"The telephone was invented 24 years after the founding of the American Society of Civil Engineers and Architects, which society commemorated its Centennial in September 1952. The telephone was 8 years old when the American Institute of Electrical Engineers was founded. Since Bell's invention, the telephone business has grown tremendously and this growth has been greatly dependent on developments in science and engineering. This paper traces, and endeavors to give the significance of, the major developments. Brief mention is made of some developments still in the making and of some ideas as to the future potentialities of the business."
"This is a progress report and review of the outstanding pioneering achievements behind the development of radio broadcasting and television as effective services to the public and the nation. Growth of both of these arts receives separate attention in chronological order; discussion also is included of their inherent relationship. Coverage is given not only to the principal phases of development but also to the possibilities of the future."
"ONE hundred and sixty-four years ago Galvani discovered the existence of current electricity, previous knowledge having been confined to static electricity and the spark discharges associated with it. Significant additional fundamental discoveries made by Volta, Oersted, and Faraday provided the knowledge that enabled Morse to develop the practical instrumentality of the wire telegraph which used direct current interrupted in accordance with the code which he devised. Later Bell developed the telephone using the same basic technical information but employing alternating currents having acoustic frequencies."
"The relative merits of private versus government ownership and operation are examined in the field of electrical communication, advantage being taken of evidence covering approximately a century, distinguishing American experience in private corporations from that of Europe in state administrations. Principal attention is focussed on telegraphy, as oldest of the electrical industries, and on those features which are of most interest to engineers and management. It is concluded that while particular forms of organization do exert an appreciable effect upon discovery and invention, their most obvious impress has been upon the respective degrees to which they have exploited invention to maximum public benefit. The disparity in effect of American and European casts of enterprise upon world progress in communication is examined pragmatically, and also analytically as to cause. Social trends leading to changes in conformations as they now exist are assessed from the viewpoint of their possible bearing upon American telecommunication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the title page of this issue of the periodical."
"MANY field problems calling for graphical mapping have been crudely solved, due to lack of graphical skill or lack of training. Other problems have sometimes been badly solved by using mathematics on simplified but inaccurate substitutes for the real conformation. Many good solutions have been obtained with the electrolytic tank."
"WHEN a single saturating reactor is used as a magnetic amplifier the output current is not zero when there is no d-c input. In the absence of any d-c saturating excitation there is a small quiescent current Io. The application of a d-c signal causes the output to increase from this smaller value, Io, to a larger value Is. Under the conditions which give rise to maximum gain, the value of Io is usually a substantial percentage of that of Is, as for example in the order of 30 per cent."
"The behavior of indicating instruments subjected to overloads is described. The principles underlying design requirements of protective devices are presented and certain features of instrument design which enhance the effectiveness of protective devices are mentioned. Test results on current circuit and voltage circuit protective devices which are mounted within the case of a single-phase wattmeter are given. The current circuit tests cover overloads ranging up to over 200 times rated current. The latter represent direct connection of the current circuit across a 240-volt power circuit while the voltage circuit of the wattmeter was energized."
"Through the use of a new principle, the impedance-phase-shift, the weight of the reactor elements of a 60-cycle a-c network analyzer has been reduced to a value lower than that obtainable in designs employing medium-frequency 500-cycle zone, and approximately equal to those employing high-frequency 10,000-cycle zone. The reactors have an X-R ratio of infinity in terms of system measurements. Among other advantages gained by the use of standard, power frequency is the elimination of the special-type motor-generator unit to supply power to the analyzer. Power is supplied through constant-voltage magnetic-stabilizing type transformers."
"This paper shows the hysteresis loop characteristics exhibited by four different core materials while actually employed in a magnetic amplifier circuit. These characteristics serve to point up differences which affect the operation of magnetic amplifiers. It is hoped that from this information the designer will be able to apply these characteristics to better advantage as well as to increase the field of application."
"The method of electromechanical analogies is now well established, the three types being the direct analogy, the inverse analogy, and the frequency analogy. This paper reviews the first two methods and applies them to the transient analysis of the separately excited d-c machine. The equivalent circuits developed allow for motion of the stator and permit the analysis of vibration problems. Reference is made to the introduction of initial conditions."
"THE stability of control characteristics in electronic tubes is of continuing interest to users and manufacturers alike. This quality is one phase of a broader interest in high quality tube performance evidenced by recent conferences on tubes for instrumentation and computers and by growing demands of the airlines and the armed forces for more reliable tubes."
"THE Oscilloscribe, developed in the Servomechanisms Laboratory of the Department of Electrical Engineering, Yale University, is a very high-speed direct-writing oscillograph which produces an immediate permanent record of voltages having frequency components ranging from direct current to 200 cycles per second. Development of this device was started in February 1947 when comparable devices were not available commercially. Since that time several instruments of this general type have appeared on the market and have found a wide variety of applications.1"
"To make practical the extensive use of resistance thermometers for industrial temperature measurement and control, an instrument having high sensitivity, sturdy construction, and simplicity is needed. To fill this need the ratio instrument described in this paper was developed. Conventional ratio instrument mechanisms proved to be inherently unstable at the high sensitivities required. The mechanism of the new instrument employs a crossed-coil moving system and a novel permanent magnet pole-face geometry resulting in higher sensitivities than have been previously obtained with ratio mechanisms. A resistance thermometer using the new instrument, while sturdy enough to withstand the shocks and vibration encountered in industrial applications, has a sensitivity high enough to make practical scale spans as small as 50 degrees centigrade."
"DURING the past decade much attention has been directed to improving the accuracy and speed of meter testing on the part of manufacturers and users of a-c watthour meters. Numerous arrangements are in general use which might well be publicized for the benefit of those who feel the need for improved methods and equipment."
"Dielectric heating can be much faster at microwave frequencies. Because leakage radiation is large enough to interfere with communications, heating is best done at assigned frequencies. The bands at 915 and 2,450 megacycles are most useful. An industrial magnetron oscillator generates 5 kw at 915 megacycles. The tube and associated control circuits are described. Apparatus for heating dinners and plastics has been constructed using this tube. Experimental magnetrons give 30 kw at 1,000 megacycles."
"EXACT mathematical relations between the characteristic impedance and the physical dimensions of circular concentric and eccentric coaxial lines, as well as of coaxial lines having square outer and circular inner conductors1 have been developed and experimentally verified. Messinger and Higgins2 were able to develop formulas for the determination of the inductance of coaxial busses composed of square tubular conductors, at power frequencies. Their calculations were based on finding the self and mutual geometric mean distances of the conductor cross sections."
"THE author has already published the principles of his new method1 which is here developed further. This paper presents the developed method in full for the first time."
"Filter attenuations for the seven most common ladder filter sections can be read from a single chart or more conveniently from the two charts given. Many properties of low-pass, high-pass, and bandpass filters are readily deduced by inspection. An illustrative example is given and the equations used in construction of the charts are discussed in an Appendix."
"THE circuit to be considered in this paper is the series-connected magnetic amplifier with resistance and linear inductance in either the load circuit or the control circuit, or in both circuits simultaneously, Figure 1. This circuit with modifications has been analyzed by many authors, a few of whom are mentioned in references 1 to 9. In almost all the analyses simplifying assumptions have been made concerning the magnitude of some of the circuit parameters, very little work having been done on circuits in which La and Ld are not zero. It is the object of this paper to analyze and discuss the changes in current wave shapes produced by variation of the circuit parameters Ra, Rd, La, and Ld. In order to understand these changes the circuit is analyzed mathematically. The magnetization constraint of the cores is approximated by three linear segments as shown in Figure 2. The procedure, following a method first used by A. Boyajian,10 is to obtain solutions for the circuit currents and core fluxes which apply only when the cores are operating on specified linear segments of their respective magnetization curves. When the cores are operating on such a pair of segments the equations of the system become linear, and consequently are solved easily. It is necessary then only to match final and initial conditions at the time of transition from one segment to the next. Equations are thus derived which permit calculation of the instantaneous values of the circuit currents and core fluxes in transient and steady-state conditions. The equations are verified by quantitatively comparing calculated instantaneous values of the current wave shapes with the instantaneous values obtained experimentally. They then are used to explain the changes of wave shape which occur when any of the circuit parameters are changed."
"Regulated rectifiers have numerous applications in the Bell System and recent years have seen increased use of selenium cells as the rectifying elements in these units. In large power plants, regulation has been achieved using reference standards and electronic amplifiers in checkback circuits. In plants having less than 50 amperes d-c charging capacity, however, it has been possible to use magnetic amplifier techniques to secure ± 1 per cent regulation, with an additional advantage that periodically renewable circuit elements have been eliminated in the regulating circuit."
"A facsimile system capable of sending 80 complete standard size letters per hour is described. Direct scanning is employed at both the transmitter and the recorder, making the transmitted message immediately available at the receiving terminal. Servoloops around the 1,800-rpm scanning motors provide the synchronous precision required at the speeds involved. Phasing is accomplished by controlling the phase of the motor driving voltage at the recorder. The equipment is automatic and under the complete control of the sending operator."
"THE great usefulness of network analyzers (a-c calculating boards) for making power-system studies is now generally recognized. The number of a-c boards has increased from the first two, which went into service in 1929.1, 2 to more than 25 at present.3 Most of the existing a-c boards are in the United States, but there is at least one each in Canada, England, Brazil, and India. The studies made on these boards undoubtedly have resulted in economies in capital expenditures in power systems equal in value to many times the cost of the studies themselves."
"The open-circuit transfer function θ(p) of the 2-terminal pair network, defined as the ratio of the output voltage to the input voltage, must be regular in the right-half p plane. Poles of θ(p) on the imaginary p axis, if any, must be simple with residues having zero real part. These conditions are sufficient to realize θ(p) to within a constant factor by a symmetrical lattice network. If, in addition, θ(p) has no zeros in the right-half plane, then θ may be realized to within a constant factor by a ladder network. If θ(p) is further restricted by the condition 0<θ<1 whenever θ is real in the right-half plane, then θ may be realized completely by an L network. An algorithm for factoring the product of two positive real functions is given also."
"DELAY lines are used in many applications in both high-frequency and low-frequency fields. In low-frequency applications such lines consist of a cascade connection of inductance-capacitance network sections employing lumped constants. Ideally, the line should have no attenuation; its characteristic impedance should be constant, and the phase shift should be a linear function of frequency. With the latter condition, the time delay is constant and the character of the signal is unchanged in its transmission over the line. In design practice, one attempts to meet as closely as possible these ideal conditions within the limits of cost, space, and practicability."
"ELECTRIC power systems have grown tremendously in the first half of the 20th century. This phenomenal increase includes expansion of each of the following components: 1. Greater number of load service points , transmission and distribution stations, industrial plants, and adjacent system interconnections. 2. Greater number of transmission lines, wider range of transmission voltage, and a trend toward higher voltage levels. 3. Greater number of generating points both company owned and those resulting from interconnections."
"Specially designed filters to work between a finite resistance at one end and an open circuit or a short circuit at the other end can be made to duplicate exactly the attenuation and phase-shift characteristics of image parameter filters terminated in equal resistances. By doing so a 6-decibel flat gain and considerably higher frequency limit due to parasitic elements can be obtained without added cost. The design procedure follows exactly that of the well-known image parameter filters. A set of algebraic equations express the new element values in terms of the values for image parameter filters."
"THE purpose of this paper is to present some approximate expressions relating the factors that govern the self-excitation in magnetic amplifiers. Possibilities are shown of a compensation of diversities of rectifier characteristics so as to obtain uniform steady-state performance, simply by readjustments of feedback turns, without changing any other factors of design or operation. Moreover, the effects of controlled or uncontrolled (drifting) variations of feedback circuit parameters are examined in terms of resulting current gains."
"FOR a good many years designers of power transformers and distribution transformers have had a guide number to use in starting their first design.1, 2 This is expressed by the equation Vt = K√kva where Vt is the volts per turn to use in starting the first design; K is a constant which may vary between relatively narrow limits; and kva is the kilovolt-ampere rating of the transformer. In practice, the constant K is about 1.25 for shell-type power transformers, about 0.6 for core-type power transformers, and about 0.4 for core-type distribution transformers."
"IN ELECTROMAGNETIC theory two quantities, scalar potential V and vector potential A, are commonly used and from them the electric and magnetic fields can be derived. The author recently published tables of Green's Functions1 for the solution of partial differential equations in rectangular co-ordinates. The Green's Functions as given in those tables only include scalar potentials. However, in dealing with problems involving fields due to currents or permanent magnets vector potentials are used. These also can be derived from the tables of Green's Functions when required. Since this was not included in the tables on account of their length, it will be covered here."
"The first electric digital computers were built around the properties of relays. The superior speed capabilities of vacuum tubes has led in recent years to their use in new computer designs to replace relays. Because of the small size, low power consumption, and expected long life of transistors, it now appears that the transistor will replace the vacuum tube as a computer element. This paper presents a study of binary computer functions with recommended mechanizations that were selected because they appeared to be readily attainable with transistors now under development. Block diagrams are presented of switches, memory units, arithmetic units, and other basic components. Estimates are given for the number of parts required in the units. It is concluded that a high-performance all-semiconductor computer can be built with germanium diodes and transistors."
"POTENTIOMETER and bridge-balance systems using galvanometer detectors and electromechanical amplifiers have been used successfully in the recording of industrial process variables for many years. Electronic detection and amplification has greatly extended the field of application of these basic instruments by increasing response speed, sensitivity, and range of application.1, 2 The versatility and standardization of design made possible by the electronic servo amplifier has permitted the utilization of the accurate null-type metering system to the continuous measurement and control of practically all process variables which can be converted to electrical functions. The electronically operated null-balance recorder is admirably suited to perform as an analogue calculator, and circuits and devices are available which permit the computation of derived process variables including sums, differences, products, ratios, powers, roots, and trigonometric functions. The electric computing systems offer numerous advantages over equivalent mechanical methods. These include: 1. Transmitters (also called transducers or pickups) whose outputs are to be included in the calculation can be located remotely from one another in their most favorable location relative to process. In this way the electric system offers the additional advantage of short-range telemetering for centralized process control. 2. Complete electronically operated computing systems are built up using the basic standard components of the simple measuring systems. Mechanical computers generally require special design of linkages, cams, and gears. 3. Functions can be computed accurately over wide ranges and with relatively straightforward calibration procedure. Mechanical computers involving complex linkages and cams are generally limited and require special calibrations for each application."
"This paper describes a point-to-point telemetering system using pulse width modulation and sequential scanning for transmission of several measured variables over a single circuit by teletype. The system, which is essentially electromechanical rather than electronic, operates on the basic principle whereby the magnitude of a measured variable is converted into a pulse of proportional time width. The system was developed specifically for remote monitoring of pumping stations on a pipeline to permit automatic operation from a central dispatch office. In the design of the equipment emphasis was placed on requirements of reliability, sturdiness, simplicity, and ease of servicing rather than on factors such as high speed and excessive sensitivity."
"SERIES circuits containing a capacitance and nonlinear inductance have assumed considerable importance in modern engineering design. However, knowledge of the behavior of such circuits is extremely limited because of the inherent nonlinearity of the differential equations encountered."
"The solution of simultaneous linear algebraic equations by the basic relaxation method is described in detail and the use of short-cut methods is explained and demonstrated. It then is shown that the same technique can be applied to the solution of ordinary and partial differential equations, and its accuracy is discussed. Several problems taken from various branches of electrical engineering are solved to illustrate the application of the method."
"The design of a prototype Eccles-Jordan flip-flop such as used in large-scale digital computers is discussed, with particular attention to the role played by component variability. A graphical design technique is described; the technique should prove useful in other switching-circuit design problems where a large number of identical direct-coupled circuits are employed."
"The principal soft magnetic alloys have been rolled to thicknesses between 1/8 and 1 mil. Magnetic properties of toroidal cores wound from ultrathin tapes were studied using d-c magnetization. Even though the coercive force tends to increase with reduced thickness, the coercivity of ultrathin metal tapes is usually lower than that of ferrites or powdered metals. Relatively rectangular d-c hysteresis loops were obtained in three of four alloys investigated."
"ALTHOUGH there exists today no theory of dynamic stability of sufficient generality to satisfy the demands of engineering, there are, nevertheless, several tools which may be employed advantageously by the engineer in many stability investigations. A short description of these tools illustrated by certain practical examples will be presented."
"Many forms of magnetic amplifiers have been described in the past 50 years. The patents and writings relating to these devices have been examined to determine what types of magnetic amplifiers exist and what properties these devices have in common. The objects of this paper are: (1) to describe the various types of magnetic amplifiers, and (2) to present a method by which the basic principles relating to these devices may be codified according to an orderly system."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Training key executives who are “generalists” rather than specialists is a major problem of any large concern. In this article are presented the results of a job rotation program for potential executives which has been in progress at the Consolidated Edison Company of New York."
"THE CONTROL CURRENT flowing in a self-saturated magnetic amplifier supplies the magnetomotive force to maintain the specified bias flux density in the core. To predict the output obtained for a given control current the magnetic properties of the core material must be known."
"Railroad operations require on-the-spot communication facilities, for which the telegraph is often inadequate. Radio communication on the very high frequencies fills the gap as it provides the means by which a dispatcher can converse with the crew of a speeding train miles distant from his office."
"TESTS AT 60-cycle frequency were made by using five 350-kv testing transformers in cascade connection. The rated voltage at this connection is 1,750 kv. However, the useful test voltage was limited to 1,360 kv rms by clearances to ground of 24 feet. The 5-unit cascade is shown in Figure 1, as used for the calibration of a 200-centimeter sphere gap. The 60-cycle calibration of the sphere gap was extended to 88-centimeter spacing and checked within 2.5 per cent of the negative impulse values of this sphere gap. The output voltage of the cascade connection was measured by reading the voltmeter coil voltages of the individual units and adding them arithmetically. The output voltage of a cascade connection of five units is very sensitive to relatively slight changes in load capacitance."
"Human behavior is becoming an increasingly important factor in modern engineering design. As machines become more complex, closer cooperation between bioscientist and engineer is required to achieve a fuller understanding of the human operator."
"Traffic congestion in large centers of population exacts a staggering toll in inconvenience and financial loss annually. Alleviation of this condition has taken the direction of expediting vehicular movement, but the fundamental problem is moving people. Co-ordinated transportation systems offer attractive possibilities."
"LARGE INSTALLATIONS OF communications equipment, industrial control devices, and computing instruments have given rise to a demand for d-c power supplies having the property of maintaining a constant load voltage. The concentration of such loads in 10-kw units makes it economical to devote development time and first-cost expense to the rectifier installation; and this new dimension in economics has induced considerable development engineering effort in the direction of higher efficiency and more accurate voltage regulation in these power supplies."
"Static electricity in industry is a menacing problem to production and personnel. Presented here is an evaluation of various types of static neutralizers with test data showing their comparative effectiveness to assist engineers in selecting suitable antistatic equipment."
"Engineering is responsible for the social and economic progress that exists in this country today, but the fundamental aims of the engineering school — to develop men with mental integrity able to deal with new problems and new situations — have not changed much in the last century."
"The physicists' attempts to achieve increasingly higher particle acceleration require power equipment comparable to that used in a steel mill. The bevatron power plant design is based on such factors as high peak power, low input swings, and exact pulse timing."
"A classification of structures for transmission substations is given, with recommendations for choosing suitable materials and designs. Methods of determining design loadings are discussed, together with industry practices regarding design and fabrication standards."
"SINCE ITS INTRODUCTION 6 years ago, phase-comparison relaying has enjoyed wide acceptance. As originally conceived, its field of application was to be largely for medium-length, 2-terminal overhead lines. The operating experience has been so good that the demand has grown for extending its field of application to longer lines, to 3-terminal lines, and to certain cables. Also, its inherent immunity to the effects of mutual inductance makes its use attractive for ground-fault protection even though it may not be applicable for phase-fault protection. In such cases, there was a need to combine the virtues of phase- and directional-comparison relaying. Modifications now have been made to phase-comparison relaying equipment that will provide these desired extensions of its field of application. See Figure 1."
"Design features and electrical characteristics of a new cathode-ray tube which was developed specifically for electrostatic storage applications are described. Particular attention is given to the spot size, deflection defocusing, “spill” characteristics, screen blemishes, signal output, and the compromises made to achieve optimum over-all design."
"Two systems are described for applying hydrostatic lubrication to pivoted-pad thrust bearings during starting of vertical water wheel generators. These are the externally pressurized system and the hydraulic lifting system. Current design features and practices of both systems are discussed."
"A macrodynamical economic system is simulated with electronic circuits to study the effects of various parameters on stability. Included in the circuit are the delay between the investment of money and the production of goods, the time constant of depreciation, the distribution of manufactured goods, increase of capital goods, and national consumption."
"Estimates that several billion dollars worth of metal are lost annually due to corrosion underline the great importance of cathodic protection. This study of corrosion from the electrical standpoint is an evaluation of the behavior of galvanic couples in accordance with the laws of electricity."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Featuring papers and discussions on “Research Development and Utilization of Electric Energy,” the tentative technical program has been released (pages 375–76) for the AIEE South West District Meeting to be held in St. Louis, Mo. As announced in the March issue (pp 280–1), the meeting will be held at the Jefferson Hotel, April 15–17."
"A broad-gauge inquiry into all aspects of present-day modern welding techniques and problems characterizes the program for the third annual Welding Conference to be held at Rackham Memorial Building, Detroit, Mich., on April 16, 17, and 18."
"Two subjects of absorbing interest to residents of New York State and the New England states, hydroelectric developments on the Niagara River, and the St. Lawrence River development, will be featured at the 1952 AIEE North Eastern District Meeting, to be held at the Arlington Hotel, Binghamton, N. Y., April 30-May 2. This area, which includes the triple cities of Binghamton, Johnson City, and Endicott, is one of the fastest growing industrial communities in the eastern part of the United States. The meeting also marks the 50th anniversary of the host Section, the AIEE Ithaca Section."
"A conference on Progress in Quality Electronic Components will be held on May 5, 6, and 7 in Washington, D. C, at the Department of Interior auditorium, with Roger Smith Hotel as headquarters. In the sponsorship of this conference, the AIEE is joined by the Institute of Radio Engineers and the Radio-Television Manufacturers Association, with the active participation of several agencies of the United States Department of Defense and the National Bureau of Standards."
"A preview of the technical program for the 1952 Summer General Meeting of the AIEE, to be held at the Nicollet Hotel, Minneapolis, Minn., June 23–27, indicates a variety of technical sessions and conferences on subjects ranging from the chemical industry to computing devices and rotating machinery. In addition, the Annual Meeting of the Institute will be held on Monday morning, June 23, at which the new AIEE President-elect will be introduced. A tentative schedule of the sessions as currently planned for the five days of the meeting is as follows"
"A regular meeting of the AIEE Board of Directors was held at Institute headquarters, New York, N. Y., on January 24, 1952."
"Editor's Note: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of February 21, 1952, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections, signed by a member, must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A navigating crystal ball now makes it possible for a mariner to interpret more accurately the movements of nearby vessels and lets him know in advance whether his ship is headed for clear sailing or disaster."
"An alternator, said to be the first successful vaporization-cooled, environment-free alternator in the industry, maintains satisfactory cooling while operating in extreme conditions of temperature and altitude. Developed in connection with North American Aviation's guided missile research program, the new alternator is the result of Jack and Heintz, Inc., research on power units that offer environment-free operation and impose a minimum penalty on the aircraft."
"The lightest and most compact hand radio transmitter-receiver, smaller than a loaf of bread, developed by the Raytheon Manufacturing Company, Waltham, Mass., with the Signal Corps Engineering Laboratories in 1948, is the first communications equipment to utilize tiny subminiature tubes on a mass production basis. It is a complete one-package transmitter, receiver, battery power-source, and antenna, designed for a specific, highly essential purpose: to link front-line troops with other men and other units."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"It is one thing to write a technical paper and quite another to present it to an audience so that the listeners not only will understand it but will remain interested in what the speaker is saying. There are certain fundamental principles involved which, if followed, will assist a speaker to hold his audience in more ways than one."
"As a new means for expanding and improving power system operation, microwave channels offer some important advantages over older systems for protective relaying. Several methods for using microwave channels for this purpose are described in this article."
"RESISTANCE thermometers have several advantages over other types of temperature-measuring equipment especially in the − 150-to + 150-degree centigrade range. They are inherently stable and accurate, and the end device may be located several hundred feet from the primary detector without affecting calibration. There are no cold-junction errors requiring compensation, such as are encountered in thermocouple thermometers. Although resistance thermometers have been used for many years in standardizing work in thermometry and for aircraft temperature measurements, they have not been used extensively in industrial applications. The primary reason for this is that instruments which combine high sensitivity and simplicity with sturdy construction have not been available to make practical an industrial resistance thermometer which consists essentially of a resistance temperature detector, a power supply, and a ratio instrument."
"Results of this study reveal that variations in magnitude and wave shape of voltages caused by lightning surges in extra-high-voltage stations are great enough to be of economic importance in the selection of insulation levels of station equipment."
"WITHIN THE PAST DECADE much attention has been directed to increasing both the accuracy and speed of testing and calibrating single-phase a-c watt-hour meters. The availability of high accuracy transfer instruments has made possible the measurement of alternating current to an accuracy of 0.02 per cent."
"The publication, in 1938, of an international vocabulary of electrical terms marked the first time that such a list of definitions had been produced upon which international agreement had been reached. Advances during and since World War II, however, have necessitated the current process of revision, work in which the United States, previously inadequately represented, is taking an active part."
"In answer to numerous queries, the author indicates briefly the procedure which is being followed, the large number of factors which must be taken into consideration, and the possible publication date of the current revision of the American Standard Definitions of Electrical Terms."
"THE SO-CALLED MOTOR CONSTANTS of primary and secondary resistances, primary and secondary leakage reactances, and the magnetizing reactance, as well as iron and friction losses of single-phase induction motors, are derived from considerations obtained from standstill and no-load tests. Having reliable values for these circuit parameters enables the designer to make accurate calculations of motor performance."
"RENEWED INTEREST IN resonant neutral grounding1 makes it important to have available methods for predicting accurately voltages and currents under abnormal system conditions. A-c network analyzer methods utilizing symmetrical component and 3-phase principles are used for the analysis of subsequent faults on power systems, often called simultaneous faults. Included are systems so grounded that a single line-to-ground fault is not a short circuit. Faults are imposed on two sections of line at x and y, see Figure 1. This selection is general and does not place any restrictions on the location of the chosen line sections which, for example, may be portions of radial feeders at opposite ends of a general network. They may be portions of lines connecting two general networks in any manner, or may be simpler and more familiar configurations."
"A new approach to an as yet unsolved problem is the observance of planetary effects on transatlantic short-wave radio signals. Correlation over seven years shows that certain planetary arrangements agree well with the behavior of short-wave signals."
"Modern refrigeration demands a motor-compressor unit of long life, which will operate over long periods with little or no attention with high efficiency. To achieve this end, the designer of the hermetically sealed motors used today must take into consideration a number of factors peculiar to this application."
"THE SHORT-CIRCUIT RATINGS of power circuit breakers define the maximum short-circuit currents which the circuit breakers can be required to close, carry, and interrupt. These currents are transient and contain both direct and alternating components. They vary in magnitude between the time a fault occurs and the time the circuit breaker interrupts. Consequently, several ratings are used to define the maximum short-circuit current to which the circuit breaker may be subjected."
"Extensive tests in the laboratory and on an experimental railway car have demonstrated that a locomotive using ignitron rectifiers offered promise in combining the best features of the a-c and d-c electrification systems. Two such locomotives have been built for the Pennsylvania Railroad; one, the 2 (B-B-B), is shown above."
"THE OBJECT OF electromechanical analogies is the establishment of a correspondence between a mechanical and an electric system. Where lumped elements can be used, the electric circuit analogue is attractive because of the well-developed electric circuit theory."
"THE NETWORK ANALYZER has become a practical necessity in the solution of complex power-system problems. Since a few weeks a year on rented calculators have proved inadequate, The Detroit Edison Company has designed and installed a system analogue and network computer to provide full-time use of this essential engineering tool. Inasmuch as this device would be used for the study of current operating problems aimed at obtaining optimum system performance, as well as for systemplanning functions, it seemed desirable to combine a conventional, completely variable network calculator with a fixed permanently connected section which is a factual reproduction of the company's bulk power system."
"The Oscilloscribe is a high-speed oscillograph which makes ink records on a fast-moving chart of voltages having frequency components ranging from direct current to 200 cycles per second. The basic element of the instrument, which is actually a servomechanism, is a D'Arsonval meter movement with no restoring springs."
"FLUID MAPPERS can be built to simulate a wide variety of electrostatic, magnetic, and other analogous fields. The visible flow pattern shows the field conformation in terms of a large number of flow lines. Some of these lines can be traced by being selected so that the tubes formed can be mapped by simple and sufficiently accurate routines. The flow pattern for the map of Figure 1 was formed using an 8- by 12-inch slab. Thirty-three lines, forming an equal number of tubes, were traced from the flow pattern. Line selection is arbitary, leading to a collection of unequal tubes. Only accidentally will the relative ohms of two of the tubes be the same."
"Permanent magnets made from extremely fine powdered iron compare favorably with Alnico magnets and offer the advantage of much lighter weight. Present magnets of this material have only a fraction of the theoretically possible strength."
"Two factors — increased demand resulting from technological advances and decreased supply engendered by the falling birth rate and the interruption of the war years — are responsible for the current critical shortage of engineers. To attack this problem, we must supply our young people with the incentive to undertake an engineering career."
"Accomplishment of a renaissance in everyday living is due to the modern electric household appliance which performs time-consuming tasks and provides many luxuries and comforts. Such appliances are used and often misused by technically uninformed persons and so the design must incorporate safety features to take such factors into consideration."
"Standards in any field must be amended as progress is made. Presented here are proposed changes in transformer insulation tests now under consideration by the AIEE Standards Committee and the American Standards Association Sectional Committee C-57."
"For more than a half century various improvements have been made in built-up mica insulation — splitting mica into thin films and cementing them together to form large sheets. A significant advance in micaceous insulation is the new continuous mica sheet described herein."
"A self-saturating magnetic amplifier circuit is described for the control of a 2-phase 400-cycle motor. Major design factors are minimum weight, low power consumption, long life, and a 10-cycle response."
"In this stage of our national history, when the United States increasingly must identify its own growth with that of the world as a whole, there are three things which we can contribute to world economy: our products, our dollars, and, most important, our technical knowledge."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Minneapolis, Minn., site of the 1952 AIEE Summer General Meeting, June 23–27, is considered the industrial and mercantile gateway to the Upper Midwest. With its twin city, St. Paul, it forms a metropolitan community of 900,000 persons that manufactures, stores, and distributes much of the goods for the extensive agricultural area lying to the north and west, and receives and processes the cereal products for that area."
"On April 8, 1952, Dr. Lee de Forest was honored by a dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel celebrating the 50th anniversary of his entry into commercial wireless telegraphy, as the art was then known. The event also commemorated the 45th anniversary of the birth of the 3-element tube, or “audion.” One of the most far-reaching inventions of this century, this tube is used in every broadcast and television transmitter and receiver, in telecommunications by wire and radio, in electronic devices of every kind, including radar and guided missiles, and in every motion picture theatre. Dr. de Forest, the “Father of Radio,” is now 79."
"Editor's Note: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of March 20, 1952, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections, signed by a member, must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"Photographs showing certain structural details of the Brookhaven reactor have been released by the United States Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) for publication, it has been announced at Brookhaven National Laboratory. The Laboratory is operated by Associated Universities, Inc., under contract with the AEC."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The United States Navy has accepted its first automatic steering system for aircraft carriers, it was announced recently by the Sperry Gyroscope Company, Great Neck, N. Y. The new robot helmsman will be installed aboard the U.S.S. Oriskany."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by t h e publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of t h e books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"American methods of engineering education are, in large part, responsible for our country's industrial status in the world today. AIEE President McMillan here compares the history of technical education in Europe and the United States."
"Electric power plays a vitally important role in American life, and demands for its future development are increasing steadily. The efficient planning of future power systems, however, calls for foresight and imagination as well as sound technical judgment."
"WHEN ARRANGED PROPERLY, channel conductors possess certain desirable electrical and mechanical characteristics. Thus, they can be arranged so that the cross section of the resulting bus approaches Arnold's equal inductance cross sections1 for which geometry the skin and proximity effects are reduced to a minimum. Channel conductors have considerable mechanical rigidity with which to withstand short-circuit forces. Their shape enables an open construction which simplifies ventilation and heat-dissipation problems."
"HIGH VACUUM TUBES are being employed increasingly today in applications which require great stability of performance. Whether the application be an electronic instrument, a computer, or a control device, shifts with time in the characteristic curves of the component tubes are very troublesome. This article presents an analysis and experimental results which are intended to help clarify the reasons for such shifts in characteristics."
"The electrification of European railroads is different in many respects from that in the United States. In France there is employed a new single-phase 50-cycle system and French engineers have built up a case for this type of electrification. Another departure from American practice is the modern C.F.F. locomotive in the title picture used on the 16&2/3;-cycle 15,000-volt lines of Switzerland."
"A simplified analysis of the difficult subject of loss mechanisms in gas discharges is presented to give electrical engineers a good physical groundwork, since these mechanisms often are the controlling features of gas discharge tubes."
"IN THE PAST FEW YEARS, with field testing continuing at ever-increasing magnitudes of short-circuit capacity, the controversy over the symmetrical versus the rms basis of rating has taken on more significance. The European claim is that American circuit-breaker ratings must be discounted by a factor of two-thirds, and American manufacturers claim a rating based on the highest possible single-loop offset wave brought about by synchronized pretripping. Although these high American ratings are sanctioned by the American Standards Association, there is no proof that a circuit breaker thus rated is capable of interrupting a symmetrical current of the same rms value. Yet, the definition of rated interrupting current as the highest rms current, including the d-c component, which the circuit breaker shall be required to interrupt, indirectly implies that the two ratings shall be equal."
"IN CONNECTION WITH the installation of Potomac River generating station C, it was necessary to develop preliminary plans for transmission of the energy generated in the new plant to the load. The plans selected have certain features which are not commonplace, such as comparatively small capacity of individual transmission lines, use of phase angle control, and the absence of high-voltage circuit breakers except at the generating station."
"A brief survey is presented of devices used for stopping 400-cycle motors to aid the equipment designer to select the braking mechanism most suited to his particular needs."
"THE USE OF a-c generators in aircraft has posed some new problems. One of these is co-ordinating the excitation system design with the alternator design to obtain satisfactory performance during transient conditions. There has been much concern over the tendency of exciters to reverse polarity under the conditions of initial build-up, and when a short circuit is applied to the alternator. The tendency is most pronounced on wide-speed-range machines operating near their maximum speeds."
"SULFUR HEXAFLUORIDE in high-voltage apparatus fulfills these requirements of a gaseous dielectric: 1. dielectric strength should be high at a low-gauge pressure; 2. temperature of condensation should be equal to or lower than that at which the apparatus is operated; 3. the gas itself and its products of decomposition should not be toxic or of readily controllable toxicity. Similarly, the gas should not corrode materials of construction; 4. the gas should be chemically inert and thermally stable; 5. it should have a high heat transfer coefficient."
"Inadequate teaching of humanities, neglect of the fundamentals of engineering, and over-specialization are criticisms of engineering curricula that are reviewed and analyzed by the author. Suggestions and future plans designed to improve engineering education are given."
"The dynamic hysteresis loop of a magnetic material is an important factor in determining the amplification and control characteristics of high-gain magnetic amplifiers. The flux density versus the magnetizing force characteristic can be shown as an oscilloscope pattern using the apparatus described herein."
"FOR SOME TIME the interpole winding on d-c machines has been used to provide a signal for control circuits. The voltage drop across the interpole winding resistance can be used as a practical indication of large values of load current. However, for machine operation producing rapid changes in load current, the voltage across the interpole winding fails to remain proportional to load current. The purpose of this article is to present a system that will represent the load current for transient as well as for steady-state operation."
"This new motor for trolley coaches combines the advantages of the series motor in acceleration and the shunt generator in dynamic braking. Among the many improved electrical and mechanical features is superior commutation in both acceleration and braking."
"Standardization and safety testing of electric equipment is always an important problem. This article briefly surveys the situation in Europe. Although each country has its own program, the International Commission on Rules for the Approval of Electrical Equipment (CEE) makes recommendations to its 13 member nations."
"ELECTRIC INDUCTION COUPLINGS often are made with the field inside and the secondary outside exactly like an alternator. The field can be just as readily the outer member if desired. The secondary member often is made as a squirrel cage as in induction motors, and even more often is a simple ring of steel in which eddy currents are induced."
"In the investigation of Alnico 5, two problems arose. What is the mechanism which enables the alloy to respond to heat treatment in a magnetic field? What causes the alloy to have a high coercive force of 600 oersteds? The first problem has been solved and progress has been made toward solving the second."
"It has been found that glass-tube thermometers are seldom used for determining motor-winding temperatures and that thermocouples provide more accurate results and are more convenient to use. It is recommended that thermocouples be specified instead of thermometers using the present temperature limits now specified for the rise-by-resistance method."
"Simplicity and reliability are the keynotes of the design of the new single-phase a-c electric locomotives for the Pennsylvania Railroad. Latest improvements in materials and manufacturing processes are fully utilized to create a motive power unit of high capacity."
"Aircraft destruction can result from electric installations following the same principles successfully used in a normal industrial installation. Suggestions are made to clear faults of this type."
"THE A-C ELECTRIC power generation and distribution system of The Dow Chemical Company, Midland, Mich., represents the experience of a plant-wide a-c system that has grown from small beginnings in a period of 23 years. Also, being a chemical plant, many special problems peculiar to the chemical industry have been solved."
"Based on the principle that output torque is equal and opposite to the reaction on the motor frame regardless of the source of external shaft loading, this dynamometer can make accurate measurements on the performance of motors too small to be tested by the usual methods."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Daily luncheons will be a novel feature of the AIEE Summer General Meeting in Minneapolis, Minn., June 23–27. They will enliven a full week of technical sessions, varied and far-flung inspection trips, and diversified entertainment. A social event has been planned for each intervening evening, and something of interest is scheduled in conjunction with each luncheon."
"The hospitality of the AIEE South West District was extended to the Institute on the occasion of the meeting held at the Jefferson Hotel in St. Louis, Mo., April 15–17, 1952, where approximately 600 members enjoyed an excellent technical and social program."
"The 3-day meeting of the North Eastern District, held in Binghamton, N. Y., April 30-May 2, 1952, with headquarters in the Arlington Hotel, exceeded all expectations for attendance with a total registration of 677 members and guests. The program was highlighted by a symposium on the development of power from the Niagara and St. Lawrence Rivers; an address by James F. Fairman, Administrator of the Defense Electric Power Administration; and appropriate recognition of the 50th Anniversary of the AIEE Ithaca Section. During the 3 days, a broad variety of subject matter was presented in 15 technical sessions, and on Friday a Student Paper Session was held, followed by a luncheon meeting of Student Branch Chairmen and Counselors. Social events included a smoker and a banquet held on successive evenings, while social get-togethers, trips, and entertainment were arranged for the ladies under the chairmanship of Mrs. E. G. Kniffen. Inspection trips were taken to the Goudey Generating-Station and to well-known industries in Binghamton and vicinity."
"As announced in Electrical Engineering for March (EE, Mar '52, pp 279–80), three new publications will be inaugurated, beginning in July, to take the place of the present AIEE Proceedings. A subscription card to the new publications and the annual AIEE Transactions was sent to the membership in March. Those who have not already filled in and returned this card should do so promptly. The use of the card is preferable to writing a letter. The receipt of all subscriptions in advance will be of assistance in the ordering of proper quantities of paper and the issuance of the publications attention to the cards which counselors had been asked to fill out and sent to headquarters. These cards will then be sent to the chairmen of Sections where graduating students would be relocated, and it will be seen to that the graduating students get into Section activities. He also suggested that graduating students look at the AIEE Year Book before leaving college and determine the name of the Chairman or the Secretary of the section where they are going after graduation."
"Editor's Note: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y."
"The Board of Examiners at ite meeting of April 17, 1952, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections, signed by a member, must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"A free-floating buoy-type weather station, developed by the National Bureau of Standards (NBS) for the Navy Bureau of Ships during World War II, reports weather data by radio automatically and unattended. The NBS buoy automatic weather station consists essentially of a timing mechanism, several weather-responsive devices, a relaxation or keying oscillator, and a simple 2-stage radio transmitter. The weather-responsive devices cause associated resistors to vary with changes in weather conditions. At 3-hour intervals the timing mechanism, a modified automobile-type electric clock, turns the station on. While a program selector switch inserts one weather resistor after another into the keying oscillator circuit in predetermined sequence, a relay in the plate circuit of the keying oscillator switches the transmitter on and off at a rate proportional to the value of the particular resistor."
"Safety and economy are the keynotes of the specially designed, all-steel, window-washing and exterior maintenance machine recently placed in operation at Lever House, headquarters of Lever Brothers Company, New York, N. Y. The 24-story office building has 1,404 fixed, nonopening windows nearly flush with the exterior with only 1 inch of sill. It is estimated that $100,000 have been saved in building costs alone by installing fixed instead of conventional windows. Costs of washing have been cut by two-thirds and substantial savings in interior cleaning, heating, and air conditioning will be achieved. Two men can clean the outside of all 1,404 windows in 6 days."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"As Defense Electric Power Administrator, Past AIEE President Fairman has been able to observe at first hand the problems of government administration, particularly in regard to our defense plans. He urges every engineer to support the present mobilization program because, by preparing for hostilities before they start, we may be strong enough to avert war."
"To bring the reader as up to date as possible, and to clarify the objectives of the unity organization proposed by the Exploratory Group to Consider the Increased Unity of the Engineering Profession, the full text of the Group's report is presented herein, together with Secretary Osborne's letter of transmittal. Also included are the minority report submitted by the representative of the Exploratory Group from the NSPE, and those sections of the present EJC constitution which would be affected under such a plan."
"ALTHOUGH POWER circuit breakers are designed primarily to interrupt heavy inductive short-circuit currents, system growth in recent years has produced a greatly increased requirement of interrupting relatively lighter currents associated with the switching of capacitive kilovolt-amperes. This capacitive kilovolt-ampere requirement has manifested itself in long-distance high-voltage transmission lines, in relatively long high-voltage cables, and in large-size shunt-capacitor banks which are becoming a common fundamental unit in system design and operation. There is not necessarily a relationship between the ability of a circuit breaker to interrupt short-circuit currents and its ability to switch capacitance currents. It is recognized widely that high-frequency voltage and current oscillations may be produced which, if uncontrolled, may result in damage to apparatus or system outages."
"A METHOD OF long-duration surge-withstand design testing of station-type lightning arresters is proposed for consideration by the industry. The test method involves successive applications of a surge having an essentially constant magnitude and a duration measured in thousands of microseconds."
"WE HAVE ALL heard much, in the past 2 years, of the present and future shortage of engineers. Many professional and technical societies, including the AIEE, have been actively concerned with studying the problem, and have made specific recommendations to help alleviate this condition. There has been a rather general feeling that we must substantially increase the numbers of graduates to meet more nearly the present demand of industry, which is estimated variously from 30,000 a year up. Such activities are certainly desirable to counteract the previous opinion of the public — that engineering is an overcrowded profession. We in engineering, however, should know more of the problem — should know whether, in fact, we can produce as many graduates as industry requires."
"CERTAIN TRENDS have been developing during recent years that promise greatly improved economic and professional status for the engineer of tomorrow. While the trends in question are natural, thus inevitable, they have been markedly hastened by two sets of circumstances: the tremendous acceleration of technological progress during World War II, and the shortage of trained engineers that has existed during the past decade and threatens to continue through most of the next."
"UNTIL ABOUT 20 years ago, transmission engineers felt that transpositions at fairly close intervals were a necessity on high-voltage lines in order to co-ordinate communication and power systems. However, in many large high-voltage systems, the number of transposition structures has been reduced greatly and the matter of co-ordination has not produced any difficulties. Many new lines have been built with no transpositions, and remedial measures necessary for inductive co-ordination have been few since these lines were placed in service. The change in practice is the result of several factors. Separate rights of way for communication and power lines, use of underground cables or otherwise shielded circuits for communication purposes, reduced susceptibility of the communication equipment to noise, and improved designs of transformers and rotating machines leading to better wave shapes are some of the reasons."
"FOR APPLICATIONS which require a rapid increase of reactive kilovolt-amperes with moderate increase in voltage, a reactor with a closed iron core represents a practical solution. By operating the core slightly below saturation, moderate increments in applied voltage will produce large increments of current by forcing the core to operate above saturation for portions of a cycle."
"This new high-capacity switchgear development laboratory is considered a necessary adjunct to the company's engineering and manufacturing facilities. It will be used primarily for circuit interrupter development, but it can perform many types of tests."
"The need for communication between design engineers and those engaged in research on feedback control systems has been felt by many people. This article stresses this as well as the problems faced by and the limitations imposed on design engineers."
"COMPARISON OF nondestructive and destructive tests on old a-c generators before rewind, new generators, and coil specimens has brought fresh hope for the nondestructive evaluation of machine insulation. Results apply to mica-shellac insulation; other types are now under study."
"TRANSFORMER-LOSS COMPENSATORS serve for the measurement of energy and demand as of the high-voltage side of power transformer banks with metering equipment located entirely on the low-voltage side. Advantages of their use are: generally lower costs;1 savings in space; less exposure to lightning and other disturbances; and the conservation of critical materials. The basic compensator2 comprises copper-loss and iron-loss elements that cause the meter to include these losses in its registration."
"THE ADVENT OF high-temperature insulations, such as silicones, has moved upward the possible design limit due to deterioration of insulation with temperature. Formerly, the transformer designer used insulation to the temperature limit dictated by its aging characteristics and a reasonable life. The point is now reached, however, at which other factors should be considered. Higher temperatures may cause large variations of electrical characteristics as the load is varied and also cost of losses may overbalance savings in initial cost, and the decrease in size and weight."
"THE FIELD OF the semiconductors embraces that broad category of solid materials whose characteristics lie between those of the conductors and the insulators. The mechanisms governing their behavior are not well known. They can be broadly divided into two categories, the compounds and the elements. Among the elemental semiconductors exhibiting rectifying properties are silicon, gray tin, and germanium. Of these, germanium has been studied most intensively because its physical properties are best suited for industrial application, although silicon crystals were in use long before the rectifying properties of germanium were recognized. Thus, the following discussion presents, in engineering language but in a simplified manner, some of the mechanisms governing the behavior of germanium. However, it must be understood that because of the complexity of the subject and the lack of understanding of many of the phenomena, the explanations given are, in many cases, not rigorous and in the light of future developments may even be erroneous. However, they provide a working understanding of the behavior and limitations of germanium as applied to industrial devices, and permit following future developments of the devices with some comprehension."
"This compact frequency-shift carrier telegraph system provides channels in and above the voice range. The channel terminal unit incorporates arrangements for handling Teletypewriter Exchange Service supervisory signals and employs no electromagnetic relays."
"VOLTAGE TRANSFORMERS for voltages up through 14,400 volts have been manufactured as dry-type units for many years because there always has been a strong demand that oil-filled apparatus be eliminated from the switchgear and meter boxes in which these units were installed."
"THE PRESENT TREND of developing static, maintenance-free telephone equipment is highly justifiable in power-supply design, and when it was necessary to furnish a small battery charger for the Bell System Transcontinental Microwave Radio Relay, effort was concentrated on magnetic-amplifier regulation methods."
"ELECTRIC POWER SYSTEMS have grown tremendously in the first half of the 20th century. As the number of loads, paths for power flow, and generator sources increase, the problem of making electric system calculations of all varieties becomes more complex. To perform these necessary calculations economically, utility planning engineers have used network analyzers such as the one purchased by the American Gas and Electric Service Corporation."
"This unusual oscillator, composed of a series generator and shunt motor, is analyzed to illustrate the relationship between analysis and test. While having no immediately apparent application, this oscillator provides an interesting academic problem."
"IN THE COURSE of a University “Open House” exhibition at the University of Michigan, a self-excited series generator — shunt motor oscillator was demonstrated. This inspired some of the students to search the literature for a theoretical discussion of the rotating machine oscillator. When their search proved fruitless, this brief essay was prepared and some quantitative tests of the theory presented were made. These tests are submitted for what value they may have for other teachers and anyone else who might be interested in the subject of machinery system analysis."
"THE ELECTRICAL PROPERTIES of deteriorated insulating oils can be restored by pumping the oil through alumina or activated clays. Some transformer operators use this method to clean up old oil and others process their transformer oil in this manner."
"TO DETERMINE past and present practice for generator leads, a questionnaire was sent to utility and engineering companies requesting a description of the design and material used for each of their installations and their basic reasons for the type of installation chosen. They also were requested to cite any operating failures or difficulties and state whether the same design would be used again and, if not, why not. To avoid attempting to cover too much ground, the questionnaire was confined to generators having a rating of 20,000 kw or larger, installed in the past 10 years, or now being installed."
"Cobalt and nickel shortages highlight the introduction of this permanent-magnet material which uses no strategic materials. Magnets composed of it display a high coercive force and excellent resistance to demagnetization."
"With the advent of modern transonic and supersonic aircraft speeds, the size and complexity of wind tunnels to develop designs and evaluate performance has increased enormously. A change in the conventional Kraemer type of control system is presented as a possible solution to the current need."
"Four different makes of locomotive, totalling 197 units operating on over 3,000 miles of railroad, furnish the basis of this report on troubles encountered in diesel-electric operation."
"Attended by more than 1,000 electronic engineers and technical authorities, the symposium on “Progress in Quality Electronic Components” was held in the Auditorium of the Department of the Interior, Washington, D. C., May 5–7, 1952. The conference was sponsored by the AIEE, Institute of Radio Engineers, Radio-Television Manufacturers Association, and participated in by agencies of the Department of Defense and the National Bureau of Standards. An up-to-the-minute report was presented at five technical sessions by 40 speakers on the newest components and basic materials."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Approximately 250 engineers from as far away as Louisiana, California, Washington, and Canada, gathered in Pittsburgh, Pa., for the Conference on Electronic Converter Applications and Tubes, May 19–20, 1952."
"On Wednesday, May 21, 1952, the Steinmetz Memorial Foundation and the AIEE Schenectady Section presented the 24th Steinmetz Memorial Lecture at the Memorial Chapel of Union College, Schenectady, N. Y. Over 400 people were present to hear Dr. Hollis L. Cas well speak on “The Great Reappraisal of Public Education.”"
"The regular meeting of the AIEE Board of Directors was held in the Jefferson Hotel, St. Louis, Mo., on April 17, 1952."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Operational safety on the airways has been improved by the development of an instrument which automatically calculates an aircraft's distance and azimuth from a known point of radio transmission on the ground. The instrument is called a pictorial computer and was designed, developed, and manufactured by Arma Corporation, subsidiary of American Bosch Corporation, Brooklyn, N. Y."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"An electric mouse with a man-made super-memory is busily at work these days, repeatedly threading its way through a series of complicated mazes at Bell Telephone Laboratories. The handiwork of Dr. C. E. Shannon, a mathematician associated with the Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc., the mouse uses for its “brain” some of the same kind of switching relays found in dial telephone systems. The reason it exists is to provide fundamental knowledge which will help improve telephone service."
"The second convention of UPADI (Pan-American Union of Engineering Societies) will be held in New Orleans, La., August 25–30, 1952. It is expected that the meeting will attract approximately 200 engineers representing the professional societies throughout Central and South America. The site and time were chosen to permit the Latin delegates to participate in the observances commemorating the Centennial of Engineering being held in Chicago, Ill."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Professor McMillan herein reports on the progress of the Institute during his administration as President. In the course of that year, membership increased by more than 13 percent, with a subsequent increase in Section and committee activities, a new publications policy was formulated, and plans for a new Engineering Societies Center were considered."
"The characteristics of this computer are presented along with contemplated improvements. A list of some of the actual problems handled is also included."
"This klystron is a cascade amplifier developed expressly for crystal-controlled pulse operation in the 960- to 1,215-megacycle range for air navigational aids. It is designed for use either with a variable-duty or fixed-duty cycle. Some of the design concepts, tube design, and its characteristics are discussed."
"DURING THE PAST 30 years improved design and insulation techniques have approximately doubled the impulse strength of high-voltage power transformers. The impulse generator has played an important role in this development. The purpose of this article is to discuss the principal uses of the impulse generator as related to the manufacture of transformers. These uses may be divided into two categories: fundamental study and verification and quality control."
"The divergent practices followed in preparing investment cost estimates are discussed, and a plea for consistency made. Many specific problems such as “out-of-pocket” costs, indirect construction costs, and retirement of facilities also receive attention."
"ONE OF THE PROBLEMS facing utilities is that of restoring service after extended outages on heavily loaded distribution circuits. The accumulated demand which appears during an outage of more than 20 minutes quite often causes difficulty when re-energizing the line. The solution becomes one of breaking the system into segments which are then re-energized successively rather than all at once."
"THIS SESSION TODAY marks the 24th occasion at which our Lamme Medal has been presented to some member of the Institute. These awards have been made at consecutive Summer General Meetings of the Institute since 1929. All of them recognize some special “meritorius achievement in the development of electrical apparatus or machinery.”"
"THIS IS ONE of the happiest occasions in which it has been my fortune to participate. It is a matter of keen pleasure and gratification to me, and to others who have known and been associated with Arthur Silver, to see his great contributions to engineering progress and to the advancement of techniques, practices, and equipment in the electric power industry, recognized by the award of the Lamme Medal. To me it is an unforgettable honor to take part in the presentation."
"I AM DEEPLY MOVED by being chosen recipient of the Lamme Medal for 1951. I am indeed proud and grateful for this high honor, and accept it as a tribute to the contributions of those associated with me, as well as for myself."
"When an aircraft self-excited d-c generator develops either a full-field short-circuit fault or a generator feeder fault, protection to the generator must be afforded. The method here described is the application of a short circuit between the generator output terminals thus disabling the power-generating capabilities of the machine."
"CORONA AS DEFINED HERE is an ionization in any insulating media and in any form of discharges that result in a partial breakdown of the insulation accompanied by a loss of some electric energy in the system. In particular, impulse corona is defined as corona that is caused by an impulse voltage such as a 1.5×40-microsecond wave."
"The aperiodic coupling unit and potential device described here have a performance that substantially exceeds the minimum requirements set forth in the AIEE Standard Number 31. Their use also eliminates several difficulties present in the conventional installation."
"THE AVERAGE VALUES of the capacitance and surface voltage gradient of a 3-phase transmission line can be computed quickly by well-known formulas. However, the surface voltage gradient on some parts of the line may be several per cent higher than the average value. Precise computations of this important quantity for the individual conductors are of engineering value and often are made."
"Polyethylene terephthalate, or “Mylar,” is a new rival of paper for use as the dielectric in electric capacitors. It appears superior in regard to insulation resistance, temperature coefficient of capacitance, and operating temperature range."
"When rows of looms on the upper floor of a building are operating in a certain unison, their combined in-step forces tend to cause structural damage to the walls and building foundation. A scheme is presented to prevent adjacent looms from getting in this dangerous synchronism."
"USE OF THE FACILITIES of the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) network for tests of the Brown Boveri 230-kv air-blast circuit breaker at the switchyard of Grand Coulee powerhouse of the Bureau of Reclamation was motivated by the desire of all concerned to check the operating characteristics of a high-voltage, high-interrupting-capacity air-blast-type circuit breaker which has the following important advantages as compared with the conventional dead-tank-type oil circuit breaker: 1. absence of fire-hazardous oil; 2. decrease in oil storage facilities; and 3. ease of inspection of contacts and of maintenance and less frequent maintenance."
"SINCE THE INTRODUCTION of the first a-c network analyzer in 1929, the number in use has risen to more than 25 at present. Although existing types of a-c boards have proved invaluable, a great need exists for a much more compact and less expensive board. To meet this need an a-c board has been designed and built which occupies a floor space of about 60 square feet, compared with about 700 square feet for a board of conventional design, and which can be built to sell for about 20 per cent of the cost of a board of conventional design."
"Although the development of color television is in a fluid state, one of the outstanding steps in the progress of the art is the tricolor kinescope. There have been many problems to overcome, not only in the functioning of the tube, but in its construction."
"The circuit examined is the series-connected magnetic amplifier of Figure 1. This circuit has been the subject of many analyses; however, in almost all instances simplifying assumptions were made concerning the magnitude of some of the circuit parameters, but very little work has been done on circuits in which La and Ld were not zero. This article analyzes and discusses the changes in current waveshape produced by variation of the circuit parameters Ed, Ra, Ld, Ra, and Laa."
"A GRAPHICAL CALCULATION of the magnetizing force H makes it possible to find the values of induction, short-circuit forces, and so forth, easily."
"An analysis of protection of a typical 28-volt d-c distribution system for large multiengine aircraft is presented. Conclusions regarding bus and feeder fault protection and arrangement are included."
"This article concentrates on the range of frequencies commonly generated by induction alternators, tabulating current-carrying capacity, resistance, and reactance per unit length for 10,000, 3,000, and 1,000 cycles. However, equations applicable to much higher and lower frequencies are included."
"The data presented here are based on a study of the relative power limit for different types and locations of faults on an initial system that could be represented by two or three machines, and a further series of studies of the relative effect of type of fault, location of fault, speed of clearing and reclosing the faulted line, and the direction of power flow in the interconnecting tie circuit."
"The notched-disk memory appears to be a very significant development in electromechanical information storage techniques. Its possible applications are manifold, including such diversified automatic information processing activities as electronic computing, telephone switching, ticket reservations, optical recording, and business accounting."
"The AIEE Pacific General Meeting will be held in Phoenix, Ariz., August 19–22, 1952. Phoenix is a hospitable city and the friendliness, which is everywhere so evident in the Southwest, is truly traditional in the Valley of the Sun. The Westward Ho Hotel has been chosen as the headquarters hotel and all technical sessions and social functions will be held in this completely air-conditioned hotel. Bus and car transportation for all inspection trips will be arranged for at the hotel."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The AIEE announces an outstanding program marking the participation of the AIEE in a great convocation of 50 engineering organizations celebrating the founding of the first professional engineering society in 1852. The Convocation of the Centennial of Engineering — 1952 will be held in Chicago, Ill., September 3–13, 1952, and is expected to attract more than 25,000 engineers from the United States and many foreign countries. (ee also poge 771.)"
"The 68th annual Summer General Meeting of the AIEE in combination with the 50th anniversary of the AIEE Minnesota Section was held at the Nicollet Hotel, Minneapolis, Minn., June 23–27. The attendance of 1,786 members and guests represented all parts of the United States and Canada."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"An electronic “brain,” the first of its kind in commercial use, has been put into service by American Airlines in New York, N. Y. The Magnetronic Reservisor is designed to keep accurate and up-to-the-moment information on seats available and to reduce to a matter of seconds the time it takes to make a passenger's reservation."
"The world's largest and most powerful “human centrifuge,” a machine to subject pilots to extreme gravitational conditions encountered in sonic-speed aircraft, has been put into operation at the United States Naval Aviation Medical Acceleration Laboratory, Johnsville, Pa."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"In accordance with the custom of his era, most of Alessandro Volta's scientific discoveries and activities are described in his letters — to societies, to his friends, and to his fellow scientists. As a contrast to today's impersonal technical articles, however, these letters go beyond the mere presentation of scientific information to give us an insight into the character and personality of the man himself."
"Protective equipment for 120-volt aircraft electric systems has been lacking. Now a new circuit breaker with ratings from 40 to 125 amperes has been developed for a-c or d-c systems."
"A plan for automatic long-distance switching, which ultimately will embrace the whole of the United States and extend into Canada and perhaps Mexico, has been formulated and important steps have been taken toward its realization. The plan also contemplates that telephone customers will be able to dial longdistance calls themselves."
"THE WESTERN UNION high-speed facsimile terminal transmits and receives copy up to 8 1/2 by 15 inches at the rate of 2 1/8 square inches per second. Assuming normal margins at top and bottom of page, 8 1/2- by 11-inch letters may be sent at the rate of 80 per hour, including phasing time between messages."
"The introduction of mechanical operation and general improvement in the transmission performance of the communication plant over the years permits the fundamental plans under which toll facilities are provided to be revised rather radically. The important new features and service improvements of the current plans are outlined herein."
"The principal soft magnetic alloys have been rolled to thicknesses between 1/8 and 1 mil. This study was restricted to those metal tapes having high permeability and a relatively high resistivity to minimize eddy-current effects."
"Performance calculations on single-phase induction motors require two to four times as long as comparable calculations on polyphase motors. A new calculator based upon a new revolving-field equivalent circuit has shortened the time for making these calculations and has made practicable many calculations which were formerly too time-consuming."
"THE AUTHOR recently published Tables of Green's Functions1 for the solution of partial differential equations in rectangular co-ordinates. The Green's Functions, as given in those tables, include only scalar potentials. However, in dealing with the fields due to currents or permanent magnets, vector potentials usually are used. These vector potentials also can be derived from the Tables of Green's Functions as is shown here."
"A description of the operation of this system with 1,331 megavolt-amperes of synchronous condensers is presented. Oscillograms of two unrelated cases of instability are discussed."
"THERE HAS BEEN a galaxy of dissimilar trolley electrifications scattered throughout the world, nearly all of them successful in a way, but reflecting a lack of co-ordination among the proponents of this type of propulsion. Once having chosen a system, a railroad sometimes finds it expensive to change to another."
"Final plans have been made for the variety of technical sessions, entertainment events, and inspection trips scheduled for the 1952 Fall General Meeting to be held in New Orleans, La., October 13–17. Headquarters will be at the Jung Hotel."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following rules for the award of prizes for AIEE technical papers were approved by the Board of Directors June 23, 1949, and revised June 26, 1952."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"To summarize some of the highlights in the report of the Board of Directors for the fiscal year ending April 30, 1952, a glance has been taken back over the years to 1942. During that 10-year interval, the growth of the Institute and the expansion of its activities have been phenomenal. The membership has more than doubled, the number of committees and subcommittees has been increased more than threefold. The number of Sections has grown from 72 to 95, with 50 Subsections, and the number of Branches has expanded from 124 to 132, 81 of which are Joint AIEE — Institute of Radio Engineers Branches. The attendance at meetings was greater than ever before and more than twice as many papers are now being published. President McMillan analyzed this growth and described other important Institute activities in an address entitled “Our Achievements,” published in Electrical Engineering for August 1952, pages 677–80."
"THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers presents to the membership its 68th annual report, covering the fiscal year ending April 30, 1952. It contains a brief summary of the principal activities of the Institute during the year, a general balance sheet showing the financial condition of the Institute at the close of the fiscal year, a statement of cash receipts and disbursements, and a schedule of securities owned. Much additional information regarding the activities appeared in various issues of Electrical Engineering."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The “walkie-lookie,” compact battery-operated back-pack television transmitting equipment, popularly called the “creepic-peepie,” was used for close-ups for the first time by the National Broadcasting Company in its television network coverage of the national Presidential conventions."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A versatile electron-optical bench has been constructed recently at the National Bureau of Standards (NBS) for the extensive study of electron-optical elements. Carriages for magnetic lenses, mirrors, or prisms, and holders for apertures, objectives, and meshes are arranged appropriately in a vacuum chamber. External positioning controls are also provided, offering three degrees of freedom for each element. The bench was developed by the NBS electron physics laboratory. It has become an integral part of a program devoted to the investigation of extremely small electric and magnetic fields in spaces that heretofore have been inaccessible to conventional types of measurement.1"
"Record electron and X-ray energies, as well as a speed never before attained by man-accelerated matter, have been reached in the synchrotron under construction at the California Institute of Technology, Pasadena, for the past 2 years, it was announced recently."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"President Quarles, in an address before the recent Pacific General Meeting in Phoenix, evaluates the evolution in AIEE organization and policy as the Institute enters a new administrative year."
"As presently estimated, current needs for engineers are more than twice the maximum long-term trends. As a remedial measure, Dean Eshbach points out the need for training on an intermediary technical level to conserve engineering talent for strictly engineering jobs. To interest qualified young people in engineering as a career, he emphasizes the desirability of providing an elementary foundation in mathematics and science in the high schools."
"MEASUREMENTS OF THE power factor and resistance characteristics of transformer insulation are being used increasingly for the control of quality in the factory. The usefulness of these measurements is based on the fact that they are affected by any ionizable impurity such as water, low molecular weight acids from oil deterioration, soluble salts, and other contaminants. In the factory, the principal use for these measurements is the detection of moisture. This moisture has the effect of increasing the insulation power factor, decreasing the insulation resistance, and decreasing the dielectric absorption effect."
"Radio noise has been a major concern in highvoltage transmission-line design. The Bonneville Power Administration began a study of the situation during the war emergency. This article is a report on the continuation of that research."
"With the advance of electronic equipment into the microwave region and the increased use of these high frequencies in the medical field, studies have been inaugurated to ascertain their effects on living organisms. Findings of experiments on laboratory animals indicate that these waves heat internal organs dangerously upon long irradiation."
"THE OPERATING COST of large transonic wind tunnels, such as the Southern California Co-operative Wind Tunnel (CWT), is so high that it is important that the data be recorded as quickly and efficiently as possible without sacrificing reliability. The time-consuming task of permanently recording the many measurements required during the testing of modern airplanes has led to the recent development of several automatic recording devices which read the position of a force-measuring instrument, translate the reading into a whole number, and then print the number on a data sheet. None of these devices seemed to be suited particularly to the reading of the potentiometers which are currently used at the CWT for indicating forces by means of resistance strain gauges mounted on small balances within the model."
"THE MODERN INDUSTRIAL switching locomotive had its beginning some 60 years ago. At first it was just electric — the diesel-electric offshoot not appearing until 1925. Fundamentally it is still electric, only its source of power is different."
"At the present time a great variation in the types of telephone numbers exists. This is because of the number of telephones in communities of different sizes. With the advent of local dialing and now nation-wide dialing, a uniform numbering system has become necessary."
"The new system was designed to implement the nation-wide switching plan which integrates the telephone switching network of the entire nation into a single unit. Requiring a high order of mechanical intelligence, this system is one of the most comprehensive ever devised."
"Requirements of the Underwriters' Laboratories relating to the grounding of portable equipment are based on rules of the National Electrical Code, which is basically rules covering the installation of electric equipment in buildings. Part of the Laboratories' function is to determine that the listed electrical products can be installed in accordance with the Code's rules."
"IT IS ADMITTEDLY difficult to anticipate future variations in some of the factors involved in economic studies, such as taxes and probable life, just as it is difficult for the transmission-line designer to anticipate future loads and power factors. But in neither problem is the correct arithmetic a matter of personal judgement; the arithmetic of economic comparisons is as rigorous and clear-cut as Ohm's Law. This article deals with the appropriate treatment of return on the investment, depreciation, taxes, and insurance."
"THE FIRST PART of this series1 introduced new measurements and a new set of equations L=MP to express the performance of a transmission system in terms of real generator powers P. The equations may be used, among others, for I2R loss calculations and economic loading studies. The results of Part I may be generalized in two different directions: 1. The assumptions about the operating behavior of a single division are generalized. 2. Several divisions are interconnected through tie lines and information is desired about each division and about the total system."
"The design of a prototype Eccles-Jordan flip-flop as used in large-scale digital computers is discussed, stressing the role of component variability. A graphical design technique is given, which should prove helpful in other switching circuit design problems using a large number of identical direct-coupled circuits."
"IN FILTER DESIGN the determination of expected attenuation may be accomplished by the use of the basic formula for the propagation constant of a ladder-type half-section, $P = \\alpha + j \\beta = \\sinh^{-1} \\sqrt Zr^{\\prime \\underline{\\phi}}$, but this necessitates long and tedious calculation. Graphical methods often have been used but the lengthy calculation of $\\sqrt Zr^{\\prime \\underline{\\phi}}$ usually has remained even with dissipation neglected."
"Numerous outstanding advantages of “Magamps” are presented which help make possible more reliable, faster, simpler, and inherently more stable regulating systems. Several industrial applications exemplifying these characteristics are discussed."
"These ferroelectric storage devices, although still comparatively new, show great promise. They can store up to 2,500 bits of information per square inch in a surface only a few thousandths of an inch thick with pulses less than a microsecond long."
"The AIEE-EEI-NEMA Joint Committee on Co-ordination of Insulation, at its meeting in New York, N. Y., May 8 and 9, 1950, adopted the values of impulse voltages given in Table I as Standard Basic Impulse Insulation Levels and prepared Table II to illustrate the allocation of these levels."
"THE OBJECTIVE OF economic comparisons is to estimate in advance the financial effect of adopting one particular plan of action instead of some alternative. One of the major factors in such studies is the return on investment, representing the annual rental paid for money."
"MANY PRESENT-DAY servo systems employ the 2-phase induction motor as the electromechanical energy conversion member. Common practice is to supply one phase from a suitable constant-voltage source while the pertinent control information is carried in the form of the voltage magnitude variation impressed on the second or control winding. This voltage is maintained displaced at 90 degrees from the main winding voltage."
"Impulse testing, when used as a quality control tool in the manufacturing of distribution transformers, functions as an invisible inspector and acts as a final check on manufacturing operations. It also minimizes the number of transformer failures upon initial connection to the power circuits."
"The principle upon which this telemetering system functions is that the magnitude of a measured variable quantity is converted into a pulse of proportional time width and was developed for remote monitoring of pumping stations on a pipe line to permit automatic operation from a central dispatch office."
"Ionizing radiation detectors of all types are becoming of increasing importance and the most important types for portable radiation detectors have been ionization chambers and Geiger tubes. Herein is described a new portable detector, the phosphor-phototube type, which is a novel development."
"Three days of interesting and varied activities are in store for AIEE members who plan to attend the Middle Eastern District Meeting, October 28–30, 1952. Toledo, Ohio, glass center and leading coal port of the world, is host for this meeting. The Commodore Perry Hotel has been chosen as headquarters hotel and all technical sessions will be held there. The sessions have been carefully planned to cover a varied field of interests and the inspection trips will afford an opportunity to see a cross section of Toledo's industry."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A full week of stimulating technical sessions, interest-packed inspection trips, and relaxing entertainment awaits the AIEE membership at the Fall General Meeting in New Orleans, La., October 13–17, 1952. Both the technical program and the inspection trips were planned with the wide interests of the membership in mind. Headquarters for the meeting will be at the Hotel Jung."
"A regular meeting of the AIEE Board of Directors was held in the Hotel Nicollet, Minneapolis, Minn., on June 26, 1952."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"The Light and Vision Institute, a unique center for the demonstration of lighting principles and practices and for the solution of lighting problems, has been incorporated in the offices of the Holophane Company, Inc. This center, which is also a lecture hall, forms an integral part of the company's research program. Its facilities permit the demonstration of all types of prismatic light control, and of the latest developments in lighting equipment and methods. They also permit the investigation and checking of mechanical and optical performance, and of field practices."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Since the organization of the American Society of Civil Engineers 100 years ago, professional engineering has assumed a major role in American life. The goal now to be attained is the closer organization of the entire engineering profession."
"The president of the Bell Telephone Laboratories reviews the contributions of communications and electronics to America's strength and culture and indicates some significant trends in the evolution of their technology."
"The 1952 Faraday Medal of the Institution of Electrical Engineers of Great Britain has been awarded to E. O. Lawrence, director of the Radiation Laboratory at the University of California. Presentation was made during the recent Centennial of Engineering celebration in Chicago."
"DURING THE EARLY YEARS of the electrical industry it was found that transmission-line transpositions were essential in order to reduce undesirable communication circuit interference. This was due largely to the extreme susceptibility of early communication circuits to both 60-cycle and harmonic frequency disturbance. However, developments in communication practice have reduced greatly this justification for power-line transposition, such as the use of underground or otherwise shielded circuits and separate rights of way."
"During the past 100 years, electricity has evolved from a parlor trick to the tremendous and vital role that it plays in American life today. Paralleling the advances in engineering has been the rise of the engineering societies, with the first of these, the American Society of Civil Engineers, being founded in 1852. The AIEE was organized 32 years later."
"DESIGNERS OF POWER TRANSFORMERS and distribution transformers have a guide number to use in starting their first design. This is expressed by the equation $V_{t} = K \\sqrt{kva}$ where Vt is the volts per turn to use in starting the first design; K is a constant which may vary between relatively narrow limits; and kva is the kilovolt-ampere rating of the transformer."
"The distribution system for house and tenant power and lighting including the heating, ventilating, air conditioning, plumbing, sprinkler, and snow-melting systems, elevators, moving stairs, signs, interior and exterior lighting, and the control, communication, and signaling systems which include the public address, clock, bus dispatching, bus counting, fire alarm, and sprinkler supervisory systems, as well as the watch engineer's supervisory control system, are discussed."
"THE EFFECT OF the thermal resistivity of the soil on the temperature of a buried cable is well known. It is of more importance for the newer directly buried and pipe-type installations in which the temperature rise through the soil forms a larger percentage of the total temperature rise than is the case with the older concreteduct types."
"Developed since the middle of the century of engineering progress marked by the recent Centennial celebration, the electronics industry has shown remarkable growth. This amazing evolution of an industry, however, cannot be attributed to any specific invention or discovery, but to a continuous record of development and research."
"MANAGEMENT IS faced frequently with the problem of selecting the most desirable plan from several possible alternatives which affect system capacity. Comparison of the various proposals may reveal differences in several respects in addition to the amount of system capacity, such as the time and amount of capital investment required, the relative service reliability of the different plans, and their simplicity or flexibility. This article deals with two particularly troublesome questions that arise when alternative plans differ in plant capacity supplied or required."
"The emphasis is placed on recurrent concepts underlying entire groups of nonacceptable electric devices to try and save potential manufacturers and users from further disappointment In addition, the article helps focus attention on problems in need of further research."
"THE CONVENTIONAL TRANSFORMER, which predominates in the number of units in service, is protected by high-voltage fuses and lightning arresters that are normally mounted separate from the transformer, while the protected transformer is a packaged unit having, integrally mounted for its protection, low-voltage circuit breakers, high-voltage fusible links, and lightning arresters."
"The advantages of the individual generator system for most applications of adjustable-speed drives has caused it to be used increasingly for sectional drives. As a result, “packaged” drives for individual sections of machines have become more popular and have increased machine flexibility and simplicity. Several of these typical drives are discussed here."
"THE OBJECTIVE OF combining improved performance with saving in materials has been accomplished in the redesign of a line of liquid-filled bushings in ratings 15 kv through 69 kv. In this redesign, the mechanical and electrical reliability of the bushings in service has been improved and field servicing and repairs have been facilitated. Simultaneously, the design has been simplified to reduce the size of some parts and eliminate others."
"This new general-purpose electromagnetic relay, called the AF type, is a wire spring relay. With variations providing slow release or marginal characteristics, it is known as the AG and AJ relay respectively. It provides improved performance at lower cost."
"THERE ARE THREE general characteristics of steam generating station design that distinguish this particular cable application problem from others. Maximum reliability is one characteristic. The failure of a power or control cable may cause the shutdown of a great part or all of the power station. The total cost of the cable system in an average power system will be about 1 or 2 per cent of the total station cost. Increasing the cost of the cable system would not be out of order if an appreciable increase in reliability could be obtained. In the case of a utility distribution system, an increase of 1/64 inch of insulation applies to hundreds of miles of cable and represents a major item of cost, while in a central station, it is a relatively minor item and therefore, the use of insulation classes well above operating voltage may be fully justified."
"NETWORK SYNTHESIS is the art of constructing a network whose behavior is prescribed. Usually, the term behavior refers to some particular response of the network to a particular stimulus. The network illustrated in Figure 1 is assumed to have two pairs of accessible terminals, and a response which may be of interest is E2, the open-circuit voltage at terminals 2, when the stimulus is E1, the open-circuit voltage at terminals 1. The behavior in this case is the transfer function of the network, defined as the ratio E2/E1 = θ(p), a function of the complex frequency variable p = σ+iω. Generally, the realization of a network function includes a statement of the necessary and sufficient conditions which such function must satisfy, and a procedure for constructing the network."
"This digital computer can perform 38 different operations. A test problem, which checks all operations performed by the machine and requires only about 0.1 second to complete, can be used during regular operation to provide assurance that the machine is functioning properly."
"AT PRESENT, all insulating materials are classified by chemical composition into groups with specified maximum operating temperatures. Because many materials, especially those in the organic group, differ widely in their stability toward heat aging, these definitions have become too restrictive. To replace this system, a new method of classification is proposed based on the ability of a material to perform an insulation function. This method is intended to apply specifically to random wound induction motors in the approximate range of 1 to 40 horsepower or to equipment using a similar insulation system."
"Information is presented which indicates that standards are still inadequate to differentiate clearly the temperature classes of insulation and several changes are suggested to improve and broaden those standards."
"Information is presented which indicates that standards are still inadequate to differentiate clearly the temperature classes of insulation and several changes are suggested to improve and broaden those standards."
"IT IS OFTEN DESIRABLE to test the effectiveness of the interlaminar insulation in a generator stator. Iron damage may be sustained as a consequence of mechanical abrasion or arc burning during a winding insulation failure. A simple flux test can be made to determine if the interlaminar insulation has been impaired within a damaged area which might develop into a hot spot when the machine is restored to service."
"THE USE OF grid-controlled rectifiers for the supply of controlled power to d-c machinery has raised the problem of the increased losses in motors used in this way. The output of a grid-controlled rectifier has a large ripple voltage, the waveform of which varies with the firing delay caused by the grid control. This ripple causes alternating currents to flow in the motor which do not add to the rotational power produced but which cause additional copper loss. In addition, another component of flux is created in the magnetic circuit which causes additional hysteresis and eddy current losses."
"The frequency-shift crystal oscillator and the crystal discriminator, which are vital to the channel equipment utilized, are described here. The former is used to generate the carrier signal and the latter is used in the receiver to reform the transmitted intelligence."
"A simple transformer device described here as a line-drop compensator greatly reduces voltage fluctuations produced at one load by the switching of another associated load. It applies to both steady-state and transient disturbances."
"Seventy technical sessions and conferences are already planned for the 1953 Winter General Meeting to be held January 19–23 at the Hotel Statler, New York, N. Y. As the 1952 meeting exceeded in size and attendance by 20 per cent the meeting which was held in 1951, so this year's meeting is expected to exceed the previous figures by a substantial margin."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Progress in all branches of the engineering profession over the past century was portrayed at the Centennial of Engineering and the Convocation of Engineers held in Chicago, Ill., September 3–13, 1952. Some 66 different societies participated in the convocation, a series of 12 symposia was conducted, and approximately 1,500 papers were presented. Total attendance was estimated at 27,000, including a foreign registration of more than 250 engineers from the free countries of Europe, Asia, and South America."
"A regular meeting of the AIEE Board of Directors was held in Phoenix, Ariz., August 21, 1952."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"The spectroscopic method, a simple yet highly effective technique for visual analysis of speech sounds, has been developed by the National Bureau of Standards (NBS). The Bureau is conducting an investigation of the many problems involved in recording and reproducing human speech. The present program is the outgrowth of assistance which the Bureau rendered the Library of Congress in improving the quality of “talking books,” voice recordings of selected literature which the Library supplies to the blind. In addition to performance studies of recording and reproducing equipment, new and improved methods of tests were worked out, and new types of recording media were investigated. In the course of this work, the spectroscopic technique was developed."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Development by the General Electric Company of a new alloy called “Gond-AI” has enabled the company to begin manufacture of steam turbine-generators which are 35 per cent more powerful than any of their type now in existence. The outcome of 8 years of research, Gond-Al is composed of aluminum, with very small quantities of iron, magnesium, and silicon."
"The Office of Salary Stabilization has released Interpretation Number 12, defining the scope of the amendment to the Defense Production Act which excludes from stabilization the salaries and other compensation of professional engineers. Joseph D. Cooper, Executive Director of the office, stated that it was the intent of Congress to limit this exemption specifically to “professional engineers employed in a professional capacity.”"
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The four important factors — the production workers, production machinery, production processes, and materials — controlling the rate of industrial progress are discussed and evaluated. New developments are included along with ideas concerning future trends."
"This year, which marks the Centennial of Engineering, also might be said to mark the coming of age of a professional field which was in its infancy a century ago. Feedback system engineering has gone beyond the mere development of new techniques and processes, however; it has created an entirely new philosophy at the design and analysis level."
"The advantages of shore-based radar to aid in the movement of marine traffic are discussed. Installations in the ports of Long Beach, Liverpool, Boston, and New York are described. The advancement of the three elements of harbor surveillance: radar, 2-way communication, and ship identification, are evaluated."
"THIS ARTICLE PRESENTS the results of studies of the factors which influence the power limits or design loadings of transmission lines. Recent investigations have shown the principal factors determining the loading of transmission circuits, particularly those for distances of 100 to 600 miles. Since there is a continuing trend toward the use of higher voltages, it is desirable to study their possibilities more completely over the entire range of distances expected for 230 kv and higher. Hence, the present investigation extends the earlier studies to include lines from 10 to 600 miles in length. The results are general as regards the stability limits (Base kva = 5.0 kv2) and may be applied to lines of any voltage level. The economic comparisons in this study pertain to the 287-kv voltage level, which is about in the middle of the range for 230 to 380 kv and fairly representative of the general economic picture for all voltages 230 kv and above."
"The problems facing engineers in their capacity as part of management are considered in this address given before the recent Middle Eastern District Meeting. As the author was unable to be at the meeting in person, the address was televised, via a closed telephone circuit, from Detroit to the audience in Toledo."
"In popular usage, the word “engineer” has come to include many men who are merely technicians or mechanics. In order to set a professional standard for engineers, many states now have passed registration laws defining the qualifications of a Professional Engineer. This article describes the provisions for registration in the State of California."
"Today the list of electrically operated appliances for use in the home includes an appliance for about every purpose that requires heat or mechanical power. Inventors began to suggest useful applications of electricity for the home 100 years ago."
"Management in its fundamental aspects is the same regardless of the kind of business enterprise. Effective management of engineering work is accomplished by applying the basic principles of the work of management to the work of engineering."
"Welding is discussed in terms of its historical perspective, various processes, materials, applications, research, educational aspects, and future prospects"
"ALTHOUGH THE concept of stability of dynamical systems is important in science, there exists no theory of sufficient generality to meet the needs of engineering. As a result only the simple stability problems have been solved. However there are in use several important tools which serve to yield at least partial results in many cases."
"THERE IS AN important class of feedback control systems known as sampled-data systems in which the data at one or more points consist of trains of pulses or sequences of numbers. Such systems may be analyzed by the use of classical difference equation techniques or by employing the Laplace and Fourier transform methods. It is the purpose of this article to unify and extend the latter methods of analysis of sampled-data systems, and to formulate the input-output relationships for such systems in the frequency domain."
"The superior speed capabilities of vacuum tubes have led to their use in computer designs to replace relays. Because of their small size, low power consumption, and long life expectancy, it now appears that transistors will replace tubes as computer elements. Here is a study of binary computer functions in which transistors are employed."
"Secondary banking, employing completely selfprotected banking transformers, is held to offer distinct advantages over the conventional radial connection under certain conditions. It reduces voltage flicker, provides better voltage regulation, less overload problems, and greater reliability. The use of low-voltage circuit breakers instead of fuses provides co-ordinated protection and eliminates the possibility of cascading."
"THE STEADILY INCREASING upper limits in flight speed and altitude for modern aircraft make the study of cooling systems for rotating electric equipment imperative. Experience with conventional fan- and blast∗∗∗cooling systems indicates poor cooling performance under many of the high-altitude high-speed conditions presently encountered. Several factors, such as decreasing air density at altitude which results in decreasing available pressure drop, air-weight flow, and heat transfer coefficients, contribute to equipment overheating. Further, the air pickup drag incurred in blast cooling can result in a loss of aircraft carrying capacity many times greater than the difference in weight between a blast-cooled system and a heavier system utilizing some other cooling method. For example, it is possible for some blast-cooling installations to incur drag penalties of the order of magnitude shown in Figure 1."
"In studying the crack resistance and weathering characteristics of polyethylene, considerable data have been collected which are presented here. The controlling factors and their practical significance are described."
"ANEW TROLLEY COACH CONTROL has been developed to operate with a motor which is series-excited in acceleration and shunt-excited in dynamic braking. Reliability and low maintenance have been stressed in keeping with the trolley coach reputation as the lowest cost vehicle."
"MOST TRANSMISSION SYSTEMS are grounded, usually solidly, and at several points. Consequently, except on a few cases, ample ground or residual current and voltage are available for ground relaying. Negative-sequence quantities also are used. None of these quantities are present during normal balanced 3-phase operation so that separate relays can be used, set sensitively, and below 3-phase load."
"THESE TENTATIVE DEFINITIONS of color television terms, prepared by Panel 19 under the chairmanship of R. M. Bowie, were approved for publication by the National Television System Committee (NTSC), W. R. G. Baker, Chairman, on August 6, 1952. Emphasis is placed on their tentative nature, as undoubtedly changes will be made as the art and usage of these terms progress. However, they are published at this time to indicate that work has been and continues to be done to bring color television closer to realization once full-scale effort again can be devoted to research in this field."
"A TIME DELAY LINE for low-frequency signals normally consists of a cascade connection of inductance-capacitance networks employing lumped constants. There are a number of types of low pass sections that are particularly useful where constant delay of signals ranging in frequency from near zero to some arbitrary upper limit, is required. Several of these, such as the M-derived and the bridged-T, have received considerable attention and have been discussed.1 However, one whose delay characteristic and simplicity of construction compares very favorably with others is the Pierce unsymmetrical section."
"The modern flight simulator is one of the largest and most complex types of electromechanical analogue computing equipment manufactured in production quantities for use outside the laboratory. Its history, economics, and design are considered here."
"IN 1939–40, soon after compressed air circuit breakers were first introduced in this country, interest in these circuit breakers by central station users was high and it remained so."
"OVERPOTENTIAL TESTS are applied to electric apparatus to demonstrate the ability of the insulation to withstand a specified voltage for a certain period of time. Industry standards accept overpotential tests as the only reliable tests for the dielectric level of machine insulations. Practically all recognized standard overpotential tests on electric machinery are made with alternating current. During the past several years, investigation of d-c overpotential testing indicated basic advantages over a-c testing and that direct current could be used as a satisfactory overpotential test on large high-voltage machines."
"THE ACTIVITIES of the Subcommittee on Electrical Tests on Dielectrics in the Field, established by its parent committee in 1940, are described in its scope as follows: “to investigate and evaluate the dominant features of instruments and techniques suitable for testing the electrical insulation of power apparatus in the field, to sponsor technical publications, and to suggest standard procedures for testing in the field.”"
"Developments in the art of transferring a gas discharge from one point to another in a multi∗∗∗-electrode tube have led to the design of a 10-stage counting tube operating up to about 2,000 pulses per second. Such a tube can be used for pulse counting, frequency division, time measurements, and similar functions."
"Since the 1953 Winter General Meeting was first announced (EE, Nov '52, pp 1036–7), the number of technical sessions and conferences being organized for the week of January 19–23 has been increased to 83. As only eight sessions can be accommodated at any time in the Statler, the headquarters hotel, the remaining sessions will be scheduled at the Engineering Societies Building, 33 West 39th Street. Among those subjects not previously mentioned are sessions on Petroleum Industry, Cathodic Protection, Storage Batteries, Ultraviolet and Infrared Sources and Applications, and Lighting Developments."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The New Orleans Section demonstrated the South's famous hospitality when it was host to more than 900 AIEE members and guests at the AIEE Fall General Meeting held in the Jung Hotel, New Orleans, La., October 13–17, 1952. A total of 26 technical sessions and a general opening session were conducted during the 5 days including an all-day meeting of the Board of Directors; District 4 Executive Committee and several technical committees also held meetings."
"The AIEE Middle Eastern District Meeting which was held at the Commodore Perry Hotel, Toledo, Ohio, October 28–30, 1952, was attended by 632 members from 20 states and Canada, France, and England. Sixteen technical sessions were conducted, of which five were devoted to electrical aspects of air transportation. A stag smoker was well attended on the first evening of the meeting and the talk by Grove Patterson, editor-in-chief of the Toledo Blade, made the Wednesday evening banquet a memorable occasion. Four inspection trips were enjoyed by the members."
"The University of Toledo engineering faculty and students were hosts to more than 300 representatives of 27 colleges and universities at the AIEE District 2 Student-Counselor Meeting held October 31 and November 1, 1952. A conference of the student chairmen took place on Friday morning and at the same time the Counselors were in conference. At the conclusion of these conferences, a group photograph was taken, followed by a luncheon in the university cafeteria."
"Miss Flora B. Hallock, secretary to AIEE Secretary H. H. Henline and a member of the Headquarters staff in New York, N. Y., for 40 years, retired October 17, 1952."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"One of the most difficult power generating and transmission projects ever attempted is being constructed in central British Columbia, Canada, 400 miles northwest of Vancouver. A 50-mile transmission line will deliver power from the Aluminum Company of Canada's gigantic subterranean powerhouse now under construction at Kemano, over a mile-high mountain pass to the world's largest aluminum smelter, 2 1/2 miles long, which the company is constructing at tidewater at the new town of Kitimat."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A new test facility for motor engineering development has been announced by the Locomotive and Car Equipment Department of the General Electric Company in Erie, Pa. This installation, covering 20,000 square feet, is equipped to test traction motors and generators for locomotives beyond the size of any now being built."
"The United States Air Force has disclosed that mammals were recovered alive and unharmed recently after being fired to approximately. 200,000 feet in the upper atmosphere in an Aerobee rocket. This flight provided information on the reactions of mammals under conditions of zero gravity and extreme altitude. Two monkeys and two mice, the mammals involved in this flight, were recovered alive and in good health after the test at Holloman Air Force Base, Alamogordo, N. Mex."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"NOTWITHSTANDING THE engineering manpower shortage and the national defense program, 1951 marks a year of many engineering developments. Advances in the art have been reported by the technical committees in all five divisions of Institute activities. In the field of communications, the completion of the transcontinental microwave radio-relay system, which was inaugurated during the Japanese Peace Treaty Conference in San Francisco, marks an epoch of engineering progress. In the field of illumination, the amount of light produced in 1950, measured in trillions of lumen-hours, was approximately double that used 5 years before. In the metals industries, there has been an increase in the speed and complexity of modern processing lines. Eastern mining has shown a trend toward increased use of mechanized equipment and the need of technically trained men for maintenance and operation. In the field of power generation, three exclusively gas-turbine stations went into operation for the first time. There is a trend toward larger sized units and if manpower and materials are available the next two years will set an all-time record of expansion. Also the first high-voltage series capacitor at 230 kv in the United States was placed in service at Chehalis, Oreg. In the realm of science and electronics, there has been a multiplicity of electronic applications through the whole gamut of industry: communication, control, power, instrumentation, research, and electrical techniques in medicine and biology. Cobalt 60 as an X-ray source has been employed for the treatment of deep-seated cancer and a synchrotron that produces the most powerful X-ray beam, 70,000,000 volts, ever generated for cancer research has been built."
"A Photographic Record of Some of the Important Electrical Engineering Achievements of the Year"
"By calling attention to the many aspects of the problem of recognition and unification of the engineering profession, the author hopes to indicate the scope of the analysis that is needed before attempting to solve the problem."
"THE AIM OF THIS report is to present, at least in spirit, the impressions of the committee concerning the adequacy of present-day engineering education and observations relating to what it estimates to be the standards employed by the engineering schools. Any attempt to appraise the present position of engineering education is destined to cause a certain amount of misunderstanding, due largely to the attitude of the reader at the time, and the impression the words convey in the climate provided by that attitude. Specific statements are often too limiting when taken literally, and generalizations are often too vague. An endeavor has been made, however, to present for consideration the committee's views on the present situation with the hope that, though brief and at times oversimplified and specific, the main observations will be accepted in their intended perspective."
"Using motors rated from a fraction of a horsepower up to 3,000 horsepower, the pulp and paper industry is driven largely by electric power. This article gives the method of determining motor requirements for some of the more important applications in this industry."
"THE 69-KV gas-filled pipe-type cable circuit through the Adams Tunnel under the Continental Divide is an integral part of the transmission link between power systems on the eastern and western slopes of the Rocky Mountains."
"A NEW DESIGN of high-voltage dead-tank type of oil circuit breaker has been developed for 230-kv service and above which requires a minimum amount of oil with the attendant simplification in methods of oil handling and maintenance procedures, while still retaining the advantages of the time-proved round tank construction. This circuit breaker culminates a period of intensive development over the past ten years during which, in the 230-kv class, the ratio of kilovolt-amperes interrupted per gallon of oil has increased by over 11 times."
"Six methods of resuscitation are described, and the results are compared with respect to lung ventilation, circulatory effects, rate of performance, and performance aspects."
"Finding wide application in the classroom, the operating room, and the laboratory, television methods are quickly proving themselves as a valuable aid to medical science. The television microscope and other applications are described in this article."
"ATTEMPTS TO MEASURE the steady-state characteristics of carbon-pile voltage regulators have been made repeatedly and have ended in failure because, upon increasing the voltage applied to the operating coil, a point is reached where the carbon-pile resistance no longer can be controlled by normal adjustments. It is not sufficient to attribute this result to lack of sensitivity in controlling the voltage. Instead the measurements reported upon here indicate that there exists an operating voltage above which the carbon-pile resistance jumps discontinuously to a high value."
"THE YEAR 1952 is the 200th anniversary of the flying of Benjamin Franklin's historic kite which drew electric charges from the atmosphere and proved the electrical nature of lightning. At that time Benjamin Franklin was 46 years old and already had attained fame as a printer, author, inventor, publisher, educator, scientist, philosopher, and patriot. His accomplishments are so varied that to comprehend all of them and their resulting effects on the history of civilization presents problems in time, understanding, and breadth of knowledge. That this is true is in itself a great tribute to Franklin."
"SINCE THE ANNOUNCEMENT of the magnetic fluid by J. Rabinow1 in 1948, several manufacturers have been producing magnetic fluid clutches for use primarily in servomechanisms. Though some manufacturers also have produced designs for breaking service, the author knows of no instance where the magnetic fluid has been used for absorption-dynamometer applications. The smoothness of control and the possibility of simple water cooling make this use very attractive."
"The particular characteristics of self-saturating magnetic amplifiers must be considered when selecting selenium rectifiers for their circuits. The effects of forward voltage drop, leakage, and capacitance are discussed, as is the selection of a rectifier stack for an amplifier."
"Some trends in the present-day design and use of a-c motor controllers for use on systems with line voltage from 601 to 5,000 volts are discussed, and some of the essential differences between controllers using air-break contacts and oil-immersed contacts are pointed out."
"THE RESPONSE of a fault locator utilizing traveling waves to measure distance to a fault depends not only on the design of the fault locator but also on the characteristics of the waves themselves. A mathematical analysis of a 3-phase system shows that because of losses and coupling between lines, two surge components are produced which travel at different speeds. The slow wave is equivalent to a current flow in the three wires in parallel, with a ground return; the fast wave is equivalent to current flow confined to the line conductors."
"The use of polyethylene as a cable sheath is discussed in the light of difficulties encountered during actual field use. Protection against weathering is one problem; another is stress cracking when the polyethylene is subjected to certain environments such as soaps, alcohols, and wetting agents."
"CALCULATION OF short-circuit currents on secondary networks is inherently lengthy and tedious because a very large number of electric circuits are involved."
"DRAG-CUP a-c tachometers have very important uses as velocity feedback elements in computing machines, automatic pilots for planes and missiles, automatic fire-control mechanisms, and in other military or industrial control applications. The tachometer is essentially a 2-phase induction generator designed so that when one phase of the stator is energized from a constant-amplitude constant-frequency voltage source the other stator phase gives a voltage of amplitude closely proportional to the speed at which the cup is driven and a phase nearly fixed with respect to the supply voltage, over a substantial speed range."
"With smoke abatement a major problem in many industrial areas, the electrostatic process of cleaning smoke-laden air deserves a better understanding by engineers. Various aspects of this process, with emphasis on the part played by the corona discharge, are discussed."
"The lightning hazard to base station radio equipment can be minimized by a number of precautionary measures outlined in this report prepared by the Subcommittee on Mobile Radio. Protection of the antenna, transmission line, and station equipment are discussed."
"THERE ARE A significant number of applications of d-c motors in which either the armature power, field excitation, or both, are supplied by one or more controlled rectifiers. In one type of servomechanism system, the speed of the motor is controlled through the armature power by a controlled rectifier; in another type, the motor speed is controlled by the action of a controlled rectifier upon the field excitation. Previous papers1,2 have been written wherein an analysis is made of the case where the armature power is supplied by a controlled rectifier under steady-state conditions. To the engineer interested in employing the d-c motor and controlled-rectifier combination as a prime mover in a closed-loop control system, the steady-state analysis is significant but not necessarily sufficient."
"Vibration fatigue is a hazard to overhead transmission lines. A comparison is made in this article of several types of overhead ground wire construction and the methods used to avoid damage caused by vibration fatigue."
"AN ANALYSIS OF sampled-data servomechanisms which is useful in system design is described in this article. A sampled-data system has a sampling device at some point in the transmission. A sampling device has an output which is related only to input samples which are taken at instants equally spaced in time. If θi(t) be the input signal to the device, then the output is related in a linear fashion to θi(nT), where n is any integer and the constant T is the length of time between samples. When the sampling device is put in the feed-forward section of a servomechanism, special stability problems arise which are not present in the conventional servomechanism with continuously supplied error data."
"OTHER PAPERS TREAT the various factors involved in comparing the cost of two or more means of accomplishing a desired result in the planning of an electric power system. This article determines the amount of energy involved in the different schemes being compared, and the money value of that energy. The fundamental principle is to determine for each scheme, as accurately as possible, the actual cost of the losses which will accrue during the life of the facility."
"THE NEED FOR accurate indicaton of hot spot temperatures under both steady-state and transient conditions is well known. This applies to rotating machines and cables as well as to transformers. The deficiences of the available hot spot indicators led to the development of the Hot Spot Rise Simulator. The goal was the production of a reliable instrument which could be tested and adjusted in the field by the relay engineer in the same way that he tests and adjusts an ordinary protective relay. Work was begun in 1946, and the first installations were made early in 1947 at two stations in the Niagara region of The Hydro-Electric Power Commission of Ontario. All major power transformers purchased by this authority since early 1950 are being equipped with these devices."
"Designers and users of synchronous motors will find in this article a proposed system for changing the starting performance of these motors through selection of the proper field circuit discharge resistance. A review of present starting control methods is given also."
"The AIEE Winter General Meeting to be held at the Hotel Statler in New York, N. Y., January 21–25, will feature a well-diversified program of technical and social activities. The technical program is one of the largest in the history of the Institute with all available meeting rooms in constant use. A group of inspection trips has also been arranged closely allied with the technical sessions and conferences."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The fourth conference on Electronic Instrumentation and Nucleonics in Medicine will be held January 7 and 8 in the Ballroom of the Hotel Commodore, New York, N. Y. Chief sponsoring committee is the newly formed Committee on Electrical Techniques in Medicine and Biology, an outgrowth of the earlier joint activities of the Committees on Nucleonics, Electronics, Instruments and Measurements, and Therapeutics."
"A regular meeting of the Board of Directors of the Institute was held in the Hotel Cleveland, Cleveland, Ohio, October 25, 1951, during the Fall General Meeting."
"Editor's Note: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N Y."
"Roy Martin Smith (A'35, M'46), chief engineer, Railway and Industrial Engineering Company, Greensburg, Pa., died on October 30, 1951. He was born on March 24, 1903, in Spokane, Wash., and was graduated from the University of Wisconsin in 1925 with a bachelor of science degree in electrical engineering. He was associated with the Westinghouse Electric Corporation from 1925 to 1941 where he was in charge of design and application of protective relays. In 1941 he became engineering manager of the Bryant Electric Company and a year later accepted the position of chief engineer of the Roller Smith Company. He joined the Railway and Industrial Engineering Company in 1945 as distribution engineer and was appointed chief engineer in 1950. He was an active member of the Institute, having served on the Protective Devices Committee (1936–45) and the Instruments and Measurements Committee (1942–44)."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of November 15, 1951, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections, signed by a member, must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"A robot machinist has been developed which will operate a machine tool from an engineer's office or other distant points, it was announced recently by Daco Machine that translates the tape message into electric impulses that actuate selsyn motors which, like the operator's hands, tell the machine what to do. Perforations in the tape and Tool Company, Brooklyn, N. Y. According to Daco engineers remote control possibilities are practically unlimited; it would be just as easy to have a robot located in Detroit, for example, operate, via teletype, machine tools which were located in Los Angeles or New Haven."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Underwater television may be used by the United States Navy to protect as well as aid human divers in their work, it was disclosed recently. Television cameras can explore undersea areas to help divers spot and prepare for dangerous situations. In addition, the cameras may be used to observe the work of divers, making possible shipboard co-ordination of underwater activities."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"This article deals with the interrelation of engineering with considerations of psychological and physiological behavior. This field, commonly referred to as “human engineering,” has attained significance with the increasing complexity of technical machinery."
"The high short-time stresses and discharges to which a series capacitor is exposed demand special design of the capacitor unit. The elements of such a design are reviewed, and two Swedish installations, one now in operation and the other under construction, are described."
"The continuing growth of system generating and distributing capacity has caused many power companies to consider carefully the noise level of new transformer installations, or possible increases in the noise level at established stations and substations."
"Jet-engine and rocket research facilities put some severe and unusual demands on the electric power supply system. The distribution system of the NACA's Lewis Flight Propulsion Laboratory, where several large wind tunnels and other heavy equipment must be supplied, is described in this article."
"If men will not clothe the bare framework of science with the warm garments of true humanism, they will end up by making machines their god and mathematics their only dogma. They will become as ruthless as the atoms which smash each other."
"The switching of capacitors differs from other switching by causing relatively large surge currents and possibly overvoltages. The performance of circuit breakers in this service has been found by recent experiments to depend on the power supply system as well as on the size of the capacitor banks. When circuit breakers open with no delayed restriking of the arc, they avoid the possibility of causing undesirably high current and voltage surges."
"The increasing need for a low-maintenance and relatively low-cost kilovolt-ampere demand meter has led to the design of a new type of thermal meter to accomplish this purpose. The complete unit includes a 2-element watt-hour meter as well as a thermal kilovolt-ampere demand meter in the same size base as a standard 3-element watt-hour meter, see Figure 1. Circuits for which the meter is available include: 3-phase, 3-wire; 3-wire network; 3-phase, 4-wire Y; and 3-phase, 4-wire delta."
"Observations indicate that wire tension is the most important cause of fatigue failure in overhead shield wires. These observations, and some of the remedial measures taken by one utility, are the subject of this article."
"Modern instrumentation requires the measurement of many variables that are expressed most readily as d-c voltages. In the apparatus described here, a reversing synchronous contactor is used to invert the error signal into an alternating potential of the power frequency. This alternating potential in turn is amplified and impressed upon the control winding of a 2-phase motor which has its reference winding continuously energized at the power frequency."
"A telephone system now under construction in Sweden is using this new common control crossbar system. It is particularly suitable for rural and semirural exchanges, as it can be used for all sizes of offices from 100 numbers up to large plants which are composed of a plurality of offices having 10,000 numbers each."
"Early studies and calculations1,2 concerning the bussing at 230 kv of the generators at the Grand Coulee Power Plant and the lines emanating therefrom indicated that the asymmetrical fault currents to be encountered as the Coulee installation grew would increase very rapidly and the development of ultrahigh interrupting-capacity circuit breakers, as well as means of limiting the fault current, were investigated thoroughly."
"Usually the most significant problem encountered by a reluctance-motor designer is to obtain a motor which will satisfy a prescribed pull-out torque and at the same time pull in a specified load torque and load inertia. He also is faced with the situation that different sizes of stator laminations which he would like to use are already available. With a maximum flux density in the stator teeth and maximum current density in the stator conductors, the designer then would want to obtain systematically for each available size of stator laminations the solution for the following quantities which would constitute the optimum synthesis of the reluctance motor: 1. the ratio of minimum to maximum equivalent air gap, which is actually a measure of the geometry of the machine; 2. the equivalent length of stack; 3. the rotor resistance which, together with the desired starting torque, would make the choice of the number, size, and shape of rotor bars possible; 4. the minimum equivalent air gap; and 5. the number of stator conductors."
"Deep-bar induction motors have rotor slots approximately one inch deep. Their excellent starting characteristics are due to skin effect. Since skin effect in copper at 60 cycles is approximately 0.4 inch, the copper losses and starting torque are as if the current were confined to a layer 0.4 inch deep. Thus, the rotor resistance of these motors is 2.5 or more times as great when starting as when running. These motors develop 150 per cent or more starting torque and are useful as a general purpose motor."
"Basic studies of the nature and method of detecting slot discharge phenomena in high-voltage stator windings show that the discharge is a result of loss of electric contact between conducting coil surfaces in the slot and the core. Several methods were studied for detecting and locating such discharges and the development of a slot discharge analyzer is described."
"A capacitor-reluctance motor is a miniature salient-pole synchronous machine with a squirrel-cage damper winding and unsymmetrical stator windings connected in unsymmetrical circuits. The basic theories applicable to such a piece of synchronous machinery, namely, the symmetrical components, the 2-reaction theory, and the cross-field theory, are well established in engineering literature, and the purpose of this article is to deduce from these theories a comprehensive representation of the capacitor-reluctance motor from which the motor characteristics — for example, the starting torque, synchronous pull-out torque, torque angle, efficiency, and so forth — can be calculated readily with useful accuracy."
"Using frequency sensitive equipment across all or part of the neutral impedance, this modified slot discharge detection method permits tests without shutting down the machine or using auxiliary high-voltage equipment. Tests on eight large water wheel generators indicate that the method is generally applicable if there is a current transformer or other impedance in the generator neutral."
"In analyzing vacuum-tube failures the principal troubles are: 1. seal breakage; 2. short-circuited grid cathode structure due to weak seals or warping of the high-temperature filament; 3. excessive filament temperature causing rapid evaporation of cathode material; 4. overheated anodes with heavy scale formation and premature failure due to anode puncture; 5. excessive grid dissipation resulting in grid distortion; and 6. gassiness due to momentary overload. Fortunately, most of these evils can be corrected easily. There is, however, no cure for excessive filament temperature except getting a tube with sufficient cathode emission so that it will be capable of the job for which it was designed."
"The usefulness and utility of the conventional power circle diagram can be expanded by translating the origin from the zero of power to the center of the circle. This operation makes all the circles concentric so that they can be printed beforehand on standard sheets of paper. Data for a particular problem then are plotted on the sheet as required. Because of the number of circles that are available immediately, the diagram also can be used for solving problems in which either the receiving- or sending-end voltage is a variable. Such solutions are aided by the plotting of auxiliary loci, which are either straight lines or circles, for constant loss, constant power, constant power factor, and so forth."
"The malfunctioning or failure of electron tubes in a computer is a large item in the over-all cost of its operation. Preventive maintenance testing of tubes before installation has proved to be economically feasible. Methods of testing and the findings are given in this article."
"For many years, the per-unit or per cent method has been used to define the constants of such equipment as generators, reactors, and transformers. However, the constants of transmission lines still are expressed in terms of ohmic impedances. This fact is not important for short lines where the line impedance is generally small in relation to terminal impedances. However, for long lines, the line constants are one of the principal factors which determine the steady-state and transient power limits of the system. Therefore, it is desirable to use a per-unit system for transmission-line constants which is based upon the power limits of the transmission line."
"Gas discharge tubes with movable cylindrical probes have been used to determine the cleanup which results from the bombardment of a tantalum surface by positive helium ions. Data agree closely with earlier work using wire probes, and it has been possible to recover between 70 and 85 per cent of the trapped gas."
"Utility tie feeders to large industrial customers sometimes present unusual relaying problems. The relaying on the 33-kv 60-cycle tie feeders between Riverside Substation of the Consolidated Gas Electric Light and Power Company of Baltimore (Md.) and the Sparrows Point Plant (Md.) of the Bethlehem Steel Company includes several unusual features."
"A voltage surge suppressor is described comprising selenium rectifier cells connected in series (in opposed relation) whereby the resulting resistance is high at low voltages and low at high voltages."
"This radical modification in salient-pole synchronous machine testing avoids the many serious mechanical and electrical difficulties of present methods of measuring subtransient and negative-sequence reactances. No special equipment is required, and test results have proved the method to be reliable."
"In modernizing older existing stations in connection with plant capacity addition programs, difficulties often are encountered in installing adequate generator outlet capacity for modern generators several times larger in rating than the older units being replaced. In some cases the use of forced-air cooling may be justified as a means of increasing cable capacity well beyond the self-cooled rating of the installation."
"Slip regulators have been applied successfully to blooming mills as early as 1913 where the heavy impact load peaks of the mill motors would result in excessive power surges. An installation of this type often consists of a wound-rotor induction motor driving a flywheel motor-generator set. The secondary of the motor is connected to a slip regulator which automatically increases its resistance in case of heavy load peaks, thereby permitting the set to slow down and give up part of its stored kinetic energy. In this manner it is possible to supply high momentary load peaks to the mill motors with a practically constant power demand from the a-c supply."
"Many types of a-c motors are used to drive oil well pumping units. The diversity of choice of motors suggests that the various types are equally desirable, but this is not the case. Experience and a more fundamental approach to the evaluation of motors for oil well pumping substantiate the conclusion that 5- to 8-per cent slip motors in a dripproof or protected frame should be purchased for installations where 3-phase power is available. Two-value capacitor-type motors in a dripproof or protected frame are preferred where single-phase power must be used."
"As the size of power systems and the capacity of interconnections continue to increase, the economic factors which affect the design of larger generating equipment and stations become more important. Such advantages as lower investment cost per kilowatt, higher efficiency, and lower operating costs are considered in this article."
"The distinguishing feature of the 3-phase oscilloscope is its deflection system which provides deflections along three axes separated 120 degrees in space. When sinusoidal 3-phase currents flow in such a deflection system a rotating flux field of constant magnitude and constant angular velocity is produced as in a 3-phase induction motor. The flux field intensity is proportional to the maximum instantaneous current and the rate of revolution is equal to the frequency. This rotating magnetic field causes the beam spot of the cathode-ray tube to describe a circle having a diameter proportional to the current magnitude."
"Through the use of a new design principle,1 first used in the a-c analyzer purchased by the University of Kansas and since improved, it has been possible to use reactors having a Q value (ratio of reactance to equivalent resistance) as low as 7.8 to simulate the reactance of transmission lines. Although these reactors have a low Q, their electrical characteristics are identical to those possessing a Q of 25 and used in nonphase-shift analyzers. Reactors having a Q of 9.3 may be used to simulate the reactance of generators which otherwise require a Q of 50."
"Another step in the progress of measurements has been made with the successful application of molded butyl compound as insulation on a new instrument transformer for indoor and outdoor use on secondary circuits. The investigations concerning the use of this compound for outdoor use are described in this article."
"After emphasizing the increasingly important role the electrical industry is playing in the production of defense equipment, the author points out the necessity for continued cooperation between the military and industry in developing proper standards."
"More than 900 engineers, scientists, and mathematicians attended the Joint AIEE-Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE) Computer Conference held in Philadelphia, December 10–12, 1951. This meeting afforded the first opportunity for manufacturers and users of large-scale digital computing equipment to exchange information on results obtained from completed machines. Ten computers were described in some detail, including two machines located in Great Britain."
"Amendments to the Constitution revising the membership grades of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers were adopted by a large majority last June. These changes affect all who then were members of the Institute as well as those subsequently applying for membership or transfer."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Editor's Note: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of December 20, 1951, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections, signed by a member, must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"The National Bureau of Standards (NBS) recently completed a new model antenna range to facilitate the measurement of antenna radiation patterns in the vertical plane. It is composed of an inverted V-type structure which supports a test or target transmitter more than 50 feet above a ground plane, in the center of which is placed the model antenna to be tested. The model techniques employed in this type of installation are being applied to an NBS investigation of the behavior of high-frequency antenna systems used in ionosphere-sounding equipment."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A new process whereby copper is bonded inseparably to steel was demonstrated recently in the metallurgical laboratory of the James H. Herron Company, Cleveland, Ohio. This process produces a bimetal in which the copper is bonded to the steel and may be the answer to the civilian need for the material of a thousand uses-copper."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"In this technological age when the engineering profession is so important, it is well to remember the “Statement of Principles of Professional Conduct.” It is the duty of engineers to interest themselves in the public welfare, apply their special knowledge for the benefit of mankind, uphold the honor and dignity of their profession, and avoid association with any enterprise of questionable character."
"We are preparing for an atomic-fission, supersonic, electronics age, and, as we turn out the weapons of 1952, we must study and plan ahead for the weapons of 1960 and '70. By so doing, the probability exists that we will not have to use those weapons."
"When magnetic amplifiers are connected in cascade, circuits must be provided to compensate for the effect of quiescent current in one stage on the following stage. Several circuits are discussed, with emphasis on one which combines the best features of each of the others."
"SELECTIVE OVERCURRENT trips applied directly to large air circuit-breakers have sensitivity and accuracy approaching that of a relay, coupled with the robust construction required to withstand the shock and vibration of circuit-breaker operation. These requirements presented problems which had to be solved before satisfactory service could be obtained."
"Growth is an outstanding characteristic of the electric utility industry. If it is to continue growing at the past rate of speed it must have more electrical engineers to work in all phases of the industry, but particularly in top management positions. Both the companies and members of the engineering profession have a responsibility in solving this problem."
"TWO BASIC TYPES OF carrier relaying systems are available today. These are the power-directional-comparison system and the phase-comparison system. With two distinct basic systems to select from, the relay engineer is confronted with the necessity of making a choice between them for any application where use of a carrier-pilot system is indicated. The purpose of this article is to discuss the relative advantages and limitations of each system and to point out certain considerations that have a bearing on the choice of a system for a specific application."
"The Edison Medal has been awarded this year to Charles F. Wagner, Consulting Engineer, Westinghouse Electric Corporation, for “distinguished contributions in the field of power system engineering.” The Medal, awarded annually by the Edison Medal Committee of the AIEE, is for meritorious achievement in electrical science or electrical engineering or the electrical arts."
"CONCERNING just ordinary people a young man once remarked, “Each man's life is very like his brother's And phase for phase, the like of countless others.”"
"THE PIONEERS OF the electrical industry were more foresighted than I believe they realized in establishing medals such as the Edison to be presented today. The occasion makes us pause in our fast-moving pace to inventory the most important factor in our industrial progress — men. The occasion causes us to consider and recognize those who have contributed the ideas and leadership that have made possible this great rate of progress. Today is a very pleasant milestone in the life of the man we are honoring. It is equally pleasant for me to have the honor of briefly sketching the accomplishments of our 1951 Edison Medalist, Dr. Charles Frederick Wagner: pleasant for me because I have watched at close range and admired the work of this man over a 30-year period. During that time he has contributed much."
"I APPRECIATE THE great honor that this Medal conveys, but am not unmindful that such accomplishments that I have made are due in no small measure to the character of the engineering minds to which I have been exposed in my daily work and in my Institute activities. I have been particularly fortunate in my associations at Westinghouse. My first position was directly under Dr. Chubb and my first assignment was for Dr. Slepian. Later I worked very closely with Dr. Fortescue and much of my writing was in collaboration with Mr. R. D. Evans. This is merely to mention a number of the outstanding minds."
"THE QUANTITATIVE UNDERSTANDING of the behavior of a human being functioning as an element of a closed-loop control system has become a matter of considerable importance in recent years. In addition to the purely military problems of high-speed flight, fire control, and similar tasks, there are many situations where a specific knowledge of human characteristics would make possible improvements in design and performance of the over-all system. The rapid development of the theory and practice of feedback control systems has given new impetus and interest to the study of the nature of human behavior in analogous situations."
"A 115-MEGAWATT 95-per-cent power-factor generator, having a short-circuit ratio of 0.66, has lost synchronism occasionally during faults in the 20 years it has been in service at the Waukegan Station of the Public Service Company of Northern Illinois. During faults the the generator terminal voltage became so low that the generator lost a large share of its load and the rotor accelerated, thus allowing the generator to swing out of synchronism. It was decided to investigate possibilities of using automatic voltage regulation to maintain generator voltage."
"Swedish engineers have used a series capacitor installation to increase the transmitting capability of a high-voltage transmission line. Their experiences with this installation and its design are described in detail."
"Two large series capacitor banks of the Bonneville Power Administration's transmission lines are described to point out some of the problems encountered with such installations. Particularly important is the protection against overvoltages caused by fault currents."
"The dispatching of taxicabs by radio has proved to be practical and economical but due to the shortage of radio-frequency channels assigned to this service by the FCC interference difficulties have been experienced. Solutions to this problem are offered by means of frequency and space allocations."
"USUALLY OVERLOADED instruments sustain either mechanical damage or thermal damage or both. The application of a sudden overload develops a torque which accelerates the moving parts of the instrument. Mechanical damage may occur during such acceleration or it may occur during subsequent deceleration when the stop is reached. A slight permanent deformation of one of the parts may spoil the accuracy of the calibration and therefore should be considered as mechnaical damage even if no parts are broken."
"A Work simplification program aids management in controlling efficiency of operation by stimulating employees to be alert for all possible improvements."
"IN AN A-C CIRCUIT containing a substantial amount of inductance in proportion to its resistance, the current which flows immediately after the circuit is closed may be asymmetrical. Asymmetry arises from the fact that the current through an inductance cannot change in zero time from zero to any substantial value as would be required in most cases if the current were to assume its steady-state value immediately after closure of the circuit."
"“What is an Invention” and “Who is the Inventor?” The author defines these terms and lists the requirements for a valid patent under our statutes."
"Carrier-current equipment has become an important adjunct to the operation of large power systems. This article describes some signaling and supervisory trunking systems and illustrates how they are applied to carrier-current transmission."
"RAILWAY POWER CONTRACTS should be based upon rate schedules and general provisions that harmonize the respective interests of the power supplier and user. Elimination of demand charges and the substitution of a straight energy charge supplemented with a minimum bill provision appears to offer the best prospect of reaching this goal. By this means railway managements would be freed from unnecessary restrictions to good operation, and at the same time utility companies would be assured of earning a return on the capital invested in railway power facilities commensurate with the risks involved and with the return from capital devoted to other industrial power services."
"TO INCREASE the specific ratings of turbine generators or to build units having larger ratings than are presently possible, a method has been devised for increasing the current-carrying capacity of rotor and stator coils."
"All the means of electrical communication are called into play when a city-wide coverage of an event is to be televised. How telephone and television facilities were utilized on the day that Chicago welcomed General MacArthur is explained in this article."
"The electric spark machining process is assuming industrial importance in the tool and die industry. A typical electric system for this process is described and a theory advanced for the mechanism of its operation together with results of experimental tests."
"SUPERCHARGED HYDROGEN COOLING of generators represents a forward step in the steady progress to reduce the size of frame and the amount of material needed to obtain a given rating. Figure 1 shows a 60,000-kw generator with a supercharged rotor, tested a year ago, which has been in service for some time. Its active core length is 60 per cent of that of a normal machine and power plant space is reduced correspondingly."
"Marshall Plan aid to Italy is helping that country to overcome an acute shortage of electric energy and to speed its recovery. Steam plants are being constructed to supplement the predominant hydroelectric facilities to avoid future shortages due to poor hydrological conditions."
"Both experimental and theoretical studies indicate that spreading resistance forms an important part of the resistance of contacts and that it can be controlled over wide limits by varying the number of parallel conducting spots."
"THE PURPOSE OF this article is to point out the important factors involved and describe a reasonably simple method of calculating the required characteristics of motor-driven exciters for turbine generators. Such calculations are required to insure that the performance of the motor-generator set exciter will be comparable to that of a directly connected exciter during system disturbances. Although the method can be applied to any type of auxiliary supply system, the material in this article applies specifically to the auxiliary system in the Elrama Station of the Duquesne Light Company, Pittsburgh, Pa. A schematic diagram of this station is shown in Figure 1."
"Automatic telephone systems require some means for counting the pulses of the dialed number. This article presents a logical review of some of the systems used with the object of leading to the ideal solution of the least possible number of relays and contacts operating in a clear registration code."
"THE POSSIBILITY THAT transmission-line circuit breakers may be subjected to as much as double normal line-to-ground voltage if opened during a system disturbance when sections on either side of the circuit breaker are out-of-phase has been recognized by manufacturers and operating personnel for a long time. However, only a few isolated cases of trouble have been traced to this exceptional circuit-breaker duty, and therefore it has not been felt justifiable in circuit-breaker specifications to insist on proved ability to handle double voltage interruptions. Experience indicates that many circuit breakers have struggled through out-of-phase operations by continuing to arc until separating parts of the system have swung sufficiently in phase again to permit interruption."
"Some elementary methods of obtaining metal-to-soil potential measurements are analyzed for the purpose of developing rugged yet sufficiently accurate field measuring equipment. These potentials often must be known for cathodic protection work."
"Beginning in July 1952, the Institute will inaugurate three new publications bimonthly on an annual subscription basis to take the place of the present AIEE Proceedings which will be discontinued. The plan for the new publications was approved by the Board of Directors at its meeting on January 24. The publications are tentatively titled as follows:"
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The AIEE South West District Meeting to be held at the Jefferson Hotel in St. Louis, Mo., April 15 through April 17, 1952, is designed to appeal to all electrical engineers regardless of their specialization. The broad and varied technical program will be augmented by a full social program and interesting inspection trips. The Institute's Board of Directors will hold its spring meeting in St. Louis on Thursday, April 17."
"Four technical sessions on the application of large pool tubes and equivalent devices to rectifiers are scheduled for the AIEE Conference on Electronic Converter Applications and Tubes, to be held May 19–20 at the William Penn Hotel in Pittsburgh, Pa. Two inspection trips are planned for the afternoon of May 19. One trip will be to the Edgar Thomson Works and the Homestead Works of the United States Steel Company. The second trip will be to the East Pittsburgh Works of the Westinghouse Electric Corporation to see ignitron rectifier manufacturing and testing."
"The 1952 AIEE Winter General Meeting, held in New York, N. Y., from January 21 through 25, with headquarters at the Hotel Statler, was the largest program in the history of the Institute, both as to the number of technical sessions held and the attendance. In 69 sessions 280 papers were given: 102 Transactions, 164 Conference, and 14 Advance-Copies-Only. There was a lecture demonstration on fluid mapper patterns Wednesday evening. Over 3,800 members and guests attended the meeting."
"Editor's Note: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 78, N. Y."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of January 17, 1952, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections, signed by a member, must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"Water power from the Andes Mountains, one of the greatest potentials in the world, is being turned into electricity by the government of Chile to develop new industries. The 23,000-foot-high snow-capped peaks provide water pressure that is converting Chile into a modern industrialized nation. Working at 10,000-foot altitudes an investment of $75,000,000 and 41/2 per cent of the country's hydroelectric potential."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Elevators so controlled electronically that greater service is available to meet heavy traffic demands have been installed in the new 32-story, air-conditioned Chrysler Building East, New York City, N. Y., which wasopened in November 1951."
"A 10-channel in-flight calibrator recently developed by the National Bureau of Standards (NBS) utilizes a unique system of cam-operated switches that eliminates many of the difficulties encountered in calibrators of comparable size and scope. Designed to identify telemetered information from a guided missile in flight, the device is compact and durable and particularly suited to telemetering applications in aircraft, missiles, or projectiles."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the copyright information for the journal content. May include reprint permission information."
"A digital computer has been developed for use in airborne control systems. This application presents many problems. The computer must be small, light weight, and very reliable. It receives its input signals from instruments in the rest of the system. These signals are of the “analogue” continuous type and must be converted into the discrete electric signals used in the computer. The problems of analogue-digital conversion are problems in the measurement of the physical quantities that define the state of the system and in the transformation of the results of these measurements into digital signals. The digital numbers representing the input quantities are processed by the computer which performs in real time the computations corresponding to the mathematical representation of the control problem. The results of these calculations are numbers representing the signals used to control the system. These output numbers are converted into the analogue type signals used in the control operations."
"The following investigation on flip-flop circuits was originally undertaken to determine if a reliable flip-flop circuit could be designed to operate from a low supply voltage using tubes that are presently available and in production. The reason for designing the circuit to operate from a low supply voltage is to reduce the required power consumption of such information storage devices to a minimum and to provide a low d-c level output. The low d-c level output voltages of the two stable states of the circuit and the low flip-flop power dissipation enables an entire computer to operate from one regulated power supply rather than the numerous regulated supplies required by most computers. The low power dissipation is also essential since the reliability of germanium diodes and other heat sensitive components is greatly increased as their operating temperature is decreased."
"In the two years since the first digital differential analyzer was put in operation, it has been the complexity of filling and operating such machines, rather than any difficulty in coding them for a problem, that has constituted the main impediment to convenience and efficiency in their use. In filling some hundred-odd binary digits, one at a time, for each integrator information, the possibility of error is great. For instance, let us look at the binary number"
"Many investigators have for several years been studying the use of rectangular loop magnetic cores as memory elements. It seems profitable at this time to examine, from a dimensional point of view, the various selection systems which have been developed, and to find the relations between their operating principles."
"In December 1951, at the joint AIEE/IRE Computer Conference held in Philadelphia, several papers were given which discussed the performance of a single UNIVAC SYSTEM∗ during its first eight months of operation. Although only eight months have passed since that performance summary was given, a much greater effective length of time has passed because three more UNIVAC SYSTEMS have been put into operation since then, and their records together with those of the first system constitute many more months of operation. This paper, therefore, forms an extension of the earlier paper in which we have the good fortune of being able to confirm a number of the predictions and estimates mentioned in the earlier work."
"This paper presents a qualitative discussion of present manual cruise control techniques and a proposed automatic cruise control system for long range military aircraft. A mechanization of the cruise control computer and its operation are described, and a comparison of the automatic system operation with current manual techniques is presented. Although the application of the cruise control computer to long range military aircraft in particular is discussed, the principles in general would apply to long range commercial aircraft as well."
"Many people engaged in the development of precision analog computing equipment have concluded that the two most useful computing circuit elements are a stabilized d-c amplifier and a high-speed precision switch. The first requirement is met by a circuit disclosed by Goldberg.1 A method of stabilizing a large number of d-c amplifiers with a single pulse amplifier was first reported by Ingerson.2"
"The numerous economic uses of magnetic recording today bear witness to the scope and quality of the development in recent years on the media, transducers, kinematics, circuits, and systems involved."
"Ultrasonic vibrations provide the only known physical means for the non-destructive examination of thick sections of dense materials. The basic method is simple; the equipment is relatively inexpensive, and there is no hazard to operating personnel. Ultrasonics will not completely supplant the older, established techniques of radiographic, magnetic, or dye inspection methods, but it will do inspection jobs which cannot be done by any of these methods. The most commonly used ultrasonic inspection method at the present time is the “contact” method, where the transducer is pressed directly against the surface of the part to be inspected. This is not a method readily adapted to mechanized scanners. The mechanized scanner proceeds in an orderly manner, and avoids the repetitive scanning generally required by the manual method to assure complete coverage."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"In setting up test procedures for radiation counter tubes, it is necessary to consider not only the test circuits but also the physical arrangements of test, such as nature of source, distance between source and counter, scattering by objects near the source or counter, shielding of the counter against unwanted radiations, and the background due to cosmic rays and general contamination. The relative importance of these various factors will depend on the type of counter under test"
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"As part of the investigation of electron tube reliability, it is well to examine other products for which there is no reliability problem so that we may determine the nature of the various factors involved. One such product is a steel beam. We never talk about reliable steel beams and there must be a good reason for this. Is it not that the requirements on steel beams are well known, and that engineers use them well within their capabilities by making use of well-defined safety factors?"
"The subject of this paper concerns the possibilities of obtaining increased reliable vacuum tube performance by observing certain principles of dc feedback in connection with the application of these vacuum tubes."
"Confucius is quoted as saying, “I claim to be no wiser than other men but I have read history and use that knowledge to great advantage.” From a few historical facts with which I am familiar, I propose to discuss some obvious problems with military electronic equipment."
"On the basis of previous experience, every 100 million dollars worth of electronic equipment procured by the military requires at least 1 billion dollars worth of maintenance before it wears out. This makes reliability the most important aspect of electronics. Unfortunately, however, reliability is like a billion dollars in being rather difficult to visualize."
"We are all familiar with the old adage, “Money is the root of all evil”. However, in the face of modern military requirements, it might well be changed to say, “Speed, with its attendant accelerations, is the root of our difficulties."
"The subject of reliability has been receiving increased attention from electronic engineers recently, and a number of highly beneficial symposia have been conducted. The difficult problem of combining electronic complexity with high reliability unfortunately has been avoided for the greater part of its history by the electronics profession. Today, however, many tasks capable of solution only by complex electronics face us, and the reliability problem is coming closer to the top of our priority list. The application of electronics to guided missiles has been one of the earlier tasks that has supported significant effort for improved reliability. Since 1945 the author has been indulging himself with various attempts at reliable electronic equipment for missile application, and it is believed that a number of factors and considerations uncovered during this period can be classified as “Application Engineering for Improved Reliability”, and offered to the profession for whatever benefit may result. Obviously, within the confines of a single paper, there is little room for just a bit of philosophy, perhaps an anecdote, those unavoidable personal prejudices, and far too little of the detailed treatment that the subject deserves. If this paper serves to stimulate its audience to serious thought, or to debate, or to calling attention to its omissions and oversights, then its purpose will have been served."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"A dynamic high speed jet aircraft simulator is described. This simulator is intended for use in psychological experiments designed to determine the transfer characteristics of a pilot under simulated flying conditions. A two gun scope in the cockpit presents an indication of the roll and bank angles of the aircraft and the position of a target. The target can be made to follow any prescribed course by means of an electronic function generator, or to move in a random way by a filtered white noise source. Potentiometers geared to the stick and rudder feed voltages into an analog computer which solves the equations of motion of the aircraft and the components of target lead angle. The computer employs negative feedback d-c amplifiers and servo-multiplier techniques."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Progress in coordinating the design of airborne radar equipment with the airframe is discussed, emphasizing such basic design characteristics as accessibility, form factor, heat dissipation, altitude, shock, vibration. R-F noise and primary power supply. A review of the scope of present-day installation problems follows, giving specific examples of coordinated design. Suggestions for improving current design practices include an early exchange of information among all agencies concerned, close liaison as the design unfolds, and throughout, an appreciative understanding of each others problems."
"Reviewing known factors, this discussion shows airplane environment unique only in the magnitude and rate of change of environment transitions. This effect increases with aircraft performance, intensifying undesirable environment effects. Some basic design approaches are given to minimize both transition and steady-state airframe environment effects, and the environment transition is presented as a useful design tool."
"The following factors are considered most important in the design of component parts for aircraft use: RELIABILITY — This means dependability, freedom from failure under required service and operating conditions. These environmental conditions cover extreme temperature ranges from −65°C to +200°C, altitudes to 70,000 feet, shocks to 50G at 2 milliseconds."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Environmental tests for Vibration Endurance specify testing at constant acceleration or constant displacement amplitude over certain frequency ranges, Cycling over an appreciable frequency range must provide compensation for impedance changes at the input of an electro-dynamic type shaker. These impedance changes are diagrammed and discussed, and the influence of the mechanical load examined. The desirability of such an arbitrary specification is examined in the light of possibly unforeseen effects on the object under test."
"Electro-dynamic shakers are generators of mechanical vibratory force used in testing the characteristics of structures or the endurance of components subjected to vibratory excitation."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"The problem of intermodulation is not new. With the increasing use of uhf and vhf and the attendant close channel spacings, it is merely emphasized. Despite the fact that it is a very old problem, a casual review of the old reliables in the handbook and textbook fields shows that a few of the backs mention the word “intermodulation” none give it any attention. In fact, one would gather the impression that the subject is unimportant. The purpose of this paper is to review the subject of intermodulation, with particular emphasis on the elements of the problem at ultra high frequencies. In the presentation, I am sure, you will find nothing new. The purpose of the talk is merely to describe some of the methods which can be employed to reduce intermodulation, and their advantages and disadvantages. As you doubtless knew, intermodulation is not a serious problem at low and medium frequencies because adequate protection in the way of receiver pre-selection can be achieved. Likewise, I am sure, you have experienced cases of external intermodulation where spurious signals are produced by rectification which occurs at poor or corroded junctions in current carrying systems of wires, steel structures, and the like, which are located near the receiving antenna. At vhf and uhf, external cross modulation, while it is occasionally observed, is not the principal offender. The principal offender is the receiver itself. Why then, you may ask, isn't something done about it? It can be safely stated that much has been done, but we can also add that there is much that remains to be done if the maximum use of the closely spaced vhf and uhf channels is to be obtained."
"A new microwave circuit element dependent on the Faraday rotation of a polarized wave has been developed. The element violates the reciprocity theorem and, because it shares this property with a gyroscope and because it is dependent on gyromagnetic resonance absorption, it has been termed a microwave gyrator. It is a low-loss broadband device with many applications. Among these are one-way transmission systems, microwave circulators, microwave switches, electrically controlled variable attenuators and modulators."
"This paper considers the behavior of customers waiting to dial calls, when dial tone is delayed. Tests were made in a panel dial central office, from which were determined: relationship between load carried by a group of line finders and the resultant dial tone delay; measures, by classes of service, of the magnitude of the generalized trunking formula's “j” factor describing the degree to which customers wait when dial tone is delayed; comparisons of observed and theoretical distributions of the number of simultaneous calls on line finder groups; and statistical accounts of the actions of customers when dial tone is delayed."
"The results of an extended survey of microwave propagation over two line-of-sight paths in New Jersey are described. Angle-of-arrival measurements at 1.25-cm wavelength and selective fading observations in a 450-mc frequency band centered at 3950-mc show that the severe fading can be explained in terms of multiple-path transmission. A computer of the analogue type was built to simulate the more complicated selective fading patterns."
"Microwave pulses with a duration of about 0.003 microseconds were transmitted over a 22-mile path from Murray Hill, N. J., to Holmdel, N. J., in order to determine the effects of the transmission medium upon such pulses. During “fading” periods multi-path transmission effects with path differences as great as 7 feet were observed, as well as some other effects. A microwave frequency of 4000 megacycles was employed."
"This paper deals with a new and very interesting technique by which the properties of silicon surfaces are altered very materially by bombardment with ions of such gases us hydrogen, helium, nitrogen and argon. The change in rectifying properties has been of special interest but there have been considered also changes in the structural features of the material itself. The effects of bombardment on the rectifying properties are illustrated by a series of characteristic curves systematically arranged to bring out the effects of the several variables of experiment such, for example, as ion velocity, intensity of bombarding current, length of time of bombardment, kind of gas, and the temperature of the specimen during bombardment. The effect of bombardment on materials contaminated with impurities is also illustrated. If is of particular practical importance that silicon contaminated with boron to the point where it shows relatively little rectification can be modified by bombardment to make it even better than most unbombarded materials."
"Since the mechanical properties of solid polymer materials are largely dependent on the motions that segments of the polymer chains can undergo, to understand these properties one must use measuring techniques which can determine these motions. One of the most promising methods is to measure the reaction of polymer materials to longitudinal and shear waves over a frequency spectrum wide enough to determine the relaxation frequencies due to thermal motions of the principle elements of the chain. The presence of relaxations is indicated by a dispersion in the velocity and attenuation constants of the material, or a dispersion in the characteristic impedance of the material if the attenuation is too high to allow velocity measurements. A number of different types of measuring methods are described in this paper which make possible propagation and impedance measurements not only in solid polymers, but also in liquid polymers and in solutions of polymer molecules in typical solvents. When these techniques are applied to long chain polymers in dilute solutions, the three relaxations observed correspond to motions occurring in isolated molecules since as the dilution increases, the molecules seldom touch. The lowest relaxation corresponds to a configurational relaxation of the molecule as a whole, the highest relaxation corresponds to the twisting of the, shortest segment — containing about 40 repeating units — while the intermediate relaxation corresponds to a transient entanglement of chain segments. All three types of relaxations are present in pure polymer liquids but are spread. out over a frequency range due to the perturbing effect of near neighbors of adjacent chains. The high frequency shortest chain relaxation can be traced in solid polymers of the linear chain type such as polyethylene and nylon and produces rubber-like response to mechanical shocks of very short duration."
"Rebound of mechanical structures subsequent to impinging on stops generally has deleterious effects on their performance and should, therefore, be minimized. A considerable reduction in rebound can often be obtained by introducing additional degrees of freedom to the structure. A mathematical treatise of the dynamics of rebound motion of systems representing idealized relay armatures is presented. Normalized differential equations of motion and their solutions for the “free” and “impact” intervals are derived for systems having one, two, and three degrees of freedom, allowing the rebound behavior of a specific system to be calculated. The equations of series of rebounds, and possible combinations of such series are considered next for systems having one and two degrees of freedom. The field of possible rebound maxima is mapped for a practical range of mass distribution constants, coefficients of restitution, and force ratios. A sufficiently broad optimum design region is indicated. The results of this analysis have been checked closely on a model and have led to appreciable reduction of armature rebound in relay designs."
"Low terminal costs and single-cable operation make this the first economically practical carrier system for medium-haul telephone circuits. Performance is not sacrificed for economy."
"Charles Clos, C.E., New York University, 1927; New York Telephone Company, plant extension engineering, valuation and depreciation matters, intercompany settlements and tandem and toll fundamental plans, 1927–47. Pratt Institute, Evening School, Mathematics Instructor, 1946–49. Bell Telephone Laboratories, studies on development planning for local and toll switching systems and research in switching probability, 1947–. Member of A.I.E.E., New York Electrical Society, Mathematical Association of America, A.A.A.S., American Statistical Association, Iota Alpha, and Tau Beta Pi."
"A plan for automatic long distance switching, which will ultimately embrace the entire area of the United States and extend into Canada and perhaps Mexico, has been formulated and important steps have been taken toward its realization. The plan contemplates that when a telephone customer places a call with a long distance operator, this operator will be able to establish a connection to any desired telephone simply by playing a 10 or 11 digit code into an automatic mechanism. She will receive distinctive signals when the called telephone answers or when the telephone or the toll circuits are busy. She will completely control the establishment of the connection and will have available to her the information necessary for proper billing of the call. The plan also contemplates that telephone customers will ultimately be able to dial long distance calls themselves, wherever may be the locations of the calling and called telephones."
"This paper covers the general switching plan and fundamental plant layout proposed for handling telephone toll messages throughout the United States and Canada using automatic toll switching. There has been rapid growth in the number of telephones and in the volume of toll traffic, particularly long haul. Toll facilities are provided under fundamental plans, an essential part of which is a toll switching plan for setting up connections quickly between any two telephones. The introduction of mechanical operation and the general improvement in the transmission performance of the communication plant over a period of years make the introduction of certain modifications in the fundamental plans possible and advantageous at this time. The important new features and the service improvements which are provided by the proposed plans are outlined in this paper. The principal types and characteristics of circuit facilities available for use in the intertoll network are also described."
"In telephone language a numbering plan gives each telephone in a city, a town, or a geographical area an identity or designation different from that given any other telephone in the same area. There is a wide variation in the types of numbering arrangements in use today in the Bell System, and this paper gives the reasons for this diversity, and examples of the various numbering plans now in use. With the introduction of modern toll switching facilities and the extension of toll dialing to nationwide scope, it was realized that an improvement in the method of dialing toll calls to distant cities was essential in order to realize the maximum speed and accuracy inherent in toll dialing. A nationwide numbering plan covering the United States and Canada has been designed. Each of the more than 20,000 central offices in the two countries are to be given a distinctive designation which identifies that particular office. This designation is to consist of a regional or area code and a central office code The new switching equipment for the key points in the toll network is being designed so that any toll operator, wherever located, will use the same designation or code for reaching a given office. The combination involved in laying out these areas and the composition of the area codes are presented. A total of 152 codes are available of which approximately 90 are assigned to the present numbering plan areas. Ultimately each central office will he given a type of number consisting of an office name and five numerical digits, such as LOcust 4–5678, in which the first two letters of the office name become the two letters of the central office code. The entire program will take a considerable number of years to realize, but is one which must be accomplished in order to achieve the best results in operator toll dialing and the ultimate goal of nationwide customer toll dialing."
"A new automatic toll switching system has been developed by the Bell Telephone Laboratories for use at the most important switching centers for implementing the nationwide dialing program. The job of performing the switching functions at such points is the most comprehensive ever performed by any system, requiring a high order of mechanical intelligence. The new switching system uses crossbar switches for the talking connections and fully exploits the common control principle whereby the equipment used for directing the establishment of connections through the switches is provided in pools common to the office and is used with high efficiency. To perform the complicated, translating functions a new device called the card translator has been developed. It uses punched metal cards and an optical system with phototransistors. Routing changes are made by insertion of previously prepared cards in the machine. The switching system was designed with the objective of handling long distance traffic dialed by customers as well as that dialed by operators."
"A mathematical analysis is given of the low-loss, broad-band, laminated transmission lines proposed by A. M. Clogston, including both idealized parallel-plane lines and coaxial cables. Part I deals with “Clogston 1” lines, which have laminated conductors with a dielectric, chosen to provide the proper phase velocity for waves on the line, filling the space between the conductors. Part II will treat lines having an arbitrary fraction of their total volume filled with laminations and the rest with dielectric, and will be concerned in particular with “Clogston 2” lines, in which the entire propagation space is occupied by laminated material. The electromagnetic problem is first formulated in general terms, and then specialized to yield detailed results. The major theoretical questions treated include the determination of the propagation constants and the fields of the principal mode and the higher modes in laminated transmission lines, the choice of optimum proportions for these lines, the calculation of the frequency dependence of attenuation due to the finite thickness of the laminae, the increase in loss caused by improper phase velocity (dielectric mismatch) in Clogston 1 lines and by nonuniformity of the laminated material in Clogston 2 lines, and the effects of dielectric and magnetic dissipation."
"Transistors, diodes, and single crystal filaments of germanium have common noise properties: a spectrum varying inversely with frequency, and strong dependence on the biasing current. Theoretical attempts to explain this noise are reviewed briefly. Experiments with single crystal filaments indicate that the noise resides in the behavior of the minority carrier. In one type of experiment, the correlation of noise voltages in adjacent portions of a filament is quantitatively related to the lifetime and transit time of minority carrier. In another, the effect of a magnetic field on the noise is found in accord with calculated changes in lifetime of the minority carrier."
"Relays are produced by a large number of manufacturers in this country. When we survey their product, we find that there are many kinds and varieties. They differ widely as to their size, shapes and configurations. Many of these differences are dictated by the requirements of the task they must perform and by the environments under which they must work. Other differences are brought about from considerations of cost and by the design and fabrication techniques the particular manufacturer employs. However, all relays have a common objective. For whatever use they are employed, it is highly desirable that they be reliable. They are expected to function each time they are called upon without failure and over the expected life of the equipments in which they are used. This paper deals with the more important design factors which all relays have in common that greatly influence their reliability of performance. Contact spring pile-tip stability and the importance of strength of screws, insulating materials with low cold flow and moisture absorption, and manufacturing procedures and controls to achieve this end are discussed. Coil construction so as to minimize the occurrence of open windings due to corrosion of the wire and breakage of the lead-out wires is dwelt upon. Contact reliability and how it is affected by the material used, its size and shape, the method of actuation, the presence of contaminating vapors, and single versus twin contacts are discussed. The degree by which magnetic materials change their magnetic properties with age and treatments for alienating this effect are described. The importance of adequate structural design so that the relay will be rugged and remain stable so that its performance is substantially unaffected by wear, shock and vibration is stressed. Methods of test to determine how well the relay meets these objectives are described."
"This paper reviews ac bridges developed for use in the Bell System for the measurement of impedance parameters, particularly at frequencies in the megacycle range. Three recent bridges designed for measuring networks and components for coaxial systems are described."
"This paper describes a full automatic teletypewriter message switching system for use in private-line networks involving one or more switching centers and a multiplicity of local or long-distance lines, each of which may have one or more stations. This system provides fast teletypewriter communication from any station to any other station or group of stations in the network. At its point of origin a message first is perforated in tape accompanied by suitable directing and end-of-message characters, thereafter it is transmitted automatically, stored temporarily in perforated tape at a switching office, and then routed at high speed to its point or points of destination. Important features are the arrangements provided to permit efficient use of long full duplex transmission lines, the full automatic handling of multiple-address messages with only a single originating transmission, and the various guards and alarms which are provided to protect against loss of messages in case of trouble."
"A. B. Clark, B.E.E., University of Michigan, 1911. A. T. & T. Co., 1911–34; Bell Telephone Laboratories, 1934–. Toll Transmission Development Engineer, 1929; Toll Transmission Development Director, 1934; Director of Transmission Development, 1935; Director of Systems Development, 1940; Vice President, 1944. Bell System Chairman of Joint Subcommittee on Development and Research of the Edison Electric Institute and Bell System since 1938. Since June, 1951, Mr. Clark has been in charge of coordinating all Bell System programs at the Laboratories. During World War II he served both as a consultant to and a member of various divisions of the Office of Scientific Research and Development. In 1944 he was appointed Consultant to the Secretary of War, and in connection with this work made trips to the European and Mediterranean theaters of operation. Member of I.R.E., Tau Beta Pi, Sigma Xi, and A.A.A.S. and Fellow of A.I.E.E. and the Acoustical Society of America."
"Thirty years ago this month The Bell System Technical Journal began publication. Suggested by Dr. George A. Campbell, it had been under discussion for some years. Dr. R. W. King, who had been one of its most active advocates, became its editor when the staff of the Journal was established. Except for a six-year period following 1928, while he was in England, Dr. King continued as editor until he retired in 1949."
"A general method is developed for finding functions of frequency which approximate assigned gain or phase characteristics, within the special class of functions which can he realized exactly as the gain or phase of finite networks of linear lumped elements. The method is based upon manipulations of two Tchebycheff polynomial series, one of which represents the assigned characteristic, and the other the approximating network function, The wide range of applicability is illustrated with a number of examples."
"A compact frequency-shift carrier telegraph system is described which provides channels in the voice range and above the voice. The channel terminal unit incorporates arrangements for handling TWX supervisory signals and employs no electro-magnetic relays."
"While the sight of an open-wire toll line is a rarity in many parts of the East, considerable use is made of open-wire facilities in other sections of the country to provide toll and exchange service. At the present time there are about 170,000-route-miles of open-wire in the Bell System which carry some 1,400,000 pair-miles of wire used for toll service. It is estimated that about 60 per cent of this pair-mileage is used for carrier, although only about 10 per cent carries the full fifteen carrier channels, which is possible by employing type-C and type-J carrier systems. It is obvious that some of the remaining line pairs are available for additional carrier growth, provided, of course, the demand for additional circuits exists, and there are carrier systems which can meet these demands economically. Type O is a multi-channel, open-wire carrier system which has been designed to provide, economically, additional circuits in the range from a minimum of about 15 up to a maximum of 150 miles, or more. The type-O system is the open-wire counterpart of the type N short-haul cable system."
"This paper reviews briefly a few of the simpler aspects of communication theory, especially those parts which relate, to the information rate of and channel capacity required for sampled, quantized messages. Two methods are then discussed, whereby such messages can be converted to a “reduced” form in which the successive samples are more nearly independent and for which the simple amplitude distribution is more peaked than in the original message. This reduced signal can then be encoded into binary digits with good efficiency using a Shannon-Fano code on a symbol-by-symbol (or pair-by-pair) basis. The usual inefficiency which results from ignoring the correlation between message segments is lessened because this correlation is less in the reduced message."
"Measurements have been made of some basic statistical quantities characterizing picture signals. These include various amplitude distributions, autocorrelation, and correlation among successive frames. The methods of measurement are described, and the results are used to estimate the amount by which the channel capacity required for television transmission may be reduced through exploitation of the statistics measured."
"The correlation present in a signal makes possible the prediction of the future of the signal in terms of the past and present. If the method used for prediction makes full use of the entire pertinent past, then the error signal — the difference between the actual and the predicted signal — will be a completely random wave of lower power than the original signal but containing all the information of the original. One method of prediction, which docs not make full use of the past, but which is nevertheless remarkably effective with certain signals and also appealing because of its relative simplicity, is linear prediction. Here the prediction for the next signal sample is simply the sum of previous signal samples each multiplied by an appropriate weighting factor. The best values for the weighting coefficients depend upon the statistics of the signal, but once they have been determined the prediction may be done with relatively simple apparatus. This paper describes the apparatus used for some experiments on linear prediction of television signals, and describes the results obtained to date."
"In this paper Maxwell's partial differential equations and the boundary conditions for waveguides filled with a heterogeneous and non-isotropic medium are converted into an infinite system of ordinary differential equations. This system represents a generalization of “telegraphist's equations” for a single mode transmission to the case of multiple mode transmission. A similar set of equations is obtained for spherical waves. Although such generalized telegraphist's equations are very complicated, it is very likely that useful results can be obtained, by an appropriate modal analysis."
"In the course of investigation of the rectifying properties of silicon very interesting photoelectric properties were found. The first photo-cells were cut from hulk silicon in which a natural potential barrier was found. A typical spectral characteristic of such a cell is shown. This early work was followed by the discovery of the ionic bombardment method of producing photo active silicon surfaces. The effects of the temperature of the target and of the energy of the bombarding particles in the photoelectric properties is illustrated by characteristic curves. Relative equi-energy spectral response characteristics as a function of wavelength are illustrated. The photon efficiency as a function of wavelength of a typical cell is shown."
"Sidney Darlington, B.S., Harvard University, 1928; B.S. in E.E., Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1929; Ph.D., Columbia University, 1940. Bell Telephone Laboratories, 1929–. Dr. Darlington has been engaged in research in applied mathematics with emphasis on network theory."
"This paper offers a general approach to the realizability theory of networks with many accessible terminals. The methods developed are applied to give a complete characterization of all finite passive networks."
"This paper discusses the application of switching (Boolean) algebra to the development of an all-relay dial pulse counting and translating circuit employing the minimum number of relays. An attempt is made to outline what appears to be the most promising method of obtaining beneficial results from the use of the algebra, in the design of practical switching circuits."
"New techniques of Mason, McSkimin, Hopkins and co-workers for generation of shear waves over the frequency range 2 × 102 to 2.4 × 107 cps have been used to study mechanical properties of chain polymers. Polymer solids, melts and dilute solutions, representing the main states in which plastics and rubbers are fabricated or used, were explored to find the characteristic relaxation times, rigidities and viscosities of various chemical structures. Polyisobutylene, hevea rubber, polydimethyl siloxane, vinyl chloride-acetate copolymers and plasticized nitrocellulose were compared with polyethylene and polyamides as examples of the range of solid properties encountered. As melts, several polyisobutylenes, polybutadiene, polypropylene, polypropylene sebacate and poly-α-methyl styrene were investigated as models for varying degrees of chain substitution. Chain rigidity in, for instance, polyisobutylene, seemed to reflect visco-elastic owr-all configurational changes up through the kilocycle range, but nearest neighbor interactions took over in the megacycle region, leading to moduli of 109 dynes/cm2 even for syrupy fluids. In dilute solution, polyisobutylene, polystyrene, natural rubber and polybutadiene microgel exhibited characteristic dynamic viscosities and rigidities depending linearly on concentration. Presumably, this reflects mechanical properties of isolated chains. Some possible models were suggested for the frequency dependence of such properties."
"The switch count method of telephone traffic measurement is subject to sampling errors. The nature of these errors is discussed and formulas are derived which describe the extent of the errors under normally encountered traffic conditions."
"The purpose of the paper is to show that the admittance or impedance of certain continuous structures, such as, for example, a finite length of transmission line of any sort, or resonant cavity, can be represented exactly at all frequencies by a network comprising lumps of constant resistance R, inductance L, conductance G and capacitance C. The network will contain an infinite number of branches, in general, although a finite number may be used if it is desired to represent only certain modes. The procedure is based upon a proposition known to students of function theory as “Mittag-Leffler's theorem,” which amounts, roughly, to an extension of rational functions to apply to transcendental functions of the type encountered in the theory of continuous structures. Several illustrative examples of the network synthesis are given."
"Modification of familiar Smith chart consolidates on one time-saving plot all positive-value solutions to the two general equations for series, shunt, and bridged-T audio equalizers."
"W. O. Baker, B.S., Washington College, Maryland, 1935; Ph.D., Princeton University, 1938; Bell Telephone Laboratories, 1939–. Dr. Baker has carried on investigations of the molecular structure and physical properties of polymers, particularly the fundamental constitution of synthetic rubbers and plastics. Harvard Fellowship, 1936–37 and Proctor Fellowship, 1938–39. Member of American Chemical Society, American Physical Society, and American Society for Testing Materials."
"The invention of the transistor provided a simple, apparently rugged device that could amplify — an ability in which the vacuum tube had long held a monopoly. As with most new electron devices, however, a number of extremely practical limitations had to be overcome before the transistor could be regarded as a practical circuit element. In particular: the reproducibility of units was poor — units intended to be alike were not interchangeable in circuits; the reliability was poor — in an uncomfortably large fraction of units made, the characteristics changed suddenly and inexplicably; and the “designability” was poor — it was difficult to make devices to the wide range of desirable characteristics needed in modern communications functions. This paper describes the progress that has been made in reducing these limitations and extending the range of performance and usefulness of transistors in communications systems. The conclusion is drawn that for some system functions, particularly those requiring extreme miniaturization in space and power as well as reliability with respect to life and ruggedness, transistors promise important advantages."
"An automatic telephone switching system, built as a laboratory experiment, is described in which electronic techniques, high speed relays and a subscriber telephone with a preset dialing mechanism were employed. One-at-a-time operation within the office was made possible by these fast tools; that is, only a single control circuit was provided for each function. This experimental system, although not commercially economical, showed that an advantageous reduction in the number of control and connector circuits is made possible by this method of operation."
"One of the main problems in obtaining long life in telephone switching equipment is the wear caused by large momentary forces. In order to investigate this problem several new techniques have been devised for measuring normal and tangential forces and for producing and controlling normal and tangential motions for wear studies. The forces are measured by inserting small barium titanate ceramics between the points of application of the forces and observing the voltages generated on a cathode ray oscillograph. Barium titanate ceramic is about fifty times as sensitive as quartz and has a high enough dielectric constant so that with conventional amplifiers time intervals as long as a tenth second can be measured. Both normal and tangential forces can be measured by using properly poled ceramics. By using weights on top of the crystals, normal and tangential accelerations can be measured. With these ceramics, forces have been measured for relays and for frictional sliding of a wire over a plastic. By employing a barium titanate transducer capable of a large amplitude at 18,000 cycles it has been shown that no wear occurs for normal forces, and that all the wear observed in a relay is due to tangential sliding. Quantitative measurements of wear have been made for a variety of materials, and it has been shown that materials with a large elastic strain limit will wear better than materials with a small elastic strain limit even though the latter have a higher yield stress; materials such as plastics and rubber will outwear materials such as metals or glasses. As the length of slide is reduced there is a threshold of motion for which there is no gross slide and very little wear. This region is determined by the condition that the tangential force is smaller than the normal force times the coefficient of friction. Theoretical and experimental results are obtained for this region and an equation is derived which determines the possible displacement without gross slide. The stress strain curve occurs in the"
"Two channels are considered; a discrete channel which can transmit sequences of binary digits, and a continuous channel which can transmit band limited signals. The performance of a large number of simple signalling alphabets is computed and it is concluded that one cannot signal at rates near the channel capacity without using very complicated, alphabets."
"Equations are developed for rigorous determination of magnitudes and directions of principal strains in plastic deformation, by means of measurements of rectangular strain rosettes. Application to the study of telephone cable sheath is described."
"A magnetic recording medium composed of rubber impregnated with magnetic oxide and lubricant is particularly suited to applications requiring the continuous repetition of short transcribed messages. It affords exceptional life, reliability, and economy in telephone applications, where it is utilized in the form of molded bands stretched over cylinders of the recording mechanisms."
"This part of the paper exhibits a network to realize a given positive real impedance matrix."
"To account for the non-uniformities in the electrical properties of diamond, particularly those observed in bombardment conduction, the proposal is made that the well-known lattice imperfections are not distributed homogeneously in the physical crystal, and that the resulting fluctuations in the height of the energy bands relative to the Fermi level might produce interspersed “pools of mobile charge” separated by barriers within the diamond. These pools and barriers should lead to dielectric losses at high frequencies. A single conducting channel, in series with a barrier, could be represented by a series resistance Rs, and capacity Cs, or by the equivalent parallel resistance Rp and capacity Cp."
"E. N. Gilbert, B.S., Queens College, 1943; Ph.D., Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1948. M.I.T. Radiation Laboratory, 1944–46. Bell Telephone Laboratories, 1948–. Dr. Gilbert's first assignment was in a group studying information theory, and in 1949 he joined a group concerned with switching theory. Member of the American Mathematical Society."
"This paper describes a new general purpose electromagnetic relay for use in telephone switching systems. It is a wire spring relay known as the AF type relay and, with variations which provide slow release or marginal characteristics, it is known as the AG and AJ relay, respectively. Fig. 1 shows a typical AF type relay, Fig. 2 shows all of the parts of the relay and Fig. 3 is a drawing showing the relay assembly."
"Based on a series of experiments, a comparison is made of the transmission performance of 150, 450, 900, and 3700 mc in a mobile radiotelephone type of service. This comparison indicates that 450 mc is superior transmission-wise to the presently used 150-mc band in urban and suburban areas. In fact a broad optimum in performance falls in the neighborhood of 500 mc It is concluded that this range of frequencies would be well suited for providing coverage to meet the large scale needs which are anticipated in and around metropolitan areas. Although higher frequencies are less desirable, the tests indicate that 900 mc is somewhat to be favored over 150 mc from a transmission standpoint if full use is made of the possible antenna gain. Above this frequency, transmission performance falls off even assuming the maximum practical antenna gain. Transmission at 3700 mc suffers an additional impairment in that the fluctuations in received carrier level occur at an audible rate as the mobile unit moves at normal speeds. It is concluded that while transmission above roughly 1000 mc for these services is not impossible, it would be decidedly more difficult to employ these frequencies satisfactorily."
"In the development of dial telephone switching systems two fundamentally different arrangements have been devised for controlling the operations of the switches. In one arrangement the switch at each successive stage is directly responsive to the digit that is being dialed. Systems using this method of operation are called direct dial control systems, an example being the step-by-step system as commonly used in the Bell System. In the other arrangement the dialed information is stored for a short time by centralized control equipment before being used in controlling the switching operations. Systems using the second arrangement are known as common control systems, examples of which are rotary, panel and crossbar. These two arrangements have different economic fields of use, the direct dial control being better suited for the smaller telephone exchanges and the common controls for the larger exchanges, especially those in metropolitan areas. A history of the evolution of these types of switching systems is presented, followed by a discussion of their comparative merits for various fields of use."
"This part of the paper continues the analysis of the low-loss, broad-band, laminated transmission lines proposed by A. M. Clogston, and deals particularly with “Clogston 2” lines, in which the entire propagation space is filled with laminated material."
"The general transistor properties of small size and weight, low power and voltage, and potential long life suggest extensive application of transistors to pulse or switching type systems of computer or computer-like nature. It is possible to devise simple regenerative circuits which perform the normally employed functions of waveform generation, level restoration, delay, storage (registry or memory), and counting. The discussion is limited to point contact type transistors in which the alpha or current gain is in excess of unity and to a particular feedback configuration. Such circuits, which are of the so-called trigger type, are postulated to involve negative resistance. On this basis an analysis, which approximates the negative resistance characteristic by three intersecting broken lines, is developed. Conclusions which are useful to circuit and device design are reached. The analysis is deemed sufficiently accurate for the first order equilibrium calculations. Transistors having properties specifically intended for pulse service in the circuits described have been developed. Their properties, and limitations, and parameter characterizations are discussed at some length."
"A careful treatment of the zero-point energy of the spin-waves in the Kramers-Heller semiclassical theory of ferromagnetics leads to surprisingly exact results for the properties of the ground state, as shown by Klein and Smith. An analogous treatment of the antiferromagnetic ground state, whose properties were unknown, is here carried out and justified. The results are expected to be valid to order 1/S or better, where S is the spin quantum number of the separate atoms. The energy of the ground state is computed and found to lie within limits found elsewhere on rigorous grounds. For the linear chain, there is no long-range order in the ground state; for the simple cubic and plane square lattices, a finite long-range order in the ground state is found. The fact that this order can be observed experimentally, somewhat puzzling since one knows the ground state to be a singlet, is explained."
"A. Eugene Anderson, B. Sc. in E.E., Ohio State University, 1939; M. Sc., Ohio State University, 1939. U. S. Army, 1942–46. Bell Telephone Laboratories, 1939–. Mr. Anderson is concerned with the development of semi-conductor devices, including the transistor. In the past he has been engaged in microwave electron tube and electron beam tube development. Member of I. R. E., Tau Beta Pi, Sigma Xi, Eta Kappa Nu, and Sigma Pi Sigma."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Pulse distortion as manifested by droop and rise in plate and grid currents has been observed over a portion of the positive grid region for certain samples of standard receiving type vacuum tubes when tracing their characteristics by a succession of pulses using the curve tracer described by the writer in Electronics, April, 1951. It appears that some of these effects fit in with the work of K.G. Hernqvist on “Space-charge and ion trapping effects in tetrodes”, (PROC. I.R.E.; December, 1951) in which it is shown that the secondary electron current from the plate to screen grid is affected by residual gas ionization and results in a transient response corresponding to the period of ionization buildup. Tests made on triode receiving tubes at positive grid potentials appear to confirm this theory. Other behavior observed is found to be affected by gas, but does not appear to depend upon secondary emission. The effects are illustrated by oscillograms taken of positive-grid characteristics and pulse wave forms for commonly used tubes, such as the 6SN7 and 6SL7 twin triodes. It is shown that distortion is noticeable for grid gas current readings well below the maximum specification value."
"A cathode-ray tube with an electrostatic deflection system operated directly by high-voltage pulses would circumvent many of the problems encountered in the measurement and display of such pulses. The conventional techniques of measurement have not kept up with recent advances in the techniques of generation of high-voltage pulses. This difficulty of measurement seems to be particularly great in the radar field, where modern requirements demand shorter pulses of higher peak powers than ever before. As radar transmitter powers have increased, the problems of measuring and timing modulator pulse shapes and amplitudes have become increasingly difficult."
"Beam loading plays an important part in the determination of the power gain and efficiency of klystrons; hence it is desirable to have an accurate theoretical knowledge of this phenomenon. The usual beam loading analysis considers only the loading effects of a d-c beam of primary electrons on a resonator. It can be shown that these electrons effectively change the shunt impedance of the resonator and shift its resonant frequency1. However, if this magnitude of this effect is subject to investigation in a resonator with grids, it is found that observed beam loading is many times more severe than primary theory predicts2,3."
"Noise measurements on two p-n junctions, biased in the forward direction, have been carried out between 1 kc and 64 kc for a wide range of currents (0–1000 μA). Several other properties of the junction which might help in interpreting our noise data were also measured. Both junctions were almost identical."
"A number of suggestions have been made concerning the current gain of point contact transistors. The P-N hook theory and the trap theory have been considered in most detail. It has been our purpose in the work described here to differentiate between the effects of these two mechanisms and show their relation to the current gain of typical point contact transistors."
"The basic principles of the Ansco Color Negative-Positive Process are outlined. The paper deals with the essential characteristics of the color film materials used for the process and outlines the printing and processing steps required. Methods used to comply with the requirements of the motion picture industry in regard to color dupes for optical effects, protection masters, color negative master dupes, and color release printing are described. Requirements of sound and procedures to produce silver sound tracks are discussed."
"A technique of multiple-image silhouette photography has been developed for the NOTS Aeroballistics Laboratory. Six or more silhouette images of missile models are imposed at a high rate upon a single photographic plate. A series of such plates is used in precision photogrammetry to determine the orientation and position of the models in transonic and supersonic flight. While neither stroboscopic nor silhouette photography is unique in itself, it is believed that the combination of the two, as described in this paper, is a new technique."
"Concerning the optical theory of the rotating prism in high-speed cameras, there have been Letters to the Editor published in the Journal in July 1951. As the Letters dealt with more or less controversial interpretations of the problems involved in conventional high-speed camera design, I am glad to have this opportunity to expand upon the applications of the basic principles to the definite possibility of a promising and perhaps unexpected development in this field. It is necessary, however, to start with a survey of the existing commercial types."
"Observers compared the interfering effect of multiple echoes with that of single echoes in black-and-white television pictures. The multiple echoes were 2, 4 or 8 echoes of equal strength but different delays. The single echoes were 40, 35 or 30 db weaker than the main signal. A method for estimating addition effects of several echoes is presented and demonstrated to be consistent with the test results."
"The TelePrompter is a device now being used extensively in motion picture and television productions, and by public speakers as an aid in delivery of a prepared script. It is a production tool of great flexibility; its technical features and applications are described."
"The Synchro-screen* is described as consisting of a motion picture screen with contiguous reflecting side wings, top and bottom panels. The picture surround surfaces synchronously fluctuate in light intensity and color with the changes in picture light and color adjacent to the reflecting surround areas. There is an appreciable increase in the subtended angles of the luminous field of view of the theater patron. A luminous, maskless stage setting is thus created for the viewing of motion pictures."
"The Motion Picture Research Council has announced the preparation of a resolution test chart designed primarily for the use of studio camera departments. When mounted in front of a 35mm camera lens at a distance in inches equivalent to the focal length of the lens in millimeters, its image exactly fills a standard 35mm aperture (American Standard Z22.59-1947). Resolution test figures in key positions over the field will then indicate limits of resolution directly in lines per millimeter. Other test patterns give qualitative indications of serious aberrations or other lens defects while carefully designed focus figures at the center and each corner assist in studies involving depth of focus and curvature of field."
"This committee was organized under its present Chairman and Committee personnel early in 1949. The original agenda of this Committee was thought to be concerned primarily with chemical and chemical engineering problems associated with the motion picture industry. The proposed agenda was directed into these particular channels primarily because the membership of the Committee was composed largely of chemists and chemical engineers working in motion picture laboratories. The first meeting of this Committee, however, brought out rather clearly that there were many problems to be considered before too much effort was expended on purely chemical and chemical engineering problems."
"The oldest television camera tube, the iconoscope, is now used only for transmitting still pictures (e.g. the signal picture of a certain station) and film pictures. Further development of camera tubes in Europe has followed a course different from that in America. In the U.S.A. the image orthicon has become predominant, whilst in Europe the image iconoscope is widely used. Of the latter there are British and French versions and also one that has been developed in the Philips Laboratory at Eindhoven (Netherlands). This Philips image iconoscope is described here and compared with other camera tubes."
"Professional three-dimensional (3-D) film productions cannot be satisfactorily undertaken without a comprehensive theory of the transmission of an image in space from scene to screen. In Part I the outlines of such a theory are laid down, and the elements of a standard set of concepts and nomenclature put forward. Part II draws an example from a recent film, The Black Swan, to show how the stereotechnician computes a sequence of shots in the desired space relationship, and how simple graphical techniques may be employed to plot such relationships. From these graphs may be determined the magnitude of any postcorrections required to alter the continuity in space, to adjust the film to screens of widely differing size or to eliminate certain camera errors. Part III forms a critique of existing camera procedures, including those based on the supposed identity between human vision and the viewing of the space image. Part IV sums up the differences of technique between the flat film and the 3-D film."
"Stereoscopic mathematics are far too complicated to apply easily and speedily to every point in the many drawings and cells required to obtain motion in animated films, or in a usable volume of art for commercial or lecture purposes. The following procedure was developed to allow stereo drawings to be made with a minimum of time and effort and still produce practical three-dimensional material."
"With the advent of television and the consequent increased use of the animated film for advertising, it has become necessary to devise quick and inexpensive methods for the small studio to produce such films. In this paper some simplified techniques for animation are described."
"X-ray motion picture techniques are reviewed with attention to relative exposure requirements and ability to record detail. Direct cineradiography on full-scale screen-films provides the best reproduction of detail but does not at present reach true motion picture speeds. Cinefluorography is the most flexible and least expensive of the traditional methods. Because of harmful effects of radiation cinefluorographic examinations of human subjects must generally be limited to a relatively few seconds. The length of examinations can be much prolonged with the help of screen image intensification. Unfortunately the x-ray motion pictures made by kinescope recording are not yet satisfactory from the point of view of detail."
"A precision color temperature meter utilizing red and blue filters is described. A special logarithmic diaphragm largely eliminates undesirable effects of nonuniform response over the cell area and aids accurate setting of the red filter standard at high intensities."
"The three common forms of sound recording may be classed as mechanical (disk), photographic and magnetic. All three methods are in common use today and each is employed in a field for which it appears to be peculiarly fitted. The purpose of this article is to examine briefly the factors which determine the fidelity of each method. By fidelity we mean how true the tonal range can be reproduced, the amount and nature of harmonic distortion present, the signal-to-noise ratio possible with each method, and the amount of wow or flutter that may be expected under average conditions of reproduction for each recording process."
"The requirements of magnetic recording equipment for sound motion pictures have been found to vary greatly with different customers. In order to provide the necessary flexibility to meet these different requirements and to include various custom features, the functional units of a magnetic recording channel have been designed on separate rack-mounted panels which can be installed in varying arrangements in a standard amplifier rack. These include items for both single-track and three-track equipments, and film widths of 16mm, 17 1/2mm and 35mm."
"This paper describes a high-intensity arc slide projector which is powered from a 110-v, 60-cycle convenience outlet and requires only 10-amp supply. The resulting intensity of illumination is sufficient for screens of 35 ft in width."
"STARTING ABOUT 1940, there has been a rapidly growing need in the motion picture industry for a more accurate expression of the photographic speed of a lens than is afforded by the simple f-number ratio. The Proposed American Standard appearing on the following pages is the product of many years' industrious and patient effort to achieve agreement on a standard photometric method of aperture calibration. It is published here for 6-month trial and criticism. All comments should be sent to Henry Kogel, SMPTE Staff Engineer, prior to April 15, 1953, along with a carbon for R. Kingslake, Chairman of the Optics Committee."
"THE PRECEDING REPORT on international standardization by F. T. Bowditch has clearly outlined the general aspects of the three-day meeting, June 9–11, of Technical Committee 36 on Cinematography of the International Organization for Standardization (ISO/TC 36). It is, therefore, the intent to present here only the specific details considered and the concrete results to date."
"This brief outline of the organization of the San Francisco Subsection of the Society may be of interest and assistance to similarly situated groups in other localities."
"The ability of a photographic material to produce pictures having good definition is commonly referred to as its sharpness, which is a subjective concept. The objective quantity 〈G2x〉Av. DS is shown to be a physical measurement which correlates with sharpness judgments. 〈G2x〉Av is the mean of the square of the density gradients, ×D/×x, across an abrupt boundary between a light and a dark area in the developed image and DS is the density difference between these areas. 〈G2x〉Av is evaluated only for those values greater than 0.005 in density per micron which represents the threshold gradient. It is shown that, contrary to the generally accepted belief, resolving power does not correlate well with sharpness judgments and in some cases is even misleading."
"The planning for the Telecinema is described, then the building and the projection equipment. Also discussed are the developing of stereoscopic cameras and new formulas, producing the films, and introducing stereophonic sound and large-screen live television shows. The success of various parts of the program is evaluated and possibilities for the future assessed."
"This informal report describes the reaction of the audience to a most unusual programme of large-screen television, plus stereoscopic films accompanied by stereophonic sound."
"Heretofore, the task of recording sound on 16mm film has been a job for the engineer and the most aggressive amateur. With the advent of successful striping of 16mm film with magnetic coating, synchronized sound with picture is now a reality for a greater number of people. The instrument described in this paper has been designed to record, reproduce and erase magnetic sound track, as well as to reproduce photographic sound track of 16mm film."
"Use of two drums in tight-loop type of film-drive filter system solves the problem of film support in magnetic recorder-reproducer utilizing two separate magnetic head assemblies. Performance of filter system is analyzed."
"This new portable magnetic recording channel, designed primarily for 17 1/2mm film provides high-quality operation and all of the needed facilities for production recording. By operating at 45 fpm a considerable economy in film cost is realized and the size and weight of the recorder are reduced. The recorder is also adaptable for 16mm or 35mm film. A new amplifier system utilizing miniature tubes and small components is provided as part of the equipment."
"The name of this association shall be SOCIETY OF MOTION PICTURE AND TELEVISION ENGINEERS."
"Sec. 1. Membership of the Society shall consist of the following grades: Honorary members, Sustaining members, Fellows, Active members, Associate members and Student members."
"Further information about these items can be obtained direct from the addresses given. As in the case of technical papers, the Society is not responsible for manufacturers' statements, and publication of these items does not constitute endorsement of the products."
"Presented by Otto H. Schade, Tube Dept., Radio Corporation of America, Harrison, N.J., in part on April 20, 1950, at the Society's Atlantic Coast Section Meeting at New York, and on May 3, 1951, at the Society's Convention at New York. Portions of this paper have been made available to the Subcommittee on Distribution Facilities, Theater Television Committee of the SMPTE, in the form of three reports: (1) “Random Fluctuations in Television and Motion Pictures,” June 7, 1950; (2) “Outline and Results of a Study to Determine Television System Parameters Providing an Image Sharpness Equivalent to a 35-Millimeter Motion Picture Process,” May 15, 1951; (3) “Theater Television Transmission Channel: Choice of Performance Factors,” May 31, 1951."
"A color film for use in an ordinary 35mm motion picture camera is described. This film contains colored couplers which, upon development to a negative, lead to three-color negative records which are almost fully corrected. The development procedures and the sensitometric characteristics are described. The spectral-density characteristics of the individual images are included. This film is printed on a color positive film. The spectral-density characteristics of the dye images obtained in the positive, the development conditions and the sensitometric characteristics of the positive are given. The printing may be done on an ordinary continuous contact printer. However, scene-to-scene color-balance changes require more complicated equipment. The sensitometric characteristics of the sound-track image and the method of developing this image are described. The color positive film may also be used for making prints from black-and-white color-separation negatives."
"The use of an electronic photometer is described for maintaining color and intensity balance in 35mm color printers. Some precautions are given on the use of color-correcting filters and data are provided on the hue shift with temperature and consequent reduction of transmission of certain glass filters."
"Current 16mm release prints are evaluated for sound quality, chiefly by measuring dynamic range. Projection equipment and conditions are described."
"Two high-speed motion picture cameras developed by the French firm of Merlin-Gerin-Debuit are briefly described. The first operates at a speed of 3000 frame/sec, using 100-ft rolls of 16mm film; the second, using standard 35mm film, can be operated up to a speed of 100,000 frame/second. Both cameras employ a rotating lens drum. In the slower camera ordinary oscillographic film unwinds continuously by conventional means. The second camera uses the device of a film strip which is attached to the interior of the lens drum rotating with it."
"The projector used for this equipment drives a 35mm motion picture film at the standard (nonintermittent) speed of 24 frame/sec and produces a television signal of 525 lines and 30 frames interlaced 2 to 1. The projector utilizes a system of movable plane mirrors mounted on a rotating drum and controlled by a single stationary cam. Vertical jitter in the television image is minimized by means of an electronic servo system operating on the film sprocket holes, resulting in a residual vertical motion of about 1/2000 of a picture height. A second electronic servo system is incorporated to suppress flicker. The combination of this scanner and a high-grade monitor is capable of producing a television picture with a resolution corresponding to about 8 me and with good tone rendition over a range up to 200 to 1."
"Altering the velocity of traverse of the electron stream in combination with a suitable heterogeneous reproducing screen is the basis of a device described. It differs from the CBS mechanical, the RCA tricolor tube and the Geer screen systems of color television reproducers."
"The characteristics of torque-motor drives are described in connection with their use for take-up and feed spools in film-pulling mechanisms. A useful but limited field of application for this type of drive appears to be indicated."
"Radiant energy incident upon a glass plate can be divided into transmitted and reflected bands by the interference effect in thin films of dielectrics deposited on the glass. The mirror described here reflects over 95% of incident visible light and transmits a large part of the energy beyond 7000 A. Such mirrors have been produced and typical transmission characteristics are shown. Several arrangements for use of such a mirror with a carbon arc are also shown."
"A gasoline engine-driven, 120-v, d-c generator of 150-kw output for set lighting on location has been improved. The enclosing wall structures, materials and carburetor air-intake were changed. When mounted on a trailer the exhaust and radiator and noise are considerably reduced by methods described. The improvements permit sound recording with the generator as close as 250 ft under reasonably favorable circumstances and not exceeding 750 ft for critical conditions. Considerable saving in production costs results."
"The development of the various new and improved multilayer color films emphasized the need for a standard-type motion picture film developing machine that would be capable of handling any of the new types of multilayer color films. A machine of deep-tank, positive top-drive type embodying bottom elevators, turbulation or spray facilities in all tanks and practical flexibility, enabling it to be set up in any practical combination of solutions and washes to develop the various types of multilayer color films available, has been developed and put into operation as a production machine by the Cine-color Corporation. A special arrangement of the geared drivehead allows any of the racks to be removed without affecting the drive, and the drive has been designed to provide for the attachment of desired auxiliary equipment."
"A three-pole magnetic head produces a magnetic field at the recording gap which is more uniform throughout the thickness of the magnetizable layer, and decays more rapidly at the trailing edge. With this head, optimum bias is practically the same for high as for low audiofrequencies. High audio-frequencies are recorded at a 3-db to 7-db higher output level before distortion as compared with a similar head of conventional design."
"This paper explains the transferring of magnetic film from the daily okayed production takes to push-pull direct-positive film. By using a protective coating on the sound track, the cutting-room hazards are reduced 90%. This coating can be “peeled off” just before dubbing, assuring a new clean track from which to dub."
"This paper describes a method of recording and printing two separate sound tracks within the normal single-track area for 16mm or 35mm release prints. A projector conversion kit for reproducing the double tracks separately or simultaneously is also discussed. This technique has possible application in reducing distribution costs on foreign versions and in the educational and television fields."
"The parallax barrier, which is a type of selective masking device now being applied in color television and in stereoscopic imagery, is discussed. A brief history along with the principle and geometric relationship underlying its operation is given. Various systems employing two or more image elements per aperture and utilizing the maximum image area are described. It is also shown that nonplanar and nonparallel arrangements are possible, and that plane barrier surfaces may be coupled to nonplanar image surfaces. Furthermore, lenses may replace the mechanical-type barriers resulting in a more light-efficient system. Formulae are presented and specific applications to multiple-color television tubes are discussed."
"This paper discusses the development of a new direct-vision stereo-projection screen. It permits the audience to see three-dimensional color motion pictures and slides without the aid of conventional polarized viewing glasses."
"The use of the automatic torque controller permits the full advantages of torque motors to be realized for film take-up and holdback duty without being handicapped by their inherent limitations when operated in the conventional manner."
"Described is the development of a nonrotating device for the conversion of single-phase 115-v power to a three-phase 230-v form for the synchronous operation of cameras, sound recorders and other film pulling mechanisms associated with production of motion pictures."
"This is a system for monitoring the light output of an are projector during projection. It comprises a piece of optically flat glass, not silvered, placed in the projector light path, at an angle of 45°, and ahead of the film gate. The light thus thrown off to the side is measured by a photovoltaic light meter."
"The details of a rotating-drum camera are described. The camera is used to record displacement-time data for short cylindrical specimens made of a rubberlike material which are subjected to compressive impact loadings lasting from 5 to 20 milliseconds. The auxiliaries to the camera are discussed in light of the particular needs of a study being conducted on the dynamic properties of plastics and rubberlike materials."
"The production of a motion picture is traced from the request stage through the Navy Film Board of Review, to production by either commercial contractor or the Navy Photographic Center. Film distribution is described, and also the special photographic services available to the film and television industries by the Naval Photographic Center's film depository."
"A number of nonsilver photographic, or light-sensitive systems such as those based on diazo dyes, have been used or proposed for specialized purposes. None of them, as yet, exhibits the sensitivity or the wide applicability of the silver process. This survey of the current status of these systems will discuss current limitations as well as possible future prospects with particular reference to the field of motion picture engineering."
"Wheels have been turning for the Washington Convention ever since the Editorial-Papers Committee Meeting at Hollywood last October. In addition to specific plans for last April's Chicago Convention, general plans were laid for a year ahead and Joe Aiken, Papers Committee Vice-chairman for Washington, D.C., was welcomed and was promised cooperation from all present in his job as Program Chairman."
"Status of Proposed Standards: In the past year or so quite a few proposed standards have been published for trial and criticism. The status of these is outlined below to bring all concerned up to date.—Henry Kogel, Staff Engineer."
"The paper considers the cinematograph camera and assesses its inherent limitations. The advantages of multiple-camera working are discussed, with special reference to the electronic camera; the recording of an electronic image is shown to be the culminating development. The paper discusses picture quality, contrast range and tonal fidelity, and the objective and subjective evaluation of definition. The reconciliation of the electronic and photographic viewpoints is shown to be possible, and the standards of the motion-picture and television industries are compared. The paper concludes with a survey of the performance requirements of the electronic camera, the mechanics of motion-picture recording of electronic images and factors governing the choice of film stock."
"The paper by Messrs. Collins and Macnamara describes a proposal that will be followed with great interest, for the application of television to motion picture production techniques. The objective “that, to be acceptable, motion pictures made by the process described in the paper must to all practical intents and purposes be indistinguishable from those made by ordinary optical methods” will appear especially challenging."
"The authors were careful to point out that this paper was of an essentially interim nature, and did little beyond defining some of the major difficulties with which those who seek to make motion pictures by a television intermediate process are faced."
"The U.S. Army Signal Corps' mobile television system is briefly described. In this system five vehicles — a transmitter bus, transmitter power bus, receiver bus, receiver power bus, and kinescope recording bus — are used to provide a complete television unit designed to meet training and operational requirements of the Army."
"The history of the use of semi-high-speed photography as a research tool for the study of the combustion process in gasoline engines at General Motors Research Laboratories is presented. The investigations consist of direct photography of the luminous combustion process as seen through quartz windows in the heads of several gasoline internal combustion engines. Both commercial cameras and cameras designed and built in these laboratories were used."
"Parameter limits in high-speed camera design and physical characteristics of photographic images limit the assessment accuracy of high-speed metric film records. The errors in film measurements range from 2 to 75 microns. Proper design of field instrumentation is required to minimize effects of reading errors in a measurement system for ballistic data."
"This paper describes a method of using the high-speed camera in medical research on heart disease. Normal and abnormal human and animal hearts are photographed at high speed simultaneously with the electrocardiograph recording, to ascertain and to study the conditions revealed by similar electrocardiograms of human patients."
"Several new series of highly corrected lenses for high-speed motion picture and professional 35mm use have been designed with focal lengths ranging from 3.7 mm to 2000 mm. Mirror optics have been used for the longer focal length lenses. Particular optical design and fabrication problems are discussed with reference to mirror optics. Special optical devices to aid the high-speed photographer are discussed."
"A high-speed framing camera of some general utility has been developed at the Los Alamos Scientific laboratory and operated up to 3,500,000 frames/sec. Use is made of a rotating mirror and 170 framing lenses working at f/26 to produce frame pictures 1.2 × 1.4 cm in size. Another model operating at 100,000 frames/sec has been made with 90 circular frames 2 cm in size."
"Acoustic problems arising in connection with the reproduction of sound films in an open-air theater are discussed. The proper arrangement of loudspeakers as well as the careful adjustment of their beam direction is of utmost importance. It is demonstrated that a uniform sound level with a considerable increase in volume can thereby be attained. Furthermore, as a result of the concentration of sound waves, a substantial increase in the frequency band will occur. The amplifier power necessary for the required acoustic output is calculated."
"The fundamental considerations affecting stereoscopic vision are used as a basis of a description of the Kern-Paillard Bolex stereo system for 16mm film."
"The Last Report of the Screen Brightness Committee presented at the April 1950 meeting of the Society1 related a number of items receiving the attention of the committee. This report will summarize our progress to date and will outline some of our future plans."
"ASA rules require periodic review of all American Standards. In accord with this procedure, the 16mm and 8mm Motion Pictures Committee and the Standards Committee have recently reviewed Z22.50-1946 and reaffirmed it without change. The appropriate ASA committees have now approved this reaffirmation and the standard is therefore published on the following page as a validated 1952 standard."
"Two Revised American Standards and one Proposed Standard are published on the following pages for three month trial and criticism. All comments should be sent to Henry Kogel, SMPTE Staff Engineer, prior to April 1, 1953. If no adverse comments are received, the three proposals will then be submitted to ASA Sectional Committee PH22 for further processing as American Standards."
"The dimensions given in this standard represent the practice of film manufacturers in that the dimensions and tolerances are for film immediately after perforation. The punches and dies themselves are made to tolerances considerably smaller than those given, but owing to the fact that film is a plastic material, the dimensions of the slit and perforated film never agree exactly with the dimensions of the punches and dies. Shrinkage of the film, due to change in moisture content or loss of residual solvents, invariably results in a change in these dimensions during the life of the film. This change is generally uniform throughout the roll."
"The dimensions given in this standard represent the practice of film manufacturers in that the dimensions and tolerances are for film immediately after perforation. The punches and dies themselves are made to tolerances considerably smaller than those given, but owing to the fact that film is a plastic material, the dimensions of the slit and perforated film never agree exactly with the dimensions of the punches and dies. Shrinkage of the film, due to change in moisture content or loss of residual solvents, invariably results in a change in these dimensions during the life of the film. This change is generally uniform throughout the roll."
"The dimensions given in this standard represent the practice of film manufacturers in that the dimensions and tolerances are for film immediately after perforation. The punches and,dies themselves are made to tolerances considerably smaller than those given, but owing to the fact that film is a plastic material, the dimensions of the slit and perforated film never agree exactly with the dimensions of the punches and dies. Shrinkage of the film, due to change in moisture content or loss of residual solvents, invariably results in a change in these dimensions during the life of the film. This change is generally uniform throughout the roll."
"THE ENQINEERINC ACTIVITIES of the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers are much more extensive than perhaps most members realize. Engineering Committee reports appear in the Journal from time to time, but usually these give a detailed picture in a rather limited field rather than a broad view of the total activity. The frequent publication of proposed American Standards is another evidence of Society engineering activity, but this has sometimes created the feeling that the preparation of Standards proposals is the only activity in which the Engineering Committees of the Society are engaged. For these reasons, the writer has been encouraged to prepare this present report, designed to provide an overall picture which, while perhaps over-simplified in the particular details most familiar to any one reader, will at the same time give him information of general interest in other less familiar fields."
"Oscillographic measurements of the light output from argon explosive flash-lamps show that the flash duration is about 1 μsec for a 0.5-cm thickness of argon over the end of a cone of cast pentolite 2 in. in diameter. The peak light output is about 200 million cp, and the total output about 200 cp secs. Photographs of the argon lamps were made with a magnetooptic shutter having an effective exposure of about 1 μsec to show the space origin of the light."
"This color densitometer is for making diffuse density measurements in the blue, green and red, as well as visual bands. This densitometer utilizes an integrating bar for gathering the light, therewith greatly increasing the sensitivity as compared to other methods presently used."
"The color contribution of a lens has been defined in terms of its transmittance density at 400 and 700 mμ. It is proposed that the difference in the densities at these two wavelengths be held to 0.05 ± .03 for motion picture camera lenses; 0.05 ± .05 for other camera lenses. To prevent the curve from being too highly inflected between these two points an additional requirement is that the minimum density between 400 and 700 mμ differ from the density at 700 mμ by no more than 0.04 density units. It has been found convenient to describe quantitatively the glass absorption by a term called “color index.” A simple method of determining the combined effect of glass absorption and surface coating is outlined."
"Educational and psychological principles applied by the Signal Corps in experimental film designed to increase training effectiveness and to cut time and cost of production are presented. Also described are story treatment, studio techniques, and preproduction analysis and planning that are involved in these productions. Results are reported of the evaluation study of film effectiveness and audience reaction to scenario treatment."
"The Naval Ordnance Laboratory, White Oak, Md., is not only a research and development center for ordnance material, but it has also become a center for the dissemination of scientific information. Technical meetings and symposia of international fame have been held in the auditorium, specifically designed for such meetings, seating 550, with optimum acoustics. Included are a console for control of 21 microphones, telephone communication with the moderator, and controlled levels to sound recording facilities. The projectionist has direct contact with the speaker, the console, the thyra-tron-controlled overhead lights, and preset stage lighting. Complete audiovisual aids are available."
"Nitrate film has imposed special requirements on projection-room design for many years. The advent of 35mm safety film may change some of these, and this possibility is discussed. The increasing use of films, both nitrate and safety types, in television studio operations calls for similar precautions, and the presence of considerable electronic equipment adds to the normal hazards. These hazards and certain others peculiar to live program presentations are discussed. Safety problems involved in the installation and operation of high-voltage television equipment in theaters are outlined."
"A new series of lenses for 35mm motion picture cameras has been designed as the first to primarily meet the many detailed requirements of military use. These are designated by the name Miltar, and represent the achievement of new goals. It has been a joint development by two companies who pooled resources and experience to provide a series in a minimum of time and cost with high performance. Many mechanical features have been combined with top optical performance to provide dependable operation over a wide range of conditions."
"Low-distortion sound tracks on Kodachrome films can be obtained with any conventional exposure method. The best possible sound reproduction requires exposure with light of color quality which correlates the speeds of the individual emulsions when developed to silver sulfide rather than to dyes. Poor sound quality in the past has often been the result of the failure to recognize the critical color quality requirement of the light which exposes the sound-track portion of the film."
"Silver sulfide deposits have spectral density characteristics which tend to make densitometry less reliable than density measurements of silver deposits. Interference filters may be useful in restricting the bandwidth of response of electronic densitometers so that densitometry of silver sulfide deposits will have increased significance."
"Present-day demands for high-intensity light sources point up the need for a suitable technique for reduction of excessive film buckle. Air jets which direct a continuous air flow against one or both of the film faces have been proposed. This technique does not, however, take into account the cyclical nature of film surface deformations during projection. It is found that improved performance can be obtained with a modulated air blast which is synchronized to the frame cycle. This paper describes the cyclical effects involved and shows why the modulated air blast is to be preferred over continuous air blast. It presents experimental data regarding buckle magnitudes in 35mm film and describes the experimental equipment."
"In this system the light valve is placed in the cathode circuit of a nonlinear amplifier, the nonlinearity being of such a nature that the relation between the input to the amplifier and the transmission of the developed film is linear over a large percentage of the film-transmission range. The method of determining the shape of the necessary nonlinearity and how it is produced is described."
"Before reading the article by Otto C. Bixler beginning on page 109, please read the page of Interlingua translation immediately following this and see how much of it you can understand at sight."
"Le disveloppamento hodierne del apparatura de phonoreproduction es multo avantiate. Proque le avantages del registration stereophonic ha previemente essite demonstrate, nos ha credite que le proxime desiderato re apparaturas commercial esserea le fabrication a precio rationabile de un systema binaural. Nos presenta hic un revista del factores theoric implicite in binaural phonoregistration e reproduction, insimul con un description del apparatura technic disveloppate pro satisfacer le requirimento de alte qualitate acustic intra le limites de rationabile costos total. Nos describe alicun nove problemas e effectos incontrate in iste programma de disveloppamento."
"Present-day sound recording-reproducing equipment is at a very high state of development and, since the benefits of stereophonic recording have been previously demonstrated, it was believed that the next desirable step in commercial equipment would be the manufacture of a reasonably priced binaural system. A review of the theoretical factors involved in binaural sound recording and reproduction is presented along with a description of the technical equipment developed to fill the needs of high-quality binaural sound consistent with a reasonable overall equipment cost. Some novel problems and effects experienced in this development program are described."
"A novel system of lens focusing, coupled with a synchronized parallax correction cam and focusing viewfinder, is accomplished by the use of planetary gearing to the lenses which also permits fast shifting of lenses without disengaging any cams, gears or footage dials. A plastic camera blimp for the 16mm professional camera and follow-focus mechanism is introduced which reduces the noise level to permit professional sound cinematography."
"A new, inexpensive, instantaneous dual theater projection television system of the Schmidt type is described. A simple control box providing almost instantaneous change-over, in the event of breakdown, and mechanical arrangements facilitating ease of installation and maintenance are discussed."
"This is a report on theater television developments in terms of the industry, programs, program distribution and the public interest in this new medium."
"THE INITIAL WORK on this proposal was done by an RMA Subcommittee, TR4.4.2, and a first draft was circulated in May 1950. Need for extensive revision was indicated at the final meeting of TR4.4.2 held in June 1950. At about this time, the present Joint RTMA/ SMPTE Committee on Television Film Equipment was organized to replace the RMA Subcommittee."
"The economics of the use of high-speed photography in research and development work are discussed. High-speed photography is a relatively new tool for engineers which can be used to measure mechanical or electrical effects or both at the same time. Examples are given which illustrate the savings in engineering manpower as well as in materials, devices and systems."
"This paper describes a transient-pressure recording camera with a full scale pressure range (by changing diaphragms) of 3 psi to 50,000 psi, and an accuracy of one-half per cent of full scale for any range. Its stability and hysteresis are such that a single static calibration suffices for years of dynamic measurements, and its frequency response varies from 10,000 cycle/sec to 100,000 cycle/sec, depending on the pressure range of the diaphragm used. The paper includes records of interesting applications."
"For a specified reproducer frequency-response characteristic, there exists an optimum slit height. The optimum slit height depends upon the relative amounts of shot noise from the photosurface and thermal noise from the amplifier circuits. Calculated and measured values of optimum slit height are presented. The slit height which minimizes noise is undesirably large. Shot and thermal noise levels may be ignored if the d-c voltage drop across the effective phototube load resistor, without film in the light path, is of the order of 300 mv or higher."
"Selected production magnetic tracks are transferred to a recorder which lays down collinear 200-mil push-pull direct-positive variable-area and magnetic tracks. Magnetic stripe is on base of photosensitive emulsion on the opposite edge of film from photo track. The photo track may be used for reviewing, cutting, etc. Re-recording is done from assembled magnetic tracks. This method combines advantages of photo track for editing and provides superior quality of magnetic track. Certain operating economies are made possible by this method."
"This paper describes the television stations which the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation has built in Montreal and Toronto for the inauguration of television broadcasting in Canada. In planning these stations certain special requirements had to be met such as the necessity for programming in two languages in Montreal and the need for producing a relatively large percentage of locally originated shows in both cities."
"The selection of a 35mm color film for the documentary or commercial motion picture producer is a problem of choosing an economical and, from a processing standpoint, a practical type of color film. Both color and black-and-white (35mm and/or 16mm) are sometimes required and a color film which adequately fills such requirements is described here."
"An illuminating system in a contact-printer for color motion pictures is described. Light from a single lamp is divided into three beams which are independently filtered, controlled in intensity, and projected onto the printer aperture. Intensities of the red, green and blue components of the exposing light are measured continuously and photoelectrically and compared with reference voltages which are the analogs of the desired intensities and which are controlled by a perforated tape according to the predetermined requirements of each scene to be printed. Any errors between measured intensities and desired intensities, i.e., between photocell outputs and reference voltages, are amplified and applied to servomotors which rotate vanes in the respective beams until the correct intensities are established. A response time of the order of 1/50 sec has been achieved, and the intensity of the printing light is substantially independent of lamp current and age. A manual control on each of the reference voltages provides for emulsion-to-emulsion variations in print stock."
"THE BASIC COLOR sensitivity of the Technicolor process has been changed to a color temperature of 3350 K. When white light sources, such as sunlight, are used, the camera optical systems are filtered for proper balance. Incandescent tungsten filament lamps of the proper color temperatures are used unfiltered. When carbon arcs are used mixed with unfiltered tungsten lamps it becomes necessary to filter the carbon arcs to the lower color temperature. This is accomplished by using one MT-2 and one Y-1 filter on all high-intensity arc spotlamps and one MT-2 filter only on Duarc flood lamps. It is possible, however, to filter the camera optical train for sunlight balance and use the carbon-arc floodlamps unfiltered, the high-intensity carbon-arc spotlamps with only a Y-1 light yellow straw filter, and to filter the incandescent lamps with whiterlite filters as in the past. This gives the system a greater latitude so it may be used with incandescent tungsten lamps alone, where desired, at a key-light level as low as 150 ft-c; or with carbon arcs, or sunlight, with a key-light level of 300 ft-c; or with mixed lighting in either case provided the light sources are all adjusted to the balance of the particular camera filter system."
"Limitations imposed by television and photographic processes, employment of electrical compensation for degradations in detail and contrast rendition, with experimental investigation of various aspects of the system, are reviewed. Conclusions regarding improved recording devices and techniques are offered."
"The multichannel magnetic film recorder and reproducer provides three 200-mil tracks in accordance with proposed ASA standard for 35mm film. The effective crosstalk between adjacent tracks approximates −60 db and flutter content does not exceed 0.05%. Complete recording and reproducing transmission equipment is housed in the recorder and associated base cabinet. The recording channels operate from a nominal input level of −30 dbm, and a reproduced output of +16 dbm is obtained from each of the reproducing channels. Monitoring of each channel is provided from a separate triple-track head."
"This paper sets forth technical data indicating that in magnetic recording on 35mm film, high sprocket-hole modulation is encountered in the area between 50 and 100 mils from the sprocket holes. The paper suggests a change in the proposed ASA standard for 35mm sound track placement."
"The principle described is a radical departure from those heretofore used in compressors. The features of this compressor are extremely low thump, very fast action (if desired), low distortion and freedom from the need for special circuit components or selected tubes. Fundamental circuits are discussed, and performance obtained with a complete compressor embodying the system is presented."
"The introduction of reversal film — both black-and-white and color — made 16mm photography very acceptable for commercial use. Release prints in quantity were a problem. New printing equipment had to be designed and built, and new materials and techniques had to be improved. This paper will describe the methods used by The Calvin Company for producing high-quality release prints in quantity at the present time."
"The rotating mirror is magnetically suspended in a high vacuum and spun by a rotating magnetic field. The mirror is accelerated to full speed in a way similar to that of the armature in an induction motor, but at running speed it performs as an armature of a synchronous motor. The frequency of the rotating field is determined by a piezoelectrically controlled circuit. Also it is free of hunting. The maximum rotational speed of the mirror is determined only by the strength of the mirror. Mirrors are described which rotate at 20,000 rps."
"The Standard committee has continued to function with the type of organization and in accordance with the policies described in the preceding report.1 This, the final report of the present Committee, includes not only a review of the work of the past two years, but also observations regarding the organization and policies of the Committee in the light of past experience."
"High-speed photographic methods used with commercially available moving film cameras are reviewed in this paper. Careful planning in regard to field size, reference lines, background and timing as well as other factors can contribute a great deal toward producing films which furnish a maximum of useful information. Special techniques employed in analysis can likewise simplify the task of data reduction. Some of these methods are illustrated."
"The Simplex Model PB-600 contains all facilities required for operation from any of the standard sources of television signal. It projects on the theater screen a full-size television picture of the highest quality compatible with the present state of the art. The system combines simplicity in installation, convenience in maintenance and reliability in operation. This paper describes the circuitry and mechanical features of the system components, and presents the design considerations which governed the development."
"A simple dynamic method of measuring the value of print-through and then a method of reducing it below audibility by application of a supersonic erase bias during playback are described."
"This is a report on a research program sponsored by the military services for the past four years, dedicated to production of 16mm informational films."
"The considerable number of technical and progress reports issued by the Instructional Film Research Program at The Pennsylvania State College for 1948–50 are reviewed. The results of the research are reported and assessed particularly as to their possible meaning for other production as well as for instructional films."
"The following topics are dealt with: field intensity measurement; standard measuring method; symbols, units and abbreviations; methods of measurement; antenna design; antenna gain measurements; associated measuring equipment; measurements on production equipment; measurement precautions and factors affecting measurement accuracy."
"This standard applies to the following types of devices designed for operation above 600 volts whether for indoor or outdoor service. Air switches such as disconnecting, grounding, etc., for manual or automatic operation. Air interrupter switches. Insulator units and bus supports."
"This standard applies to the following types of devices designed for operation above 600 volts whether for indoor or outdoor service. (a) Fuses (see paragraph 25-50). (b) Fuse cutouts (see paragraph 25-63). (c) Fuse parts of combined equipment."
"Presents the title page of the proceedings record."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"The “Digest of Literature on Dielectrics” is an annual publication of the Conference on Electrical Insulation, Volume XVI lists articles in the field of Dielectrics which appeared in 1952 and a few in earlier years."
"Primarily, progress in the dielectrics field is dependent on development of new materials and improvements in control and processing of old ones. It is as a result of these efforts that valuable studies and applications of dielectric properties are able to be made. Adequate instrumentation to allow precise and accurate enough measurements is also important."
"Two excellent books dealing with the general problem of measurements have been published. Harris (1) thoroughly treats electrical standards and methods and instruments for the measurement of voltage, current, impedance, power, energy, frequency, and waveform at low frequencies. Terman and Pettit (2) ably present a comprehensive study of measurement fundamentals covering the frequency range from direct current through microwaves."
"No fundamental changes in dielectric theory have occurred during the past year although certain advances in detail and generalization have been made. An investigation of the influence of molecular shape (1) on the dielectric constant of polar liquids has led to a modification of Onsager's equation. Dipole moment values deduced from the new equation agree rather better with the gas values. The remaining discrepancy of some 5–15% is thought to reflect the limit of accuracy possible with a purely electrostatic theory. A somewhat similar problem has been treated by Frood and Dekkar (2) who have extended the simple Onsager theory of the dielectric constant of polar materials to the case in which the dipole is not a mathematical point dipole at the center of the cavity. This involves, in particular, a somewhat more detailed consideration of the reaction field but does not lead to any change in the formula for the dielectric constant."
"In this review a year ago a good deal of space was devoted to an extensive development by Heller (1951) of a “steady-state” theory of breakdown of solids. Almost simultaneously W. Franz developed a similar theory, reports of which appeared in German journals in January (1) and June (2) of 1952. The underlying ideas of the work of Franz are in most instances very close to those of Heller, so that the present review will occupy itself with a discussion of the points of difference In the two works, and with some account of the features of both which distinguish them from earlier theories."
"During 1952 most of the published literature on barium titanate consisted in refinements or confirmation of previous data. The precise structure of BaTiO3 and the theory of its ferroelectricity are still open questions. The answer to the latter will probably not come until the structure is completely resolved. A noticeable shifting of emphasis to other non-titanate perovskites was observed, and important results are forthcoming."
"The Table of Dipole Moments is subdivided into three main groups: a - Inorganic Compounds listed alphabetically according to formula; b - Metalorganic Compounds listed according to name; and c - Organic Compounds. The list of Organic Compounds is further subdivided into groups of related compounds preceded by a general list arranged according to the chemical alphabet."
"The purpose of this review is to present only those developments in the field of synthetic plastic insulation judged to be of interest to electrical and electronic engineers, and physicists. The non-electrical phases of high polymer technology are adequately summarized elsewhere (1, 2)."
"This year has seen the emergence into prominence of several new types of synthetic rubbers. Although the discoveries leading to them date some time back; they have only become important as possible competitors in the field of elastomers this year. Among them are vulcollan (1), chlorosulfonated polyethylene (2,3,4), and fluorocarbon rubbers. None of the new materials is yet important in insulation, and it is at present difficult to predict just how important they may become."
"The literature on insulating films appearing in 1952 is summarized in this Chapter. As in last year's Digest, the Chapter includes In its expanded scope references on paper, fabrics and yarns composed of cellulose and other fibers as well as plastic films."
"Massey (1) has made a comprehensive contribution in a three-part paper “The Deterioration of Transformer Oil”. Though, his discussion is based largely on. British Standard 148–1951 for transformer and switch oils, the opinions and conclusions are broadly applicable. Part I discusses transformer design, construction, and operation; and the relation of these factors to oxidation of transformer oil. Part II is a discussion, of the effect of transformer construction materials on the rate of oil deterioration. Accelerated oxidation tests were made at 150°C. using a modification of BS148. Service condition tests were made at 80°C. and 100°C. in glass containers. The transformer materials tested included about all the metals and non-metals used in transformer construction. Part III Is an assessment of BS148; and a discussion of means of improving transformer oil stability. It is concluded that, when carefully done, BS148 is a satisfactory transformer oil oxidation test. With regard to improvement of oxidation stability of transformer oils, it is said that further improvement through present refining processes is unlikely; and that when severe conditions occur, such as transformer operation at high temperature with access of air to the oil, the use of an oxidation inhibitor in the oil is a logical means of attaining increased oxidation stability. Broadly useful in Part III are discussions, with respect to BS148, of the relation between sludge formation and Wijs iodine value, and of the mechanism of oxidation catalysis in transformer oil of solid and oil soluble forms of copper. It was the most active oxidation catalyst of all the transformer materials tested."
"Samples of spark plugs composed of sintered alumina have been tested at low and high voltages up to 900°C. by Railton (1). It was hoped that the experiments would lead to the development of a standard test method. Materials composed chiefly of alumina may have resistivities at high temperatures appreciably higher than porcelain or fused quartz."
"Data on photoconductive effects have been masterfully assembled by Moss (1) in a book entitled “Photoconductivity in the Elements”. The electrical and optical properties of twelve nonmetallic elements are considered. Much of the material represents original work by the author published here for the first time. About one-third of the book is devoted to a summary of theoretical topics. The bibliography of relevant publications enhances the value of this book to workers in this rapidly developing field."
"Hall (1), in considering the electronic structure of diamond, uses the theory of equivalent orbitals. Such a description of each orbital is localized and corresponds to one of the CC bonds. For diamond, it was found that energies can be expressed as an explicit function of the co-ordinates in reciprocal space. The results are compared with those obtained by Kimball, using the cell method, and the agreement is good."
"Welker (1) reports on the semiconducting properties of compounds of elements of Group III of the periodic system (Al, Ga, In) with elements of Group V (P, As, Sb). Predictions of their electrical properties based on bonding considerations agree well with the experimental results. Several properties of these compounds surpass those of elements of Group IV; thus the electron mobility of InSb has been measured to be as high as 25,000 cm.2/volt-sec."
"A comprehensive discussion of ferrites is given by Fairweather, Roberts, and Welch (1). Following a description of the physical and chemical structure of the ferrites, and of their preparation, an outline of Neel's theory of ferromagnetism and of the Kramers-Anderson theory of superexchange spin coupling is given. Semiconducting properties are also discussed."
"A series of papers given at a symposium on October 12–14, 1950, at Pocono Manor, form the basis for a book entitled “Imperfections in Nearly Perfect Crystals” (1). This subject has important implications for many aspects of the theory of solids, including electrical and optical properties of ionic crystals, diffusion phenomena, etc. The stimulating discussions accompanying the papers pointedly indicate the state of our knowledge, as well as the existence of major deficiencies. The conference and the book represent a major step toward a better understanding of the solid state."
"This guide covers general recommendations for the operation and maintenance of indoor, openly-ventilated, dry type distribution and power transformers with Class B insulation in ratings above 50 kva and above 600 volts, cooled by natural draft or forced draft.The successful operation of these transformers is dependent on proper installation, loading and maintenance as well as on proper design and manufacture. As with all electric apparatus, neglect of certain fundamental requirements may lead to serious trouble, if not to the loss of the equipment. For this reason, a wide distribution of information in regard to the care of dry type transformers is important, and these brief instructions are published for that purpose.In addition to the use of this guide, the manufacturer should be consulted for specific recommendations on special conditions. Also reference may be made to other publications, some of which are listed in the Appendix."
"This paper discusses the need for standard measuring method; FCC requirements, committee action symbols, units and abbreviations; measurement methods; antenna design; antenna gain measurement;s associated measuring equipment; measurements on production equipment; and measurement precautions and factors affecting accuracy of measurement."
"These specifications are intended as a reference for purchasers and users of circuit breakers in the preparation of requests for quotations and as a reference for manufacturers and vendors in submitting bids. These specifications apply to all types of alternating-current power circuit breakers (indoor and outdoor) having an interrupting rating of 50 mva or higher and a voltage rating above 1500 volts. Individual clauses apply to all types except where otherwise indicated. These requirements of necessity include some elements of construction and materials, but are not intended to preclude ingenuity of design or improvement."
"Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record."
"The following topics are dealt with: electric breakdown; dielectric strength; corona erosion breakdown; synthetic fibers; rubber insulation; insulating materials; H insulation; ferroelectric ceramics; ferrite cup core inductors; dielectric constant; and liquids breakdown."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Twenty-five years ago we were satisfied with a simple distinction between “electric” and “thermal” breakdown which made temperature dependence the deciding feature. This standpoint became obsolete when we could show with more discerning methods that actually the alkali halides and other single crystals, while conducting thermally like iron, showed a very complex temperature dependence of the breakdown strength, quite unconnected to thermal instability. It became clear that the destruction of dielectrics under the influence of electric fields may proceed in a great variety of ways and that we will arrive at an understanding only by investigating conduction and breakdown together."
"The increasing use of gaseous dielectrics at elevated pressures is one of the significant trends in high-voltage engineering today. Such compressed gases can be superior to solid and liquid dielectrics and to high vacuum insulation, particularly for long gaps and high voltages."
"The great interest recently shown in the use of sulfur hexafluoride as a high-dielectric-strength gas has been accompanied by serious consideration of the possibility of the production of toxic and corrosive products in the event of electric breakdown of the gas. In this paper we shall formulate a mechanism for the decomposition and report our findings regarding the products formed under various conditions including electric stress below the corona point."
"This paper presents some of the anomalies in the dielectric strength of SF6 as a function of pressure and electrode separation in a non-uniform field. Over certain pressure ranges the a.c. voltage breakdown gradient may remain nearly constant or even increase with increasing electrode spacing rather than decreasing as normally expected. This yields unexpectedly high breakdown strength, characterized by the presence of corona before sparkover. This was termed “Corona Stabilized” breakdown in a recent paper by Camilli, Gordon, and Plump.(1) This phenomenon will be discussed in view of the relation to be shown to exist between the d.c. and a.c. dielectric strength of SF6 and the effect of electrode spacing on the position of the maximum which occurs in the curve of dielectric strength vs. gas pressure. The positive and negative d.c., 60 cycle, and -impulse dielectric strengths as a function of pressure for a given electrode configuration is also illustrated and this information used to indicate the time required for corona stabilization to take place."
"The electrical characteristics of corona in air in the presence of dielectrics have been studied. The high frequency currents generated from this corona were investigated most intensively. The frequency spectra of these corona currents indicates that the corona losses are not confined to any narrow frequency region unless resonance exists due to circuit components. These same types of spectra were observed in point-to-plane corona measurements. It was shown that the nature of the dielectric does not influence the corona characteristics. The corona threshold for these systems have been defined in terms of the corona current vs. applied voltage curves and discussed on the basis of the model set up by Loeb."
"A crucial test of any theory of electrical breakdown is the comparison of observed and predicted temperature dependence of the electric strength. The theories of von Hippel, Seitz, and Callen give the proper temperature dependence at low temperatures (for ionic crystals) but the agreement is lost at high temperature. In order to explain the high temperature region, Fröhlich has adduced another breakdown mechanism which is supposed to cover this region."
"Preliminary experiments have been conducted on the dielectric strength of polyethylene at microwave frequencies, with particular effort directed toward attaining the intrinsic strength. Thermal effects caused by dielectric heating are avoided through single r.f. pulses of microsecond duration."
"The prime function of the A.S.T.M. is the development of practical test standards and specifications for commercial use. Pure research is not one of its objectives, but in devising new standards and revising them to keep pace with improvements in the art, much work of a research nature is required. The A.S.T.M. approach is that of the engineer, whose chief concern is evaluation of breakdown in terms of the use to which the material is to be put. For this he requires standards that involve as simple equipment as possible, are easily reproducible, and consume minimum of testing time."
"This study was carried out in order to establish: the nature of ions in oxidized hydrocarbons, since it was realized that these oxidative ions are different from, those present in a cid-amine-phenol solutions previously studied. As suitable material for the present study oxidized N-heptaldehyde solutions in oil and xylene were chosen; mild oxidation of such solutions yielded samples having marked conductivity."
"One of the major problems in the use of polymeric materials is the degradation of these materials when exposed to certain service conditions. Recognizing this, a basic research program on the mechanism of the degradation of these materials was initiated at the National Bureau of Standards in 1946. The mechanisms of the degradation of polyamides and polystyrene have been studied. Polyvinyl chloride is being studied at the present time. In addition some experiments were made with GE-S rubber and polyethylene. The results of, these experiments are summarized."
"It has been reported-recently by Salvage (1) that the electric strengths of liquid, straight-chain hydrocarbons increase with increase in molecular weight from n-pentane through n-nonane. The purpose of the present work is to verify and investigate more carefully this behavior, and to interpret the results, if possible, in terms of the physical properties of the hydrocarbons."
"Cellulosic materials deteriorate rapidly when exposed to temperatures above 100°C. for any considerable length of time. This limits their usefulness in electrical insulation at elevated temperatures. Synthetic fibers have been proposed as a substitute for cellulose in electrical insulation applications at elevated temperatures."
"A study has been made of insulation deterioration treated as a time rate phenomenon. It is shown that certain dielectric properties (i.e., dielectric strength and dissipation factor) of typical high temperature transformer insulations deteriorate, with time and temperature, in a manner which indicates the presence of two first order chemical reactions. The effects on the properties, due to these reactions may be separated, allowing a much more comprehensive analysis of the aging characteristics of a material. As one consequence, it is possible to define the time temperature-physical property relationship for a given material from the results of a limited number of accelerated aging tests. Justification is thereby provided for extrapolation of accelerated aging results to lower, operating temperatures."
"The experiments described here give further confirmation of the fact that microbiological failure of rubber insulation is caused by the penetration of certain soil fungi."
"At last year's Conference two papers were presented by A. J. Warner and H, G. Nordlin of Federal Telecommunication Laboratories covering research work on the effects of ionizing radiation on high quality insulating materials. This paper summarizes some of the findings made in a continuation of the same studies. The work reported here was sponsored by the Signal Corps Engineering Laboratories, Fort Monmouth, New Jersey."
"We have been studying the direct current conductivity changes in polyethylene during bombardment with photons of energy 1.2 Mev. The effect of this bombardment is to introduce a higher equilibrium conductivity in the material from that present without radiation. This conductivity arises from the additional charge in the material caused by the ionization by the γ rays."
"One of the main considerations in the manufacture of a Class “H” Insulation is the base material which is used as a carrier for the impregnating compound. To be suitable for high temperature electrical insulation, these base materials must be stable both physically and chemically at elevated temperatures up to 300°c."
"From 250 KVA through 2000 KYA, through 15 KV ratings, sealed-in-nitrogen Class H insulated transformers - the largest ever manufactured of sealed dry-type construction - have successfully eliminated fire and explosion hazards, These transformers are the choice of the Factory Insurance Association for indoor usage. A 2000 KVA transformer weighs tons. In its construction, 1100 pounds of glass fiber-silicone laminate, 100 square yards of silicone rubber coated glass cloth and two tons of silicone resin bonded glass fiber covered wire are required. Such usage of silicones forces production from laboratory to large scale production."
"The importance of several problems has been emphasized by advances recently made in the thinking and operating techniques concerned with the maintenance of insulating liquids such as transformer oil. These advances are the direct result of a program of directed research conducted by a large group of power systems cooperating through a clearing-house laboratory and the are based upon the new concept that insulating oils when properly serviced can be given unlimited extension of life free from the formation of sludge or excessive acidity due to oxidation, even in free-breathing transformers."
"The requirements of the Armed Services for dielectric materials at times are very specific. At times they appear contradictory. There are times when they appear to be farfetched and philosophical."
"Ceramics technology is more an art than a science, due to the complexity of chemical systems involved. Even with simple bodies there are major constituents which form solid solutions, mixtures and glassy phases. The major constituents bring in impurities which also form solid solutions, mixtures and glasses; therefore, it is not surprising that the combinations often become too complex for scientific solution. When raw material, processing, firing and finishing variables are considered, we can see that intuition plays a greater part than in many industries."
"Using very good BaTiO3 single crystals, we have investigated the arrangements and movements of the domains. Besides the well known 90° walls we have observed 180° walls very clearly. A 180° wall forms the boundary between two domains polarized at 180° to each other (antiparallel). It turns out, that every so called single domain crystal consists of hundreds of small antiparallel domains, Applying and changing an electric field very slowly, we watched the change of the domain pattern and the behavior of the hysteresis loop at the same time (using a d.c. amplifier for the scope). With this method we have obtained a much better understanding of the creation of domain walls and their motion and also of the quite remarkable shape of the hysteresis loop."
"From the variety of ferromagnetic oxide bodies developed during the last 15 years, a group of three which are of commercial importance is selected: the nickel-zinc- and nickel-copper-zinc ferrites, the manganese-zinc ferrites, and a newly found ferric oxide compound exhibiting a rectangular hysteresis loop."
"Summary form only given. Magnetic amplifiers, under development for nearly four decades, have recently been given new impetus by the development of magnetic materials with near-rectangular hysteresis loops. These amplifiers, now commercially available, have proven themselves suitable for applications which require reliable and rugged amplifiers. Dielectric amplifiers, under development for less than a decade, are being held back in their development by a dearth of suitable dielectric materials. Ferroelectric single crystals are nearly suitable but expensive and difficult to grow, while ferroelectric ceramics are not available with rectangular hysteresis loops. There are two basic magnetic amplifier circuits. The first, called a saturable inductor, is one in which flux changes in a magnetic core produce a voltage which subtracts from the output, or load, voltage. Whenever flux is changing in the magnetic core, a voltage appears in series with the power supply and the load which causes the net load voltage to be near zero. If, during the a.c. cycle, the core reaches saturation, the flux no longer changes, the series voltage disappears, and the full power supply voltage is applied to the load. The input signal to a magnetic amplifier of this type controls the point in the cycle at which saturation occurs. The second type of magnetic amplifier, called a saturable transformer, is one in which flux changes in a magnetic core produce a voltage which supplies the output, or load, voltage. Whenever flux is changing in the magnetic core, a voltage appears across the output winding. If, during the a.c. cycle, the core reaches saturation, the flux no longer changes, and the output voltage disappears. Control of the saturable transformer is thus inverse in logic to the control of the saturable inductor. Similarly, there are two basic types of dielectric amplifiers-one in which current through the dielectric supplies the load current, and one in which the current in the dielectric subtracts from (shunts) the load current. One commonly has not one, but a number of magnetic amplifiers to be operated from a common power supply. Saturable inductor circuits demand more power from the power supply by lowering their circuit impedance. In order for a lowering of impedance to actually provide more power, the internal impedance of the power supply must be still lower. Amplifiers of this type are, therefore, ideally driven from a voltage source and when many are connected to the same power supply, they should be connected in parallel for minimum interaction. The saturable transformer circuits, by a similar line of reasoning, raise their impedance to demand more power, and must be driven by a power supply of still higher internal impedance. They should ideally be driven by a current source, and when many are connected to the sane power supply, they should be connected in series for minimum interaction. Similarly, the dielectric amplifier circuits in which current through the dielectric supplies the load current lower their circuit impedance to demand more power and as such should be connected in parallel to a voltage source, while dielectric amplifier circuits of the other type, wherein current in the dielectric shunts the load current, raise their circuit impedance.to demand more power, and as such should be connected in series with a current source. Magnetic and dielectric amplifiers are at present undergoing intensive development in the quest for more reliable and more rugged amplifiers for communication, computation, and control."
"Storage of binary information in the stationary field of a ferromagnetic ring or a ferroelectric slab promises a neat solution to one of the most vexing problems in the digital computer field, the problem of “remembering” and making available a very large number of binary “words” rapidly and efficiently. The flux remanence and non-linear characteristics of the “rectangular” hysteresis loop simplify the information-retention and the work-selection aspects of the problem tremendously."
"As part of a research program on the microwave dielectric properties of compressed gases, absorption in NH3, arising from the inversion band at 1.25 cm, was studied at a wavelength of 11 cm. Especially careful measurements made at a pressure of 10 cm Hg, which from previous evidence is just below the region where an apparent shift of the inversion lines toward zero frequency begins, gave an absorption approximately 40 percent higher than that calculated, from the theoretical contributions of all the undisturbed lines. The experimental method and the calculations are briefly described, and possible reasons for the discrepancy, are discussed."
"From large single crystals of ice, grown by means of the earlier published method1, square plates were cut with the major surfaces either parallel or perpendicular to the optic c axis. The dielectric constants were then measured as a function of the temperature and of the frequency, as well as the loss angles. The dielectric constant εc measured in the direction of the c axis was found to be slightly larger than the dielectric constant εIc measured in a direction perpendicular to the c axis. The relative difference εc - εIc/εc at 1 Kc/sec is about 15% for -50°C, 12% for -20C and about 8% for -40°C. The behavior of the dielectric constants and of the loss angles σc and σic versus frequency is in agreement with earlier observations on polycrystalline ice. The static dielectric constants as well as the relaxation times were computed from the experimental data and their behavior versus the temperature found to be in agreement with the results of other investigators and with the theoretical predicted behavior. A complete paper will soon be published in the Helvetica Physics Acts."
"This work is an extension of that reported in 1950 by E. L. C. Larson and G. M. L. Sommerman. At that time, it was shown that photographic records of impulse ionization in liquids could be obtained, by placing dry photographic paper and impregnated paper pressboard between; disk electrodes, immersing them in the liquid to be tested, and applying a single impulse voltage wave of a magnitude somewhat less than that required for puncturing the press-board. The radial progress of impulse ionization streamers from the electrode edges (analogous to Lichtenberg figures in gases) was shown to depend on the chemical constitution of the liquid, and, for chlorinated liquids, on the polarity of the applied voltage."
