"The index contains an entry for all items that appeared during the year."
"This listing includes technical, sociological, economic, and general papers. Numbers refer to chronological list."
"This index covers all nontechnical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"The Institute endeavors to keep on hand a supply of back copies of the PROCEEDINGs for sale for the convenience of those who do not have complete files. However, some issues are out of print and cannot be provided. All available back issues of the PROCEEDINGS OF THE IRE are listed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Measurements of the loop impedance of an amplitude-modulated injection-locked uhf magnetron looking from the transmission line toward the magnetron are presented. The loop impedance is computed from the voltage standing-wave ratio and the position of the minimum-voltage plane of the injection current reflected from the magnetron output loop. While the plate voltage is varied, the changes of the loop impedance are observed under specific conditions which are important for the proper performance of the resonant injection system. Analyses of the phenomena occurring in the output transmission line of the synchronized magnetron are described. Matched and decoupled resistive loads as well as a reactive load are presented to the magnetron at the high-power end of the modulation cycle. It is demonstrated that the load impedance seen by the magnetron steadily and substantially changes during an amplitude-modulation cycle. However, at the low-power end of a 100-per cent modulation cycle the load is constant, and the value of it for a given type of magnetron with a predetermined setting of the magnetron tuner depends only upon the carrier frequency. The changes of load during the modulation cycle are discussed. These are graphically represented by a special kind of circular diagram."
"A microwave sweep oscillator has been developed which sweeps the range of 8,500-9,500 mc. The RF amplitude over this band is maintained constant to within ± 0.1 db by means of a ferrite modulator unit connected in an amplitude-stabilizing feedback circuit. In addition to providing amplitude control, the ferrite unit also provides amplitude modulation at 1,000 cps of the swept cw source. The generator sweeps the band in about 1.5 seconds, making practical the presentation of network transmission characteristics on an oscilloscope."
"A forced-aircooled power tetrode capable of delivering 1,200 watts output in television service at frequencies up to 900 mc is described. Particular features of the design include a coaxial electrode structure, novel metal-to-ceramic seals, and a unipotential matdx-type cathode having a 120-volt heater. A discussion is included of the special parts-making techniques and precision assembly methods in which radio-frequency heating is used together with accurate jigging to maintain uniform electrode spacings. A typical 900-mc circuit for use with the tube is described and tube performance data as a cathode-driven amplifier are given."
"A brief history of high-power cw klystron development and a classification of types of klystron are followed by a description of the three-cavity, gridless klystron amplifier with magnetic focusing, in general terms, and the Eimac 5-kw klystron for UHF-TV in more detail. This tube has cavities which are partly outside the vacuum system and contain ceramic \"windows.\" The advantages of the klystron over the conventional negative-grid type of tube are reviewed from the standpoint of performance, and the main operational features are noted."
"This paper describes a theoretical and experimental investigation of a special form of klystron which seems to have many important uses as a frequency-modulated oscillator. Basically, it is a single-cavity, two-gap klystron with a floating drift tube between the two gaps. By applying a separate voltage to the floating drift tube it is possible to produce frequency modulation by varying the transit angle between the gaps in a similar manner to the frequency modulation produced in a reflex klystron. An examination of the theory indeed indicates that the theory of the floating-drifttube klystron (FDTK) and the reflex klystrons are essentially identical. One merely replaces the transit angle wherever it appears in reflex theory by the same number divided by a factor H, where H is the ratio of the effective voltages at the two gaps. However, in spite of this identity of theory, in practice the FDTK should have higher efficiency and power-handling capabilities merely because of its geometry. In addition, the absence of the reflection problem, i. e., of electrons transversing the same gap twice, eliminates all the difficulties connected with multiple transits which produce hysteresis, mode distortion, and the like, which are characteristic of many reflex klystrons. This prognosis fulfilled in the tube which was constructed."
"The harmonic distortion introduced by a reflex klystron used as a frequency-modulated transmitter is computed. The method used is to make a power-series expansion of the theoretical expression of frequency as a function of reflector voltage, and then to relate the coefficients of the power series to the harmonic-distortion components. The design of a reflex klystron for low distortion is briefly discussed. A novel technique was used to measure the harmonic-distortion components experimentally. The experimental results were in good agreement with the theoretical predictions. The distortion is low enough for the reflex klystron to be useful for many transmitter and relay applications."
"A qualitative and quantitative description is given of the interaction phenomena between density-modulated groups of electrons and a field which permits them to cross the gap of a resonant cavity twice. Based on the method of Lagrangian parameters, resonance conditions of transit time and field parameters are derived for maximum energy transfer. The theory is extended to account for the specific behavior of the reflex resnatron in terms of efficiency, amplitude modulation, and bandwidth. The results are compared with experiment."
"A new design for a resnatron based on the axial flow of the electron stream has resulted in the development of a tube for uhf. The tube has been tested up to 29-kw cw power output at 420 mc with efficiencies from 45 to 75 per cent and power gains in excess of 10 db. The novel and general features of the mechanical design are described and the performance characteristics are given in curve and tabular form."
"The details of techniques of measurements and the dynamic results obtained with a uhf triode are discussed. Performance characteristics in the vhf and uhf television bands are covered, and a comparison of gain and noise figures made with tubes now available for vhf amplifier service."
"An approximate triode theory has been organized in terms of the operating parameters and electrode spacings so that, with the aid of graphical representations, the tube designer can readily and very quickly predict the RF performance of a grounded-grid amplifier or the effect thereon of changes in design parameters. It is thus possible to minimize the experimental work required to achieve a desired performance. The effects of changes in design parameters are shown by illustrative examples, and a study of these examples confirms that substantial improvements in the performance of present-day tubes cannot be obtained by minor changes in one or two parameters. Significant improvements may only be obtained by pushing all design parameters to the limit of practicability. The performance predicted by this theory is compared with experimental measurements of other workers with satisfactory agreement. It is concluded that the theory is quite adequate for design work."
"A relation similar to the familiar Star-Delta transformation is developed for linear active networks. Transformation formulas are derived for triode circuits under both negative-grid and positive-grid conditions. The result can be extended to tetrodes and pentodes. Applications of the analysis to vacuum tubes and circuits are given for illustration, with special considerations to uhf problems."
"A tuner covering the uhf television band continuously and having essentially constant selectivity over all of this band is described. A unique feature is that the tuner employs no moving contacts in the tuned circuits, and so avoids the well-known contact troubles. The circuit consists of a double-tuned preselector, a crystal mixer, a triode oscillator, and a cascode-type first intermediate stage. The two preselector circuits and the oscillator employ balanced parallel-rod constructions, each tuned with a movable capacitor element having surfaces shaped to give a linear displacement-frequency characteristic. Shielded compartments are provided for the three tuned circuits. The tuner input matches a 300-ohm antenna, and the output is suitable for feeding the conventional \"40-mc\" intermediate-frequency amplifier of a television receiver. Measurements of the performance show the noise figure to be 15 db or better over the band, the image rejection at least 43 db, and the transadmittance (which is a measure of sensitivity) 11 db, or better, above 1 millimho. Oscillator signal at the antenna terminals averages approximately 43 db below 1 volt."
"The 6AJ4 is a nine-pin miniature, grounded-grid triode designed to operate as the radio-frequency amplifier in uhf television receivers. This paper reviews the development of this tube, treats the special problems encountered in extending the useful frequency range of a miniature tube to beyond 890 mc, and discusses the methods employed in arriving at a useful solution. Special attention is given the problem of isolation between input and output circuits. The techniques of the measurements involved in the development of this tube are also discussed."
"Single-crystal control of a multiplicity of uhf channel frequencies is obtained by periodic phase control of a variable oscillator. Its output consists of a spectrum of harmonically related frequencies. The bandwidth of the spectrum envelope can be kept so narrow that the amplitude of any single desired frequency of the very large number of available ones is emphasized up to 40 db over the amplitudes of the adjacent harmonics. Suppressions of the undesired frequencies in this order of magnitude are obtained in oscillators which cover a frequency range of from 250 to 900 mc and are simultaneously excited at a crystal-controlled fundamental frequency in the range of from 1 to 10 mc. Thus, utilizing one single triode this uhf oscillator may put out any desired one of a very large number of crystal-controlled frequencies. It is continuously tunable over a wide frequency range, acting as though it were electronically detented."
"A 6λ/4 hybrid ring was modified by replacing the 3λ/4 long arm, with aλ/4 line and a frequency insensitive π phase shift. Calculations are shown for input and transfer admittances, insertion loss, and the effect of capacitance across the loads. Some experimental results are given and applications for the wide-band hybrid ring are suggested."
"After a preliminary discussion of the propagation of waves in an unbounded ferromagnetic medium, and in waveguides containing ferrites, the results of an experimental study of the propagation characteristics of waveguides containing ferrites are presented for some samples of commercially available ferrites. Some of the applications of ferrites to microwave circuitry are briefly described."
"Certain ferromagnetic materials such as ferrites have considerable loss at frequencies in excess of 30 mc. This loss can be controlled by producing a magnetic field in the material by external means, such as an electromagnet. This principle is used in the small electrically controlled variable attenuator for coaxial lines which is described. The performance of the attenuator at ultra-high frequencies is given for a specific attenuator using a number of suitable materials. The design and applications of the attenuator are also discussed."
"Faraday rotation in ferrites at microwave frequencies is applied experimentally to a new magnetometer technique expected to attain extreme sensitivity. The microwave output voltage is linearly, related to the magnetic field. Sensitivity is a function of microwave carrier level, length and initial permeability of the ferrite rotator. Experimental response curves are given for two different rotator lengths. Magnetic increments of the order of one gamma have been detected. The prospect of attaining the extreme sensitivity inherent in the microwave magnetometer principle suggests the magnetic detection possibilities of a micro-magnetometer."
"Coaxial transmission line and waveguide terminations are described which employ a double-slug transformer and a lossy dielectric load to provide an impedance match. Electromagnetic waves reflected from the load are canceled out by adjusting the positions of the two dielectric transformer slugs relative to the load, by means of bakelite rods which extend axially through the end of the termination. The terminations can be matched over wide frequency ranges; they are simple in operation and construction, having no critical dimensions."
"A description is given of a surface-wave transmissionline unit developed to meet a requirement for an efficient, easy to install and maintain antenna feed line."
"Recent experimental evidence indicates that the measured gain of pyramidal electromagnetic horns may be considerably in error if the measurements are carried out at short distances, and the aperture to aperture separation between horns is used in the gain formula G=(4πR/λ) √PR/PT. Further experimental verification of this effect has been obtained and a theory developed which is in good quantitative agreement with present experimental data and demonstrates the physical reasons why the previous \"far field\" criterion of 2D2/λ is invalid. Curves are presented from which the error in gain measured at any distance may be obtained and applied as a correction."
"UHF radio-relay transmission is affected by atmospheric conditions, obstructions, distance, antenna height, and path clearances. It is important that paths be engineered with adequate clearance. A nomograph is presented for rapid determination of the required clearance from path parameters and operating frequency. Various types of transmission paths with means of minimizing fading are discussed, and a method is derived for determining from the path profile the required spacing of receiving antennas for space diversity. A single-hop system is evaluated in terms of equipment parameters and displayed on a level diagram. This is followed by a discussion of the system performance and reliability of a number of hops in tandem."
"The design features of an experimental 8,000-8,500-mc radio relay are reviewed. The technical innovations mentioned are the result of research and engineering accomplished for the design of a military radio-relay system. A duplexing antenna system comprised of a waveguide hybrid tee, a waveguide mast structure, an off-center fed parabolic reflector antenna assembly, and a waveguide cavity preselector for the receiver is described. A mechanically and electronically tuned cw communications magnetron, which provides a carrier power in excess of 50 watts, is included and is capable of being frequency modulated. A unique frequency stabilization circuit maintains the carrier center frequency, improves the linearity of the modulation, and reduces the carrier-noise frequency variations."
"A method is presented for the measurement of auto- or cross-correlation functions of wide-band uhf signals. A novel method of frequency translation is used to obtain a transformation of the spectrum into a more convenient form for computation. This method involves the generation of a line spectrum of local oscillator frequencies throughout the bandwidth of the signal, and subsequent summing of the frequency differences into a narrower band of video signals containing all the coffelative characteristics of the original signal. A theoretical analysis of the operation is presented along with experimental results obtained with this correlator on a 200-mc bandwidth noise signal centered at 1.1 kmc."
"Reliable signals have been received at distances of several hundred miles at frequencies of 500 and 3,700 mc. The median signal levels are 50 to 90 db below the free-space field, but are hundreds of db (in one case 700 db) stronger than the value predicted by the classical theory based on a smooth spherical earth with a standard atmosphere. Antenna gains and beam widths are maintained to a first approximation and no long delayed echoes have been found. The experimental results are compared with other available data, and it appears that roughly the same median signal levels are obtained for frequencies from 40 to 3,700 mc."
"A method is described for predicting diurnal variation in uhf field strengths, which is based on the micrometeorology governing the nighttime refractive-index profiles. Using surface meteorological data from past years, predictions are made of the probability distribution of the diurnal field variations to be expected on 100 and 1,000 mc over CRPL links in Colorado. The predictions are compared with field-strength observations taken in 1952, and the agreement is encouraging."
"Field strength was recorded for 22 months over a non-optical path, at a distance of 33 miles. Over-all variation was approximately 12 db in winter and 33 db in summer, with relatively small variation in the median level. On this transmission path, fading 10 db or more below the median occurred during the summer months and was about evenly divided between daylight and darkness for the normal hours of operation."
"A rough, perfectly reflecting surface is first specified by the statistics of noise theory. If illuminated by a plane electromagnetic wave, such a surface would reflect statistically predictable fields. An attempt is made to formulate the problem of predicting the fields in terms of the statistics of the surface. The result is a series of integral expressions in which averages of the currents induced in the surface appear as unknown functions. Owing to mathematical complexities, these expressions are not solved for the average currents; however, a qualitative discussion is given of a known formula for the specular reflection coefficient of a gently rolling surface."
"The utility of the concept of transmissionloss in radio-propagation analysis is explored. The transmission loss of a radio system is defined to be the ratio of the power radiated from the transmitting antenna to the resulting signal power available from a loss-free receiving antenna. After discussing some methods of measuring transmission loss, its calculation for representative systems is discussed. It is shown that a measure of transmission loss often adopted, namely the attenuation relative to the free-space value, sometimes leads to errors and confusion in the presentation of the results of measurements and in applications to radio systems; the use of the over-all transmission loss of a system avoids these pitfalls. A discussion is given of the expected variation with time (fading) of the transmission loss expected for radio systems involving ionospheric or tropospheric propagation. This discussion involves the theory of the Rayleigh distribution and its limitations in such applications. A definition is then derived for the effective noise figure of a radio system which includes the external noise picked up on the receiving antenna. This definition is used to explain the method of determining the maximum range of a radio system. Finally a discussion is given of the maximum range of a radio system as limited by interference from other radio signals plus noise rather than from noise alone."
"A survey is made of the progress to date in measuring current above 100 mc. The types of vacuum thermocouples available for ultra-high frequency current measurement are discussed and the several methods of calibration are reviewed. A calorimeter method and a thermistor bridge method are presented. The advantages and limitations of the calibrating methods are brought out. The electrodynamic method is particularly suited to large currents, the calorimeter method to medium currents, and the thermistor bridge method to small currents. The importance of obtaining agreement between methods that do not depend on the same principles is emphasized."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper reviews briefly some of the recent developments in the field of automata and nonnumerical computation. A number of typical machines are described, including logic machines, game-playing machines and learning machines. Some theoretical questions and developments are discussed, such as a comparison of computers and the brain, Turing's formulation of computing machines and von Neumann's models of self-reproducing machines."
"Automatic telephone switching and digital computation have much in common. Both rely upon discrete rather than continuous devices. Development of recent switching systems with a close functional resemblance to large digital computers has increased this overlap. The next big step in telephone switching should be towards electronics. In making this step, switching scientists and engineers can be much helped by modern electronic computer technology. To be successful, they must also contribute to this technology."
"A simplified stored-program digital computer is described in order to demonstrate the fundamentals of computer programming. Using eight instructions, a number of basic techniques are illustrated by means of programs which perform elementary arithmetic and logical computations. The stored-program computer's capacity for modifying its own program is demonstrated."
"Along with advances in hardware design, the programmer is making advances in programming techniques. These new techniques take advantage of the high-speed checked operation of the computer to perform the routine work of programming. It is quite conceivable that these techniques will exert a strong influence on computer design in the future."
"Analogue and digital computing machines are both capable of solving numerous types of mathematical problems. Nevertheless, these two kinds of machines mechanize the solutions in fundamentally different ways. The problem of simulation in real time is used as a basis for comparing the characteristics of the two kinds of machines as regards basic units, size, speed, precision, accuracy, stability, input-output, flexibility and future possibilities. The mathematical operations discussed include addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, evaluation of polynomials and other functions, square root extraction, and the solution of ordinary differential equations."
"In designing any new piece of equipment a choice has to be made from a number of alternatives. Rather than just enumerating the features incorporated in the IBM Type 701 Computer, an attempt is made to record the reasons for their choice. Emphasis is given to the features which are believed to be new. These include improved arithmetic and logical facilities, as well as the methods developed for controlling the extensive input and output equipment directly from the stored program."
"The IBM Electronic Data Processing Machines Type 701 and Associated Equipment constitute a large scale electronic digital calculator. These machines, which incorporate the newest devices for input, output, and storage, are currently in production at the IBM Plant 2, Poughkeepsie, N.Y. This paper presents a general engineering description of the 701 with emphasis on what are believed to be new techniques and concepts."
"The arithmetic element of the IBM Type 701 Computer contains a number of innovations, both in circuits and in logic, which distinguish it from that used in other high-speed, parallel, binary computers. The most significant of these is the storage element used in the arithmetic registers, in place of the more usual flip-flop or trigger circuit. Use of this new element enables a number of simplifications to be introduced in the methods of executing instructions."
"The SWAC is an ultra-high-speed digital computer utilizing a Williams tube memory, an auxiliary magnetic drum memory and a punched card input-output system. A general description of the functional organization of the computer is given together with a brief discussion of the various commands and how they are executed. Some of the special engineering features of the computer are described, in particular those relating to the electrostatic and magnetic drum memories. Finally a short survey of the types of problems solved by the computer during the last year is presented."
"This article gives a comprehensive view of an electronic digital computer located at the National Bureau of Standards in Washington, D.C. The machine, called SEAC, has been in almost continuous operation since it was dedicated in the spring of 1950. It features a novel type of \"transformer-coupled dynamic circuitry\" and makes extensive use of germanium diodes. SEAC is a synchronous machine, operating at a one megacycle repetition rate. It is essentially serial in operation, employs both acoustic and electrostatic memories, and operates in either the three- or four-address mode at the programmer's discretion. This description covers the specifications of the machine, its logical, electrical, and physical structure, and finally, its performance over the last three years."
"This paper describes several of the circuits developed at the Naval Research Laboratory for its electronic digital computer, the NAREC. These circuits, which include inverters, flip-flops, counters, steppers, pulse generators, adders and comparators, employ crystal diodes where practical for all non-linear functions and use vacuum tubes only where inversion or amplification is required. All circuits are designed to provide low impedance output signals whose maximum and minimum levels are held to prescribed dc potentials. The circuits are packaged in standard 4-tube plug-in chassis in arrangements which make these units functional building blocks of the computer."
"The diagnostic programs used for maintenance of the ILLIAC, the University of Illinois' digital computer, are described. The uses of diagnostic programs for fault detection, fault isolation, and periodic computer servicing are discussed. The characteristics of the \"leapfrog\" program, both as a detection program and as an isolation program, are described in detail. Descriptions of one of the more complex isolation programs and of a typical servicing program are given. Pertinent characteristics of the ILLIAC and techniques of fault isolation are also included."
"The design and construction of a special-purpose electronic computer designed especially for logistics data-processing is described. The special characteristics required in this type of computer are listed together with the major design features incorporated to provide the particular characteristics. The logic of the computer is covered briefly and the method of programming is indicated. Constructional details as they affect operation and maintenance of the computer are also discussed."
"The Remington Rand Electronic Computer, Type 409-2, does computations by arithmetic steps in sequence with a unique self-proving feature. Parallel inputs to ten vacuum-tube decades are added or directly subtracted into a 22-column Accumulator. The Accumulator is connected in a ring so that a number or pair of numbers can be shifted to any position. Decimal positions are automatically handled by a Decimal Computer. Signs are handled algebraically. The total electron tube complement includes 1476 vacuum tubes and 1128 cold-cathode gas diodes. Most of these are designed and manufactured especially for computer use. Inputs are brought to the Accumulator, using a Call Line for each complete number, from three types of storage: 1. Variables from a tabulating card reading block of Sensing Switches; 2. Constants from manually settable Constant Switches; and 3. Intermediate results from Storage Relays. Outputs are delivered to Punching Storage from Intermediate Storage, in one or two blocks. Results are punched into the same tabulating card or following cards, as may be desired. Programming is directed by interchangeable Plug Boards. There are 40 Calculating Steps and 6 special steps: Clear, Set I, Set II, Sort I, Sort II and Trip. Each Calculating Step has 5 addresses and a process designation: 1st Operand; Process (+, -,×,÷); 2nd Operand; Result; Next Step if Result is \"plus\"; and next step if Result is \"minus."
"The use of magnetic drum memory in an automatic telephone switching office is described. A capacitive scanner acts as a time-division connector through which information generated by subscribers' telephone sets is conveyed to storage on magnetic drums. Information thus accumulated is combined with \"permanent\" information on the magnetic drums, processed in accordance with built-in programs and dispatched to control call switching circuits. Technical feasibility of this system has been demonstrated by the construction and successful operation of a large-scale laboratory model."
"The design of circuits composed of logical elements may be facilitated by auxiliary machines. This paper describes one such machine, made of relays, selector switches, gas diodes, and germanium diodes. This machine (called the relay circuit analyzer) has as inputs both a relay contact circuit and the specifications the circuit is expected to satisfy. The analyzer (1) verifies whether the circuit satisfies the specifications, (2) makes systematic attempts to simplify the circuit by removing redundant contacts, and also (3) obtains mathematically rigorous lower bounds for the numbers and types of contacts needed to satisfy the specifications. A special feature of the analyzer is its ability to take advantage of circuit specifications which are incompletely stated. The auxiliary machine method of doing these and similar operations is compared with the method of coding them on a general-purpose digital computer."
"The error reduction scheme employed by the Bendix Digital Differential Analyzer, which utilizes both ternary inter-communication between integrators and trapezoidal integration, is described. A device for the variation and automatic resetting of initial conditions is discussed together with an example illustrating its operation. Finally, techniques employed for minimizing the size of the computer are considered."
"The aim of this paper is to place on a more rigorous basis the application of two-valued logic to digital computing circuits. To this end we study the formal properties of various logical nets some of which represent such circuits to a useful degree. A logical net is an array constructed from two primitive elements: a \"stroke element,\" by means of which circuit components performing logical functions may be represented, and a \"delay element,\" used in the representation of memory components. With each net is associated a set of equations useful in studying the behavior of that net. Various types of nets (well-behaved, deterministic, well-formed) are precisely defined and properties of each type are correlated with properties of the associated sets of equations. The relations between the various types of nets are investigated and some study is made of the kinds of operations performed by each. Finally, the question: \"To what class of nets do digital computer circuits correspond?\" is discussed."
"Boolean algebra is the algebra of classes or sets of objects. It consists essentially of systematic rules for the use of the fundamental connectives \"or,\" \"and,\" \"not.\" The relevance of Boolean algebra to the information-handling field stems from the fact that, in digital systems, information can be represented only by means of sets of discrete physical states of the machinery involved. This paper has been prepared principally to present an adequate mathematical basis for the application of Boolean algebra to the study of information-handling systems. An important purpose of this application is the minimization of the physical elements required in information-handling (or computing) circuits. Consequently, some fundamental methods of simplifying Boolean functions are explained in detail. These methods make possible the unconditional minimization of what are called here \"elementary\" functions, but of these functions only. Because much of the symbolism and many of the methods in use at the present time are far from uniform, another purpose of this paper has been to put into use an adequate and consistent symbolism, to provide needed fundamental definitions and to derive all theorems and propositions required from the basic postulates. The treatment is essentially an algebraic one. The methods are those of abstract algebra rather than of mathematical logic. The dualization laws have been systematically used to derive fundamental principles which cannot conveniently be obtained in any other way. The application of Boolean algebra to the design of computer circuits is illustrated by actual examples."
"As a result of decisions to perform all logical operations in germanium diode circuits, all storage in delay lines and only amplification in tubes, there has been developed a digital computer circuitry whose high degree of standardization offers several advantages. Manufacturing, stocking replacements, and troubleshooting are simplified by having only two types of plug-in packages; moreover very thorough engineering study of these circuits was feasible. The possibilities for constructing logical functions are completely general and each tube can drive gate circuits associated with 14 others."
"This paper first considers design techniques of widespread use in the field today. As an example of these techniques, design values for the circuits of the Moore School Automatic Computer (MSAC) are presented. Some recently developed design techniques are then presented which offer marked improvements. These techniques are compared with those presented earlier by listing design values for comparable performance. The paper also considers some of the basic philosophies involved in the choice of elements for logical \"OR-AND-OR\" pyramids. It concludes with a description of reduced circuits which, when combined with the new techniques, make possible a 50-fold saving in power."
"Many types of storage and memory systems have been proposed for use in digital computing systems. This survey paper discusses only the various systems whose reaction time is faster than hurman reaction time, employing a historical approach to the subject. Criteria for evaluation are discussed, and comparisons given among the different systems as to general applicability, ease of construction and use, speed of operation, latency time, memory span, and economy."
"A coincident-current magnetic-core matrix memory was built giving random access to any of 10,000 bits in a few μsec. The memory cores, of a diameter less than 1/16″, are made on an automatic press from especially synthesized magnetic ceramic material with rectangular hysteresis loop. Automatic test techniques permit rapid sorting to insure uniformity of the magnetic properties of the cores. The memory array is driven by two ten-by-ten dc biased magnetic switches which reduce the number of address-selecting access vacuum tube drivers to 40 and the required driving current to the order of a few hundred milliamperes. The read-out signal originating from a winding linking all 10,000 cores is freed from the disturbing contributions of partially excited cores on the selected lines by integration over a period of time in which these cores are subject to equal and opposite magnetizing forces. The principles and techniques evolved for this experimental model demonstrate the practicability of an extremely reliable fast random access memory with a capacity of hundreds of thousands of bits, ushering in a new era in storage devices for information handling systems."
"Photographic media are examined as vehicles for the storage of digital information. Storage devices of total capacity in the range from 107 to 109 bits, with favorable random-access features, appear to be achievable. Alternative methods of reading are suggested. The logical association of a much smaller erasable storage unit (such as a magnetic drum) with a large photographic store completely removes, for most practical applications, the difficulties arising from the fact that rapid erasure and rewriting are not possible in a photographic storage medium. Methods for writing in the information to be stored are briefly considered."
"In a shifting register or binary counter, there is a real logical requirement for a short term or temporary storage facility. In the counter, this occurs during the interval in which the actual count process is occurring. A positive memory counter is described in which this auxiliary storage is provided by elements which have the same time-indefinite storage property as the principal storage elements of the counter. This leads to a device which has two ranks of storage elements: the \"true\" and the \"false\" rank. The behavior of the single-stage and multiple-stage counter of this kind is derived, and the rules of formation for all numbers appearing in the true and in the false ranks are derived. The basic device is then generalized to one with four modes of operation, and the behavior and rules of number formation are discussed. Example of the application of the extended counter to a computing machine is given."
"This paper points out that the characteristics of magnetic recording make it possible to combine reading and writing in the same cell as it passes just once under the head. Amplifier requirements for this method of operation are discussed and a suitable design presented. A single head is used for both reading and writing. The process can be repeated in every successive cell at a cell rate of 60 kc. The techniques described, which are applicable to either parallel or serial systems, extend the utility of magnetic drums by allowing data processing as well as data storage."
"A pulse-regenerative amplifier using a point-contact transistor has been operated at a basic frequency of 3 megacycles. To produce regenerated pulses with waveshapes which are practically independent of the waveshapes of the input pulses, a germanium diode circuit has been used in conjunction with an external feedback path. This arrangement also provides for the synchronization of the output pulses with a master clock. Transformer coupling has been incorporated into the circuit to provide dc restoration."
"In this paper, basic properties of coded decimal number systems are presented, extending the discussion of \"Synthesis of Electronic Computing and Control Circuits.\" From the very large numbers of possible ways of coding the ten decimal digits into sets of binary elements, a restricted group of number systems is presented as being particularly adaptable for representing the decimal digits in digital computers. As an example, one number system of this group is presented which permits the construction of a very simple addition circuit."
"Certain of the design considerations, construction detail and performance data are presented on a low-inertia electromagnetic clutch used to satisfy high-acceleration requirements. The clutch has many possible applications in the digital computer field. Unidirectional and bidirectional models are discussed."
"This paper discusses many of the techniques now in use for converting analog information into digital form. Some of the more important reasons for this conversion are outlined and pertinent characteristics of conversion are indicated. Simplified sketches are used to illustrate seventeen basic principles of conversion. The description of an automatic data processing system is used to demonstrate the advantages that can result from instrumentation designed around an analog-to-digital converter."
"An analog-to-digital converter is described whose output can be read synchronously into a high-speed digital computer. The converter uses new types of cyclic-to-binary translators capable of converting a cyclic number into its binary form serially with least significant digit first. The underlying theorems are proved."
"An analysis is made of the effect, in smoothing observational data with a digital computer, of using two smoothing steps, the first having a high data handling rate and a short smoothing time, the second a low data handling rate and a long smoothing time. The analysis shows that for the most commonly used types of smoothing, the effect of the two smoothing operations in series is essentially equivalent to that of a single operation combining the most desirable features of each of the two, i.e., the high data handling rate of the first operation and the long smoothing time of the second. This fact is important in certain control applications where the combination of both these features in one smoother is not possible."
"This paper describes an electronic multiplier wherein the input voltages are made proportional to the respective indices of amplitude and frequency modulations of a radio frequency carrier with the aid of feedback stabilization. The desired product of the input voltage is obtained from a Foster-Seeley discriminator whose output is independently proportional to each modulation index after the carrier component is subtracted out. Performance of the AM-FM multiplier is essentially independent of vacuum tube characteristics by virtue of the feedback stabilization and is limited primarily by the stability of the discriminator parameters. Other features of the multiplier are: ease and rapidity of adjustment; conventional AM and FM receiver circuitry; long-time multiplication error of less than 1 per cent of full scale output; usable bandwidth (flat amplitude response and less than 15 degrees phase-shift for highest frequency component) approximately 1 per cent of carrier frequency."
"Some of the basic concepts of obtaining desired function characteristics using magnetic amplifiers with idealized core characteristics are presented. The core-characteristic test procedure is explained along with the results of some tests. The effect of parameter variation is shown and the causes of nonlinearities are discussed. Some new magnetic amplifier circuitry is shown and their use in the analog computer field is indicated."
"An instrument servomechanism that can be used either as an X-Y recorder or as a curve-follower type of function generator is described. The theory of operation is discussed, and a typical example of the instrument's use as a function generator is presented."
"The basic elements comprising an electronic differential analyzer are described. Fundamental concepts employed in the application of electronic differential analyzers to engineering problems are discussed, and an effective method of studying complicated dynamic systems is demonstrated. Data are presented on the types of problems which such machines are known to be capable of solving and on the extent to which they are being used in research, development and industrial organizations."
"Partial differential equations can be approximated by systems of simultaneous ordinary differential equations by replacing one or more of the partial derivatives by the appropriate finite differences. The resulting ordinary differential equations can sometimes be solved directly by an electronic differential analyzer employing feedback amplifiers. Both theoretical analysis of the accuracies attainable with the difference method and actual solution examples using the electronic differential analyzer are described. Types of partial differential equations considered include the heat, wave, and beam equations."
"Analog computing may be employed to study the behavior of physical systems subjected to random inputs. For linear systems the superposition property permits the incorporation of impulse or frequency response methods of analysis. Nonlinear systems are handled by generating appropriate random inputs and making direct measurements of the behavior of the system model or analog."
"Each type of electronic analog has a use in the solution of a set of economic problems. The large, general-purpose analog computer can solve dynamic-unilateral systems. This can be used for the analysis of a single business, the analysis of an industry, or the study of the economy as a whole. It is hoped that analogs of this type will be used to analyze the effects of proposed governmental budgetary policies, legislation, and regulations, which will have economic effects. The analog of international trade is a decision-function network which has many points in common with automobile and communication traffic control. Large machines for solving n-equations in n-unknowns can be used for linear-static problems such as the determination of average production levels in a large number of interrelated industries. This latter analog is relatively in accurate and is sensitive to the accuracy of the input data. Small scale, specific-purpose analogs can be built for a large variety of isolated dynamic problems, such as the determination of the best ordering rate for a small-retail grocer, and the design of the optimum ratio of inventory capacity to production capacity in a small-proposed business. The effect of statistical fluctuations can be most easily observed by using an analog with a noise generator."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper concerns the present well-known problems of complexity and unreliability in aviation electronics. It points out that the situation is unique in radio engineering and does not exist in other branches of engineering. It explains how this came about, points out that the demands for greater complexity will continue, and states that correction requires more than attention to such things as more reliable tubes and components. Suggestions are given for improvement, with particular emphasis on the need for more realistic requirement specifications by planning agencies, and for more intimate relations among electronic engineers, aircraft engineers, and field operations."
"This paper describes the design, construction, and performance of a magnetic-recording drum time-delay system. The device, which has been developed for use in such acoustic studies as noise localization, reverberation analysis and others amenable to correlation techniques, utilizes conventional proportional recording. Two channels yield a relative time delay between their outputs which may be varied from minus 15 milliseconds to plus 190 milliseconds with an accuracy of ±0.2 per cent using the instrument dial. Principal attention in the paper will be paid to the following: (1) Obtaining a uniform layer of magnetic material by spraying with a dispersion of iron oxide; (2) analyzing the effect of spacing between the magnetic material and the head upon the processes of recording and reproducing; (3) developing a mechanical driving system as free from flutter as possible."
"This paper describes the design, theory, construction, and operation of multi-megawatt pulsed klystrons."
"It has been surmised for some time that a travelingwave tube in which backward-traveling field components can be excited-such as for instance the \"Millman\" tube-may oscillate in a backward mode, the RF power emerging at the gun-end of the tube and its frequency depending only on the beam voltage. Experiments with the \"Millman\" tube show this to be so and oscillations have been observed in the first and second backward spatial-harmonic modes. The latter is excited between 600 and 900 volts, the tube oscillating between 5.9 and 6.4 mm. The former more powerful mode is excited between 1600 and 4000 volts, the tube tuning continuously between 6.0 and 7.5 mm, thus covering a frequency band of 10,000 mc. Power output of about 10 mw has been measured at 6.4 mm. The tube has also been studied as an amplifier and more than 20 db stable backward gain has been obtained. A simple theory of backward gain and of oscillation starting conditions is given."
"Advantages of using precision quartz resonators in conjunction with frequency standard oscillators are explained. Advantages of locating the precision-resonators underearth are also described. A method of measuring resonator drift rate with sensitivity of the order of 2 parts in 1010 by means of a direct voltage instead of a high-stability variable oscillator is explained."
"A method for the design of flip-flops has been described which includes component and voltage tolerances. The method may also be applied to the design of other similar switching circuits. The advantage of such methods is that designs meeting desired specifications may be obtained by a direct process rather than by one of trial and error."
"The impedance parameter of a circular helix, from which the gain of a helix-type traveling wave amplifier is computed, is investigated for a \"Tape-Helix\" model. Results obtained in this paper indicate that the impedance has a smaller value than for the \"Sheath-Helix\" model, and is considerably reduced at larger values of ka, the ratio of the helix circumference to the free space wavelength. A tape helix surrounded by a dielectric medium is analyzed. It is shown that the results obtained from the theory can be used to evaluate the helix impedance for usual types of traveling wave tubes. They have been found to be in agreement with measurements on many tube designs."
"The traveling-wave slot antenna is similar to a traveling-wave wire antenna, but it is far more versatile because the phase velocity and rate of radiation of the fields in the antenna can be controlled. Four types of traveling-wave slot antennas have been identified. These are: (a) the conventional transverse electric, TE (no tangential E field parallel to the slot length); (b) transverse magnetic, TM (no tangential H field parallel to the slot length); (c) a hybrid with negligible transverse E, and (d) a hybrid with negligible normal H. Only the hybrid types are capable of producing maximum radiation in the direction of the slot axis (i. e., end-fire radiation). The complex propagation constant which is characteristic of uniform traveling-wave slots has been measured for a variety of waveguide geometries and is presented in the form of graphs. The radiation pattern of a traveling-wave slot can be controlled to give low side lobe or \"cosecant squared\" type patterns by appropriate variation of slot width with distance z along the axis. An approximate formula for the variation of attenuation α with z required to give a specified pattern can be derived. This in turn gives the required variation of slot width with z. An examination of the principle of superposition shows that the conventional technique of array design is an approximation which has proved inadequate in the design of certain slot arrays."
"An approximate method has been developed for determining the shape and density of the spokes of electronic space charge when large RF potentials exist in the magnetron. With the estimation of space-charge configuration which this method makes possible, induced current theory and knowledge of the magnetron electrode geometry and external circuit can be applied to the calculation of frequency characteristics. These characteristics relate frequency to operating anode potential and anode current and are defined as frequency pushing or voltage tuning characteristics. Relatively simple equations for these characteristics are presented. Calculated characteristics for typical values of the variables of magnetron design are presented. The correspondence of the results of the theory with experimental data is discussed very briefly."
"A concentric matching section in which the characteristic impedance of the section varies along the section as a hyperbolic function provides a matching section which is relatively insensitive to frequency change. The performance of the line is described in terms of its reflection coefficient. Two lines are considered, one of which has a characteristic impedance which varies as a hyperbolic tangent along the section, the other line has postulated a reflection per unit length of the form of a hyperbolic secant squared."
"In a previous paper the author outlined a general method for synthesis of filter and amplifier transfer functions by setting up fictitious electrostatic problems. This paper shows that techniques utilizing conformal mappings provide practical ways for solving these electrostatic problems. Analysis in the mapped plane also yields convenient methods for predetermining the number of poles and zeros required to meet given design specifications."
"The effective complex magnetic permeability of an array of spherical conducting permeable particles is computed. Curves are presented which illustrate the dependence of the conductivity, permeability and radius of the particle and the frequency."
"A method of alignment of band-pass amplifiers is discussed based on the oscilloscopic display of second order harmonic distortion as a function of the carrier frequency departure from the pass-band center. This method of alignment is thought particularly effective for band-pass amplifiers requiring high degree of linearity of transfer phase versus frequency function, such as for example, low-distortion FM intermediate frequency amplifiers."
"In this paper, exact expressions are obtained for the excitation coefficients of a Tschebyscheff array by equating the array space factor to a Fourier series whose coefficients are readily calculated. A set of curves is presented showing half-power beam width versus antenna length for various side-lobe levels. An approximate though very accurate expression for the half-power beamwidth is derived."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists the chairmen of the various Professional groups along with their contact information."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In delightfully whimsical fashion, the author of the following guest editorial discusses the important subject of operational analysis - and, more particularly, the procedures involved in designing equipment to fit the user and the condition of actual use (rather than the reverse). He who can do this job effectively is termed a \"Boffin.\" But he who tends to do the reverse is denominated a \"Back Room Bird.\" With which preamble, the readers of these PROCEEDINGS are offered the pungent thoughts of a guest editorial from a leading inventor, developer, and designer of radar and electronic devices. He is a Fellow of the Institute, and Governing Director of his own organization in London, England."
"This paper, consisting of five parts, describes the principle, fabrication, circuit application, and theoretical bases of a new semiconductor transducer, the surface-barrier transistor. This device, produced by precise electrochemical etching and plating techniques, operates at frequencies in excess of 60 mc while displaying the low-voltage, lower-power-consumption and low-noise properties of transistors hitherto confined to much lower frequencies. Part I describes the basic discovery which led to the new transistor: a new mode of hole injection produced by a broad-area metal electrode in intimate contact with a single crystal of N-type germanium. The mechanisms of hole emission, conduction, and collection are discussed, and the effect on performance of precise fabrication of germanium sections a few microns in thickness is explained. Part II describes typical fabrication methods. A germanium blank is etched by directing to its surfaces two opposed jets of a metal salt solution, through which current passes in such polarity as to remove germanium. In addition to etching away material and disposing of the reaction products, the flowing solution cools the work. The etching is allowed to continue until the thickness of the germanium is reduced to a few microns with a tolerance of ±5 per cent of the remaining thickness. A sudden reversal of polarity then stops the etching action and immediately initiates electroplating of metal electrodes from the salt onto the freshly cleaned germanium surfaces."
"This paper describes a germanium n-p-n alloy junction transistor which is the counterpart to the germanium p-n-p junction transistor previously described. The importance of this new device arises from a fundamental difference between the two types. In the p-n-p transistor the active charge carriers are positive \"holes\"; in the n-p-n transistor the active charge carriers are negative electrons. Because these devices operate from power sources of opposite polarity, the two types may be advantageously combined in special circuits to eliminate components and fulfill unusual requirements. Because the electron mobility is more than twice that of holes, one of the factors affecting high-frequency response is more favorable for the n-p-n transistor than for its p-n-p counterpart. This n-p-n junction transistor is made by fusing a binary leadantimony alloy into each of the two opposite faces of a thin wafer of p-type single-crystal germanium. Since this alloy is ductile, the electrodes may be made relatively large if desired, as there is less danger of introducing differential expansion strains. The techniques and processes of assembly are similar to those employed for p-n-p junction transistors by the alloy process. However, a difference arises from the more uniform penetration afforded by the binary alloy. This leads to more planar junctions and permits better control of junction spacing. Distribution curves on a typical lot of 100 units are given; best power gain was 45 db, \"alpha\" 0.997 and 1-kc noise factor, 3 db. High \"alpha\" is maintained as the collector current is increased."
"Dielectric constant and specific resistance are reported for a variety of body tissues throughout the frequency range from 200 to 1,000 mc. The results are analyzed and explained by the cellular structure of tissue, the electrical properties of tissue electrolytes, and tissue protein content. Other results specify the temperature dependence of the electrical constants of tissue material. The temperature coefficients vary with frequency and are in agreement with theoretical expectation. A short description of measuring technique and of tissue sample thermostat is given."
"The experimental results of a program of study on low-noise traveling-wave tubes for 9,000 mc are described. Tests of tubes utilizing velocity jumps for noise reduction show that a single, gradual jump upward in voltage results in the best noise reduction. The design of a tube having 11.3 db noise figure and 18 db gain at 9,000 mc is given. Curves for the variation of noise figure with magnetic field, operating voltages, and cathode temperature are presented. The experimental results obtained from measuring the noise figure of some of the tubes at different frequencies suggest an empirical modification of the simple theory."
"Modern radio direction finding equipment and techniques have advanced to such a degree that it is possible to obtain accurate bearings on a signal from halfway around the globe. These successes have resulted largely from recent electrical and mechanical refinements in the modern Adcock antenna df system. Although the system has been described before, and applications demonstrated, to the writer's knowledge there has not been a complete investigation of its potentialities. An analysis would seem desirable because of the great utility of the system. The following material develops a rigorous mathematical analysis of the errors that are mostly encountered in the design and installation of a new direction finding station. A detailed treatment of the effect of variations in the antenna spacing is presented in support of the author's recommendations for obtaining higher efficiency in the upper frequency ranges of a given station."
"This paper describes an omnirange of a new design in which the transmitting antenna is caused either to move, or to appear to move along a circular path to produce low-deviation FM by Doppler effect. The FM envelope phase of the transmitted signal is directionally characterized. Deviation-expansion and selective-degeneration in an AFC circuit are used at the receiver to detect the minute directional FM in the presence of FM noise of much larger deviation. Advantages of the new omnirange include improved resolution, accuracy and ease of multiplexing."
"Gas-filled voltage-regulator tubes are subject to relaxation oscillations when operated in parallel with a condenser. These oscillations have been investigated and a qualitative description of their mechanism is presented. It was found that the voltage across the tube as a function of current has a minimum, and that if the current through the tube is greater than that at the voltage minimum, then relaxation oscillations do not occur. It was also found that a 100-ohm resistance in series with a VR105 tube reduces the tube current required to prevent oscillations."
"Formulas are derived for the E- and H-plane radiation patterns of antennas fed by horns as functions of illumination taper. The case of a single lens or reflector antenna fed by two contiguous horns stacked in either one of the principal planes is then investigated. By means of an illumination factor defined in terms of physical dimensions, the following electrical properties are related: (a) loci of half-power beamwidths, zeros, and side lobe peaks, (b) illumination taper at edge of secondary antenna, (c) crossover power, (d) spillover power, and (e) gain referred to the feed horn."
"The distribution of current within the beam of a cathode-ray tube has a Gaussian variation. Consequently, if the wave form of a pulse of beam current is known, it is possible to determine the excitation of an intensity-modulated screen surface. In this report the nature of the excitation is discussed for an intensity-modulated sweep for both rectangular and triangular current waveforms. The results are extended to indicate what may be expected of an actual mapping radar set. The theoretical constants which arise in the development are evaluated from data obtained by the shrinking raster method of measuring spot size, which is termed line width in this paper for purposes of clarity. This permits determination of the size of an information cell on the screen as a function of pulse duration, sweep speed and line width. Then the number of information cells available on a tube may be determined. As a consequence, we find that there is no significant difference in the number of information cells available on the standard 5FP7, 7BP7, or 12DP7. Furthermore, the reduction of the over-all receiving-system frequency response by some radar displays may be estimated. In such a case the video bandwidth may be reduced."
"The circuit properties of a resonant cavity are effectively described by its loaded Q, unloaded Q, and shunt resistance. One method of Q measurement depends on an accurate knowledge of the variation of VSWR as a function of frequency in a transmission line terminated by the resonant cavity. A method of measuring shunt resistance along any path in the cavity entails accurate observation of the resonant-frequency shifts caused by an obstacle placed at points along the path. Therefore, both measurements require an AFC system with good stability and high resolution. The parameters of a re-entrant cavity with apertures are considered and the associated experimental setup is described."
"The performance realizable from the statistical relationship between the fading of signals received on vertically and horizontally polarized antennas has been evaluated by interpretation of the joint distribution of these signals. A brief description is given of special instrumentation which determined the joint distribution as the signals were received. Data were collected at 6.985 and 11.66 megacycles using unmodulated signals transmitted from Red Bank, N.J., and received near St. Louis, Mo. The performance at 11.66 megacycles was very nearly that expected of independent Rayleigh-distributed fading of the vertical and horizontal components of the received signals. At 6.985 megacycles the realizable diversity performance was somewhat less effective than would have been expected with independent fading."
"A theory is presented to describe the statistical aspects of tracking a complex isolated structure, such as an aircraft or naval vessel, by radar. The results are expressible in simplest form when the target subtends an angle small compared with the beamwidth. Other situations require special consideration and treatment, but can be attacked by the same general methods. However, when the angle subtended by the target is small, a single description applies to all radar tracking systems. An apparent and an effective radar center are defined and their statistical properties derived. Special treatment is given to additional noise arising in conical scanning due to amplitude fluctuations as such. The theory provides information relating to the spectra as well as to the probability densities and rms values of the pertinent quantities. It must be understood that the theory is approximate, is based on a particular model of the target, and leaves the determination of certain critical parameters to experiment in the case of any particular target."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper describes the planning, design, construction, and service performance of the 100-kw ERP Sutton Cold-field television broadcasting station built by the British Broadcasting Corporation as the first of the group of four new high-power stations required by the plan to extend the London television service to provide national coverage for the United Kingdom. It represents the basic general arrangement which has been used at the subsequent stations, although at each of these, some variations have been desirable because of differences and improvements in the type of transmitter and combining equipment. The relation of the operating channel of Sutton Coldfield to the over-all frequency-allocation plan for the 41-to 68-mc band used for television broadcasting in the United Kingdom, and the reasons for adopting a vestigial sideband characteristic for the vision signal, are briefly discussed. The construction details of the complete vision and sound transmitting equipment, transmission lines, combining diplexer, mast and antenna system are described, and information about the performance of the station in service is given."
"This paper is concerned with the theory of an air-borne electronic steering computer and associated instrumentation used in aircraft guidance during an instrument approach. It is shown that this guidance problem may be analyzed with advantage as one of feedback control. Means are discussed for achieving a stable flight path in the resultant variable gain feedback control system. Principles of complementary linear filtering are presented and combination of certain control signals in a complementary filter is shown to result in an improved system. The importance of the form of cockpit instrumentation in this guidance problem is indicated."
"This paper describes a variable time-delay system having time jitter less than 0.00025 μsec, which is equivalent to 2.5 parts per million of its maxmum time delay. To achieve this stability, time delay in this system is accomplished exclusively by means of linear bilateral elements. A distributed amplifier is used to compensate the losses in the delay elements. Due to the fact that only a limited number of elements can be installed in a practical circuit, the signal pulse is permitted to travel through each delay element many times in order to increase the amount of total time delay. One of the experimental units having a total time delay up to 100 μsec in step of 1 μsec has been found to be satisfactory. The usual causes of time jitter in conventional time-delay circuits such as, variations of cut-off characteristics, noise, hum, and fluctuations of supply voltages, cannot affect the stability of this system. Practical circuits as well as experimental results are described."
"The performance of a linear array, which has been designed for low side-lobe level, is markedly affected by small variations in element excitation, introduced primarily, by the inaccuracies that are inherent in the manufacture of the array. Thus, the phase and amplitude of each element contain a slight randomness and the array performance must be determined by the application of statistical methods. This method of analysis has been formulated for the generalized symmetric linear array and computed for the special cases of three 24-element linear-shunt slot arrays usig a Dolph-Tchebyscheff current distribution. The statistics give the probability that the side-lobe level will exceed an arbitrary comparison value as a function of the magnitude of arbitrary manufacturing tolerances. The results indicate that the lower the design value of the sidelobe level the greater the perturbation to be expected for the allowed tolerance. Thus, an additional restriction is imposed upon array design which forces the designer either to require very small tolerances in manufacture or to overdesign the array in order to compensate for the perturbations introduced by the manufacturing processes."
"The locked-oscillator frequency divider is seldom used because of its inherent instability. One method of stabilizing the locked-oscillator divider is to insert certain nonlinear elements in the oscillator circuits. It is required that these elements have a voltage characteristic that is proportional to an integral root of the current through them. If this condition is met, the locked-oscillator divider can become almost completely insensitive to extreme changes in plate voltage, driving signal voltage, and driving frequency. The fact that the nonlinearity of -the elements can be described mathematically permits some analysis of the circuit nonlinear differential equations."
"The practical design of the Wien bridge type of RC oscillator or selective amplifier is discussed. A set of design curves is presented which allows the direct determination of such characteristics as frequency stability, frequency accuracy, amplifier gain and phase shift requirements, and the voltage control element requirements."
"The lock-in condition of the phase-detector reactance tube-controlled oscillator afc system has been investigated. For the case of RC coupling between phase detector and the reactance tube, an explicit relation is obtained for the lock-in condition which involves the filter time constant, the initial frequency error, the phase detector constant and the reactance tube controlled oscillator sensitivity constant."
"In order to minimize the effects of Presuel diffraction due to short range in the measurement of radar cross sections, a dielectric lens of low dielectric constant was introduced. The lens action was investigated by direct measurement of the shape of the incident phase front at the target, both with the lens in place and without it. The result of the phase measurement showed a reduction of phase variation over the exit aperture of the lens from 150 to 33°. In addition to the measurement of phase, the radar cross section of each of a set of metal cylinders was measured both with and without the lens, for comparison. The measured broadside radar cross section of a cylinder of length equal to about 80 per cent of the lens diameter was doubled by the addition of the lens. Calculation showed that the lens effectively eliminated phase error and that the residual error in measured results was essentially all due to anisotropy of the antenna of the simulated radar system used for the measurements."
"A coaxial line can be matched to a waveguide by means of a probe antenna located ahead of a short-circuiting plunger. An impedance match can usually be achieved by varying any two of the following three dimensions: (a) the off-center position of the probe, (b) the probe length, (c) the piston position. This paper points out that there is, theoretically, an optimum piston position for greatest bandwidth, and presents some evidence corroborating this theory. Bandwidths greater than ±10 per cent to the 1 db swr points have been realized by fixing the piston at its optimum position and varying (a) and (b) above to obtain a match."
"The use of short-circuited transmission-line sections as wide-range resonant circuits in the 50-to 500-mc region is attended with one or more of these disadvantages: restricted tuning range with ordinary variable capacitors, limited choice of susceptance variation, poor impedance matching, and mechanical complexity. An analysis of an alternate method, using short, fixed-length transmission lines with a capacitor at each end, which overcomes these disadvantages, is carried through in normalized form to permit rapid graphical design of the lines and capacitors. The analysis is extended to include interstage coupling circuits and output circuits with a fixed coupling point."
"A criticism is made of the emphasis recently placed by communication engineers on correlative concepts and devices. Specific suggestions, illustrated by an example borrowed from radar, are offered about other possible attacks on the problems presented by the submergence of wanted data in noise."
"This paper gives the results of a theoretical investigation of an antenna used with a plane reflector. This finds application in microwave relay stations, where the antenna is placed at ground level facing up and the reflector is located some distance above it. The results given show that there are certain values of X, separation distance, reflector and antenna size for which the received power is greater than for the same antenna alone at the elevated location."
"When a sinusoidal radio wave of extremely high frequency is sent out by a transmitter, the wave received far beyond the horizon is often observed to fluctuate. Here some of the statistical properties of this fluctuation are derived on the Booker-Gordon assumption; namely, that the received wave is the sum of many little waves produced when the transmitter beam strikes \"scatterers\" distributed in the troposphere. Expressions are obtained for the periods of the fluctuations in time, in space, and in frequency. These expressions extend closely related results obtained by Booker, Ratcliffe and others."
"A method is described to increase the originally low depth of modulation in electron multiplier cascades. The modulation is derived as voltage on an intermediate dynode and applied to a control grid following a later dynode. Results of tests are given."
"This paper presents measurements of index-of-refraction fluctuations and profiles made with a direct reading microwave refractometer over the Atlantic Ocean and coastal areas near Lakehurst, N.J., in April 1951 and over the vicinity of Wright-Patterson Field, Dayton, Ohio, in June 1951."
"A method is presented whereby the response of production networks can be adjusted to a standard response by making single adjustments in the elements one at a time. The only requirement, apart from the linearity of the networks, is that their elements be within reasonable range of the correct values at the outset. In the example described, this range included deviations from 10 to 20 per cent. The technique reduces simply to the adjustment of the elements, one at a time, until an indicating instrument reads zero."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper describes the objectives, mechanical and electrical problems and solutions, and final performance of the multiple antenna system for television and FM broadcasting on the Empire State building in New York City. A specially built steel tower supports six individual antennas from which there are transmitted five picture carriers, five sound carriers, and three FM broadcasting carriers with completely satisfactory freedom from the effects of mutual coupling. The paper describes the planning, execution, and results of extensive preliminary field laboratory work during which much basic information on such systems was obtained through the use of full-scale model antennas."
"The generation of compatible color signals according to NTSC specifications is covered in this paper. The equation for the composite signal is stated in terms of voltages existing in the red, green, and blue channels, and methods of calculating and measuring the composite video signal produced by a synthetic color bar chart generator are given. The development of the signal from the channel outputs of a color flying-spot scanner is illustrated with block diagrams, and the performance of a number of units in the chain is described. The signal specifications described in this article were used by the NTSC for field testing during the latter part of the year 1951 and also during the year 1952. On the basis of these tests certain modifications of signal specifications were made in January, 1953. These are listed at the conclusion."
"The circular electric mode in round metallic tubing becomes increasingly more attractive than the dominant mode from the standpoint of minimzing the waveguide size at frequencies above about 10,000 mc for the loss criterion of 0.25 db/100 feet. The circular electric (TE01) mode also makes available a theoretical heat loss of 2 db/mile in waveguides less than 6 inches in diameter at frequencies higher than about 5,500 mc. Increased transmission bandwidth, reduced delay distortion, and reduced waveguide size are factors favoring use of the highest practical frequency of operation. An increased number of freely propagating modes and smaller mechanical tolerances are the associated penalties. Experimental work has been carried out in the 9,000-mc region using the TE01 mode in a pipe about 5 inches in diameter. Transmission of 0.1-μsec pulses has been observed over a distance of 40 miles. Mode conversion and surface roughness of the tubing walls result in observed losses which average about 50 per cent higher than the theoretical values for geometrically perfect, smooth-walled tubing. There is included a brief discussion of several problems unique to transmission in a multimode medium, including pure mode generation, mode filtering, the bend problem, and the effects of mode conversion on transmission loss and signal fidelity."
"The unconventional behavior of permeability and core loss in the magnetic ferrites as compared to metals has led to a study of core-loss measurements. The relationships between the magnetic quality factor μQ and the characteristics of coils and transformers are developed, and the advantages of μQ as a parameter for the study and application of ferrites are discussed. A selected bibliography is given."
"A comparison of thermionic emission from oxide cathodes with different base alloys showed the dependence of the work function on migrating impurities from tube parts other than the cathode. The effect of the base metal alone could be evaluated properly only by the use of a special diode structure which did not contribute any impurities toward the reduction of the oxide-coating. In the test method used, saturated emission was measured but the anode voltage was kept below the decomposition energies of most of the compounds apt to be found on the plate."
"Two RC circuits based upon all-pass phase-shift networks are described. They are useful as electronically tunable audio oscillators, selective amplifiers, or bridges. Change of resonant frequency is accomplished by varying amplitude of transmission in one or more circuit branches by means of vacuum-tube modulators. In theory, both circuits may be electronically tuned from zero to infinite frequency, and their feedback-loop gain at resonance should be independent of the frequency to which they are tuned. However, the frequency ratio conveniently obtainable in practice, before appreciable changes in gain occur, is about four to one. This limitation is in part a consequence of the decrease in effective Q of the frequency-controlling portion of the circuit when they are tuned far from center frequency."
"The subject of this article is the theoretical synthesis of a mechanism which has some essential features in common with conventional servomechanisms and some with analog computers. It operates on a feedback principle; that is, at one point of the system an input is compared with a signal fed back from the outputs of the device, and an error signal is derived from this comparison. The basic distinction lies in the fact that this one error signal is used in this mechanism to control two outputs which are subject to a constraint. This is accomplished by a suitable variation in the gains of the system."
"In this paper we shall discuss a method for the synthesis of transfer functions which have one or more steady-state frequency bands throughout which a constant-amplitude level is approximated. Filters and amplifiers are familiar examples of circuits which commonly use transfer functions of this kind. The salient points of this method as applied to some low-pass filter examples will be considered herein."
"Conventional methods for linear systems may be used for determining the operating characteristics of a nonlinear device near equilibrium, provided the differential equations expressing its operation can be expanded in a Taylor series about the equilibrium point. These methods are justified only for variations about equilibrium sufficiently smnall that all second and higher power terms of the expansions can be neglected, thereby reducing the expansions to linear equations. In linear feedback systems the response is independent of the equilibrium point. If a system is inherently nonlinear, it generally will not have this characteristic. It is shown that these systems can be modified so that the response of the output will also be independent of the equilibrium point, except for an amplitude scale factor, for a given incremental input variation from equilibnum."
"Three sets of nomograms permitting calculation of tropospheric refractive index, refractive index discontinuity, and vertical refractive index gradient are presented. So far as is known, no similar charts have been made for discontinuity and gradient calculations. All three have been designed about the standard radiosonde transmission, which gives temperature, dew-point temperature, and pressure at points where discontinuities occur in the vertical gradients of temperature or dew-point temperature. These nomograms are valid for all wavelengths greater than 1.5 cm."
"It is shown that voltage gains of any preassigned magnitude may be achieved at a real frequency by means of physical RC two terminal-pair networks, either grounded or ungrounded. However, the maximum gain possible by means of any RC network having a transfer function of fixed degree is bounded and the relationship between the maximum gain and the degree is determined. The results are illustrated by several examples."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A review of typical electronic component failures shows that failures occur because of insufficient reliability per component, combined with the multiplicity of components utilized in typical electronic assemblies. Further, it is shown that failures do not occur in a manner described by the classical Gaussian description but rather by an exponential description which indicates a decreasing number of failures per unit time with time. Means for increasing reliability of components are discussed, with emphasis on mechanical ruggedness and resistance to severe environments. Replacement of electronic tubes by transistors and magnetic amplifiers is also discussed."
"A brief review of superregenerative (sr) operation is followed by the substitution of Rice's Fourier series representation for noise current into the expression for the output of an SR amplifier. Expressions are derived for the noise figure. It is then shown how a reflex klystron can be used as the active element. Expressions for the noise figure in terms of the klystron parameters are derived. Calculation for a hypothetical, but realistic, case shows that low noise figures are obtainable if certain conditions are met. In particular, it is shown that deliberate introduction of beam current, with its consequent shot noise, during the quliescent interval provides a smaller over-all noise figure."
"Much useful general information concerning the behavior of oscillators may be obtained by means of a graphical analysis based upon curves of electronic and circuit admittance. A curve of electronic susceptance versus electronic conductance and a curve of circuit susceptance versus circuit conductance are plotted in the same diagram. At points of intersection of the two curves the electronic and circuit admittances are equal in magnitude and phase. These points therefore indicate possible equilibrium values of frequency and amplitude. This method of analysis explains observed oscillator phenomena, such as amplitude and frequency hysteresis, dominance of one mode of oscillation over other modes, pulsing, and electronic tuning. The function of this paper is to present a summary of information previously found only scattered throughout the literature on oscillators."
"An attempt is made to explain, analytically, the observed shape of the characteristic of kinescopes, which seems to follow a simple power law with an exponent between 2 and 2.5. The difference from Langmuir-Childs law is due to the fact that the active-cathode area varies with grid voltage according to another power law. The theory is applied to the modulator section of a conventional TV picture tube and also to various structural modifications thereof. As to the emission characteristic, gamma is consistently found to lie between 2.4 and 2.5 and seems to be little affected by structural alterations. The mu factor, on the other hand, is strongly influenced by any one of the changes in the four system parameters. An experimental tube was built to check some of the predictions of the above theory. For the cathode current, a gamma value of 2.43 was observed. The useful screen current followed a power law with an exponent of 1.9. The mu factor of this tube was found to fall within two per cent of the value computed from (15) of this paper."
"Optimum transmitter and receiver transfer characteristics are obtained for linear communication systems under assumptions of fixed power levels and fixed over-all distortion of message signal. Two separate criteria of performance are used as the basis for optimization: (a) the mean-square value or variance of the receiver output noise component and (b) the probability that the noise component of receiver output exceeds a preassigned tolerance value at least once during some finite period of observation."
"A theoretical investigation for quantitative evaluation of voltage, current, and magnetic field distribution along single-layer coils is presented herein. The magnitudes and the number of harmonics present in the distribution are obtained for the first time. From the voltage and current distributions, the self-capacitance and inductance of coils have been obtained. The self-capacitance depends mostly on the length to diameter ratio; it slightly depends on the amount of harmonics as well as the pitch to wire-diameter ratio. The harmonics mainly rely on the number of turns, the operating frequency, the coil diameter, and the length to diameter ratio. From the magnetic field distribution, the HF coil resistance is obtained. Experimental results extracted from previous authors are in good agreement with the theoretical predictions."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The scientist has set himself the problem of finding out as much as he can about the world around him and understanding this as well as he can. In accepting this problem, value judgments are involved which, in turn, involve an emotional component. Among the emotional components are: acceptance for its own sake of the discipline of the fact; subject to this discipline, a sense of complete freedom; the challenge of difficulty; the sense of adventure in penetrating into the unknown. In the passion of the scientist for discovering facts irrespective of whether they are pleasant or unpleasant lies the source of the undoubted incompatibility between scientists and non-scientists. One of the tasks of society is to find how to live with this incompatibility."
"Although the very high frequencies (vhf,30-300 mc) are allocated for utilization almost entirely upon the premise that propagation will be tropospheric, there are very definite ionospheric effects with which one must reckon. These are: (1) regular F2 ionization, (2) sporadic E ionization, (3) scattering from regular ionization, (4) auroral ionization, (5) meteoric ionization. The first of these is predictable with reasonable accuracy and provides phenomenally good communication over great distances and with extremely low power. The second is far less predictable, but it also can provide good communication with extremely low power. The third is mainly a newly discovered phenomenon; although it offers intriguing possibilities for regular communication, it presents at the same time large problems in achieving that end. The fourth and fifth are so far only of nuisance value to the communicator. However, they are phenomena of great interest to the geophysicist, as indeed are the other phenomena as well. In this paper, the nature of vhf propagation arising from these sources of ionization is discussed. The maximum distance between path terminals for single-hop propagation is, of course, about 2,400 km for reflection from E region effects and about 4,000 km for F region effects. Multiple hops are rarely significant except from the regular F2 ionization at frequencies only slightly above 30 mc. A considerable amount of information is included on the nature of the ionization as deduced from the propagation effects. The work of individual investigators is extensively referenced."
"A subcommittee of the IRE Committee on Wave Propagation selects references designed to direct the non specialist through the mazes of an extensive literature to information on certain specific aspects of the propagation of short radio waves through the troposphere."
"The prediction of area coverage of a broadcast station is of prime importance. To do this requires the evaluation of the effects of such factors as wave refraction, earth reflection, diffraction, and attenuation. The following paper describes an experiment conducted at 850 mc which was undertaken to solve this problem. We have concluded that useful predictions of wave propagation can be made with free space theoretical field strength reduced by theoretical knife edge diffraction shadow loss and by suitable empirical experience factors."
"The influence of a cathode temperature change of planar diodes and triodes is calculated with the help of extended Langmuir tables. The possibility of compensation of this temperature effect is considered. Two units with a common cathode sleeve show no conclusive improvement in cancellation of the heater effect. The disturbance voltage as a result of anode voltage changes is investigated. Some new compensating circuits are presented, resulting in dynamic and in-phase balance simultaneously for a single adjustment. It is found that for all balanced circuits the stability demand for the supply or auxiliary voltage is nearly the same. The change of tube \"constants\" with time and the relation between anode current and flicker effect attenuation is investigated. It was observed that the poorly defined position of the heater in the cathode sleeve seriously limits tube stability."
"We present results of calculations on the amplification, phase distortion, and harmonic content in an idealized traveling-wave amplifier when excited to levels beyond those for which the device behaves linearly. The idealization consists mainly of neglecting the action on the electron beam of radio-frequency fields due to the space charge in the beam. The limiting efficiency and the phase distortion are given for various values of the beam-to-circuit coupling parameter and of the electron injection velocity. The relative harmonic content of the beam is given to the fifth harmonic frequency, inclusive. The calculations were performed by numerically integrating the equations of motion of typical electrons entering the tube at equal intervals of initial phase. Most of the numerical work was done with IBM equipment, some with desk calculators, and in one case, on the Bell Laboratories relay computer. The results are presented almost entirely graphically, and the reader is referred to figures in main body of the paper for quantitative information."
"Methods are discussed for measuring those characteristics of a germanium diode which are important in video-detector application. Some of the measuring techniques described were designed for rapid production-line checks. A theoretical analysis of the operation of the crystal diode as a video detector is presented. The forward and back conductances have been assumed constant over the range of operation, and loads with both small and large time constants have been considered."
"This paper describes an experimental investigation, the purpose of which is to provide a fund of radiation-pattern design data for the corner-reflector antenna. The configuration is varied both in the angle between the plane sheets and the spacing from apex to dipole. Measurements are shown for corner angles from 30 to 270 degrees and for corner to dipole spacings of 0.1 to 3 wavelengths. Both H-plane and E-plane radiation patterns are shown for each configuration employing semi-infinite sheets. Certain specific corners are investigated for the effects on pattern of finite side lengths, side heights, and of the substitution of spines and grid construction for the solid sheets. Good correlation is found between calculated and measured patterns for the cases that may be handled by the method of images. Sets of integrable patterns are shown further to correlate measurements with gain calculations."
"The optimum design methods of Dolph and Riblet for the broadside array with an odd number of elements have been modified so that a common design procedure may be used. This procedure was then extended to the endfire array with an odd number of elements. A comparison of the optimum and other designs for endfire arrays is then given."
"The responses of a series-loaded parallel-tuned circuit to a linearly increasing driving force and to ramp functions with various times of rise have been computed. Curves are given to show the effect of various rise times of the ramp function on circuits with Q's of 0.5, 1, 2, 4, 8, and c."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"Lists the chairmen of the various Professional groups along with their contact information."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper describes a general study of transistors in television receivers. For this purpose the development of a completely transistorized television receiver was undertaken. An experimental model using 37 developmental transistors and a five-inch kinescope housed in a cabinet 13×12×7 inches was constructed. This portable receiver operates on a single channel using a self-contained loop, and has a total battery-power consumption of 13 watts, more than 25 per cent of which is consumed by the kinescope heater. The development of a complete experimental receiver, even with a number of compromises, provided an opportunity to deal with the problems found in every stage and circuit of the receiver. Although experimental point-contact transistors have recently been developed which will provide oscillations for the entire vhf television band, considerable difficulty was found in providing wide-band rf gain using transistors at these frequencies. This problem was much less difficult at intermediate frequencies and at the intercarrier-sound frequency. The second-detector problem of obtaining high rectification efficiency with low load impedances was solved by using a transistor detector. The video amplifier problem was complicated by the requirement for a high input impedance; however, with a combination of junction and contact transistors a stable, high-gain video amplifier with a relatively high input impedance was built. An audio system using complementary symmetrical junction transistors was designed to produce high output with good efficiency. In the synchronization and deflection portion of the receiver, circuits were devised for using transistors in ways that differ from the analogues of vacuum tubes."
"Transistors have certain characteristics which are not present in vacuum tubes. Some of these characteristics may be best classified as symmetrical properties. The first kind of symmetry may be found in the complementary characteristics of the n-p-n and p-n-p transistors. Circuits using both kinds of transistors in combination provide unique advantages in reduction of components and other circuit simplifications. A second kind of symmetry is displayed by single units since the emitter and collector may be interchanged. This symmetry permits a current flow of either direction controlled alike by the base current. This basic property is useful in switching circuits for clamping, phase and frequency comparison, modulation, and so forth. A high efficiency deflection-current circuit for television was developed using this principle."
"Negative impedances having very stable characteristics are obtained with circuits using transistors. The physical characteristics of transistors, compactness, long life, simple power requirements, plus constancy of pertinent electrical parameters enhance their practical utility in the production of negative impedances."
"This paper presents the theory and a description of a course-line navigation computer for use with the presently available vhf omnirange navigation system or with the proposed complete omnirange-dme navigation system. A position fix may be obtained with the equipment by triangulation using line of bearing information from two omniranges. A further computation then produces course and distance indications with respect to an arbitrary ground point as selected by the pilot. Alternatively, position-fix information derived from an oange-dme ground station may be used as input data for course-line computation. The punched-card reference-data system and pictorial course display instrumentation associated with the computer are described."
"This paper deals with a theoretical circuit analysis of a single-ended push-pull audio amplifier. Linear tube characteristics and small signals are assumed. The problem of impedance matching is first discussed. The properties and the requirements of a satisfactory driver stage are analyzed, and an output stage using an impedance matching output transformer is discussed. The effects of the plate-to-ground capacitance of the driver stage on the frequency-gain characteristic and of the choice of the tube and circuit parameters are analyzed. The paper concludes with some experimental results indicative of the inherant properties of the amplifier."
"In this paper are calculated the informational capacities and the optimum statistics of communication systems consisting of an amplitude- and/or phase-modulated transmitter; a medium, which may include the rf and IF portions of the receiver, and in which white thermal noise of the same bandwidth as the transmitted signal is added to the latter; and a receiver responding to the amplitude and/or phase of this received signal. Restriction of the transmitted signal or receiver response to amplitude modulation alone or to phase modulation alone reduces the informational capacity of the system below the full channel capacity found by Shannon, C = W log (1+r2), with W the bandwidth in cps and r the rms signal-to-noise ratio. It is found that at very high signal-to-noise ratios the capabilities of AM alone and of PM alone each account for half this full informational capacity of the channel. When the signal-to-noise ratio is much less than unity, however, PM has 79% of the full channel capacity, while AM can transmit no more than about 17% of the full channel capacity. If a receiver is used which responds to both amplitude and phase, on the other hand, the capacity at low signal-to-noise ratios equals the full channel capacity whatever type of transmitter is used. An AM signal received on a PM receiver is found to be able at low signal-to-noise ratios to convey as much information as a PM signal."
"The mathematical theory of the operation of the plate line of a distributed amplifier is developed using matrix algebra as a tool. The effects of a finite number of current generators placed at regular intervals on what would otherwise be an ordinary lumped-constant transmission line are determined. The theory predicts the manner in which the output of a distributed amplifier is changed with propagation constant of the grid and plate lines, termination of the grid and plate lines, number of tubes, and grid driving voltage. Some of the deductions made were tested using a six tube distributed amplifier; and, the experimental results were found to be in general agreement with predicted results."
"The electromagnetic-field configuration in the various parts of the resonator is considered, as well as the boundary relations at the junctions between them. The result is used to relate resonance frequency and Q to the geometry and to design the output transducer so that the desired slot conductance is obtained for the electronic operation of the magnetron."
"The effective number of pulses received when a radar scans past a target is analyzed in terms of the integration of a train of pulses of amplitudes determined by the antenna beam pattern. It has been customary to take for this number the pulses occurring in the half-power beamwidth, ß, and to assume that these pulses were all of full (mid-beam) amplitude (this assumption roughly compensating for the discard of pulses outside the half-power points). The present analysis is based on the existence of an optimum integration angle, which gives a greater improvement of signal-to-noise ratio than integration over greater or lesser arcs. This optimum is found to be 0.84ß for a Gaussian-shaped beam. Integration over this angle gives the same signal-to-noise improvement as integration over a rectangular-shaped beam of width 0.47ß. Thus the equivalent number of full-amplitude pulses is 0.47 times the number usually assumed, representing a reduction in calculated radar system sensitivity of 1.6 db."
"Since poles of the complex imnmittance of a linear system represent the decrements and frequencies of rotating phasors in the linear time domain, it is suggested that a nonlinear system might be represented by moving poles whose instaneous decrements and frequencies are associated with phasors rotating in the nonlinear or time-distorted phase space. This idea is applied to the analysis of a class of nonlinear oscillation generators of the second order which is described by the differential equation, -N1(,X)=0."
"The use of nonstandard terminations improves the selectivity of the simple ladder filters and makes it possible to use elements of relatively low Q. Universal curves of insertion loss, indicating the combined effects of the terminations and of dissipation in the filter elements, are presented so as to apply to low-pass, high-pass, and band-pass filters for the constant- half and full section and the full section terminated by m-derived half sections."
"A homogeneous ring array of axial dipoles will radiate a vertically polarized field that concentrates to an increasing degree around the horizontal plane with increasing increment of the current phase per revolution. There is reason to believe that by using a corresponding antenna system with tangential or radial dipoles, a field may be obtained that has a similar useful structure as the above-mentioned ring array, but which in contrast to the latter is essentially horizontally polarized. In this paper a systematic investigation has been made of the field from such an antenna system with tangential or radial dipoles. Recently it was stated in the literature that it is impossible to treat the general case where the increase of the current phase per revolution is arbitrarily large by using ordinary functions. The results obtained in this paper disprove this statement. A similar investigation has been made of the field from the antenna system with tangential dipoles described above in the case where the current distribution on this system is a standing wave instead of a progressing wave. When the increment of the current phase per revolution converges towards infinity, the gain of the antenna systems treated here converges towards infinity, too, i.e. supergain occurs. Based on the theory of supergain an approximate expression has been derived for the minimum value of the radius of the antenna system, which it is possible to use in practice."
"J.E. Wolfe states that he is unable to agree with him as to the equivalence of Fig. 1(a) or (b) and (c). These may be equivalent as far as impedances are concerned, but if so, then I do not believe that they are equivalent as to QL. If this is true, then equation (1) is in error, also. The original author (L. Storch) replies that Professor Wolfe's troubles stem from his failure to differentiate between the Q of the circuit with the load connected, designated as loaded Q or QL, and a Q which is solely a figure of merit for the coil and should be as high as possible. The author then provides an explanation where it it is convenient to label Prof. Wolfe's QL as QLW, in order to distinguish it from QLS, i.e. the QL of the original paper."
"For a linear array having any given number of elements it is shown that an optimum single-beam endfire pattern can be produced by proper choice of current distribution and element spacing."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper considers the relations between the colorimetric quantities of the system and the electrical signals into which they are encoded for transmission. The type of system considered specifically is that in which the complete video signal comprises a monochrome component together with a color carrier, which collaborate to transmit all of the information necessary for a subjective reproduction of a colored scene. However, the colorimetric equations derived in the paper are quite general, and would apply to any system of color reproduction."
"Described in this paper is a single gun and three gun version of a simple color cathode-ray tube developed by Chromatic Television Laboratories, Inc., based on the ideas of Dr. Ernest O. Lawrence of the University of California. Both types utilize post deflection focusing (PDF) and acceleration as will be discussed in the body of this paper. The principles described are quite general and may be applied to other cathode-ray tube and camera tube designs. The single and three gun types discussed below will operate with any of the presently proposed color television transmission systems."
"Following a review of the principles of pulsed transmission of information, the method of pulse-code modulation (PCM) is discussed. Two different experimental systems for performing this function are described."
"Theory and experimental results are presented for a basically new type of electron-stream amplifier in which the stream flows near a resistive wall. The values of gain and bandwidth obtainable are found to be comparable to those of other microwave amplifiers, such as traveling-wave tubes. In contrast to such tubes, however, the gain is affected very little by appreciable changes in the circuit parameters or operating voltage; furthermore, self-oscillation is inherently absent because the input is effectively isolated from the output. Experiments are described that were performed mainly to verify the theory; the existence of the growing wave was demonstrated, and the measured gain was in good agreement with the theory."
"A method for calculating the conversion loss and conductances of a crystal mixer is presented. The magnitude of the dependence of these characteristics on terminations at the image frequency and at the sum frequency is shown. Experimental verification of the calculations is shown by measurements and by reference to the literature. An investigation of crystal noise characteristics is reported, and it is shown that there is an optimum intermediate frequency for minimum noise figure. The design criteria for minimum receiver noise figure are shown."
"This paper describes the design, construction, and performance of an electrostatic oscilloscope tube suitable for direct operation on peak deflection voltages of 100 kv and pulse widths of a fraction of a microsecond. The deflection system comprises an electrostatic field divider between the deflection electrode and the electron beam, so that the high deflection voltage causes only normal beam deflection at the screen. The tube may be calibrated at a low anode voltage and operated at a high one during pulse measurement, reducing dc calibration voltage requirements fivefold or tenfold. Use of the tube avoids difficulties encountered with resistance-capacitance dividers in measuring radar modulator pulses."
"Digital computers have recently been used as elements in control systems employing otherwise conventional elements. The fact that data passing through the digital computer of the usual type must be sampled is an important property of such mixed systems. The description of the processes of sampling and desampling, as well as operations performed by the digital computer, in the frequency domain permits the extension of conventional servo-mechanisms analysis to mixed systems. The purpose of this article is an introduction to dealing with the unconventional parts of the system. Sampling is shown to be analogous to amplitude modulation by the continuous data of a carrier of unit impulses, while desampling is analogous to ripple filtering. Linear operations of the digital computer on sampled data are described by transfer functions. An illustrative example of computer program design in the frequency domain is given, and the applicability of these methods is indicated."
"An electronic analog machine for computing the roots of algebraic equations of degrees through the eighth is described. The coefficients of the equation may be complex. The roots are indicated as points in the complex number plane light points on the screen of a cathode-ray tube. Once per second the roots are displayed, and when some of the coefficients are varied the corresponding curves described by the roots are made visible by the persistence of light emission from the screen. An accurate determination of the roots is obtained by means of a comparison-root which can be moved all over the number plane and thus be brought to coincide with a root. The comparison-root is displayed by a scanning system, which also controls the positions of the roots, and so it is possible to obtain an accurate reading not influenced by distortion in the cathode-ray tube. By means of a normalizing device, the voltage level in the machine is kept high throughout the computation, and so all the roots are determined with about the same percental accuracy. The modulus of an error will normally be of the magnitude of 1 per cent of the corresponding root-modulus."
"A network containing switches is equivalent to a number of networks that differ in the values of their components, in the arrangement of the components, or in both respects. When analyzing or synthesizing such a network, one may treat each different network by itself, and then combine the results. This paper describes a method by which the different aspects of a switchable network may be treated simultaneously. The mathematics by which the network is treated is a combination of ordinary field algebra (complex numbers) and Boolean algebra. The mathematical foundation is first laid out, then interpreted in terms of switchable network elements. The paper is concluded with some examples of analysis and synthesis of switchable networks."
"A new directional coupler capable of transferring variable amounts of power (0 to 100 per cent) from one waveguide to another is described and analyzed. The coupling element in this coupler is a long slot containing a grid of wires in the common narrow wall of the two waveguides. The coupler can carry nearly the full power of the waveguide and has been used for a variable high-power divider as well as in a variable high-power attenuator. The quantitative theory presented agrees closely with the experimental results."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The rapid growth during the past ten years of the radio engineering profession resulted in the initiation by the I. R. E. of the Professional Group Plan. The significant steps in the development of the Professional Groups are reviewed and the value of the Professional Group Plan to the Institute and to the Profession as a whole is evaluated. The importance of realistic consideration of problems arising from the group expansion program is stressed."
"An analysis is made of the reasons for the trend of military electronics toward more system complexity. Some interesting aspects of the relation of complexity to unreliability are investigated, and a distinction is established between circuit complexity and operation complexity. The soundness of the choice of complexity is established by curves of a general \"trend\" nature. Systems engineering is proposed as a solution to the complexity versus reliability problem, and as a challenge to the young engineer."
"A detailed investigation of the probable mode of propagation in vhf operation over mountain obstacles has been made. Theory indicates that tremendous gains in received signal strength-above those obtained over a smooth spherical earth-may be expected from diffraction over an appropriate knife edge located in the path. Experimental verification of the principles involved is reported. In addition, the fading was found to be small and even essentially nonexistent on certain very long obstructed paths."
"Unipolar \"field-effect\" transistors of a type suggested by W. Shockley have been constructed and tested. The idealized theory of Shockley has been extended to cover the actual geometries involved, and design nomographs are presented. It is found that these structures can be designed in such a way as to yield a negative resistance at the input terminals. The characteristics of several units are presented and analyzed. It is shown that these characteristics are in substantial agreement with the extended theory. Finally a speculative evaluation of the possible future applications of field effect transistors is made."
"The NTSC color-synchronization signal is reviewed to determine its operational quality. A subjective testing system is then described which dissects various receiver functions such that the thermal-noise impairment in each function may be evaluated. Results of these subjective tests show that color-synchronization performance is completely adequate under conditions of thermal-noise interference. The tests also show that the limiting factors of performance are primarily those functions which are common to monochrome transmission."
"A theoretical study of various small signal parameters of transistors shows that the set of parameters which is most appropriate for the description of the circuit operation of junction transistors differs from the set which is customarily measured for point contact transistors. A uniform method for measuring both sets of parameters is described in detail and the sources of error inherent in this method are discussed."
"A simple method is described for setting up the node (or mesh) equations for vacuum tube and transistor circuits. The method is based on the use of admittance (or impedance) coefficients tables for the vacuum tube and the transistor. It does not involve the replacement of the vacuum tube and the transistor by their equivalent circuits, and hence does not require a redrawing of the circuit diagram. With the aid of the tables, the node (or mesh) equations are set up directly from inspection of the circuit diagram and without the use of any intermediate steps."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe quantitatively the design of a magnetic shift register. The article is divided into 3 sections as follows: A. A qualitative description of magnetic shift register operation. B. The design of a magnetic shift register. C. The effects of leakage inductance on stability and maximum speed of operation of a magnetic shift register. In section B, the equivalent impedance concept discussed in a previous article by the author is used in the quantitative analysis of a magnetic shift register. Optimum design conditions are derived and variations from optimum design discussed. In section C, the maxmum and minimum allowable values of leakage inductance are found such that the shift register remains stable and information is reliably transferred from core to core. February 9, 1953."
"To obtain a clearer insight into the design of velocity modulated tubes, a more complete understanding of the bunching process is required. A theory, to be useful in the design of high power tubes, should include the effects of space charge and large signals. Although such a theory has not yet been developed, a small signal theory, due to Feenberg, including the effects of space charge, has been obtained for some useful physical configurations. This paper deals with the experimental confirmation of this theory and the determination of its range of validity. Numerous experiments were devised to check the various aspects of the theory, and results of these are presented. Tests were made on a conventional two-cavity klystron with a cylindrical drift-tube and gridless gaps at the cavities. Transverse motion of the electrons was constrained by a large axial magnetic field. The extrapolation of the theory beyond its obvious range of validity is shown to be accurate even for large values of the bunching parameter such as to include the first peak of the output current."
"A graphical analysis based on the original work of Deschamps is presented for obtaining the scattering matrix of a two-port waveguide junction from standing-wave measurements. The section may have losses, and can be asymmetrical. In addition, a method is outlined whereby the reflection coefficient of a load terminating the junction can be obtained graphically from the measurement of the reflection coefficient as seen through the junction."
"A 3-terminal circuit element, that has properties similar to those of a gyrator, is described. A method is derived to realize such an element with any unilateral transducer such as a vacuumtube or a transistor. The effect of loading a gyrator by admittors in parallel or in series with its terminals is investigated. It is also shown that suitable loading of a gyrator may transform it into another gyrator of different gyrating admittance."
"Cathode-ray storage tubes are subject to interference which is caused by secondary electron flow between storage locations. A method of reducing this interference by modulating the cathode-ray tube differently during \"action\" and \"regeneration\" periods is described. This modulation builds up during \"regeneration\" periods a negative charge barrier around each spot. The negative charge barrier in turn reduces the flow of secondary electrons from one spot to adjacent spots during \"action\" periods. This results in decreased secondary electron flow from one storage location to another during \"action\" periods at the expense of increased secondary electron flow between storage locations during \"regeneration\" periods. Thus advantage is taken of the fact that practical computer stores can tolerate during \"regeneration\" periods redistribution currents between adjacent storage locations of the order of 100 times those flowing during \"action\" periods."
"This paper describes a system of stagger-tuned high-Q loop antennas designed for 100 kc Loran pulse reception. The individual loop antenna outputs are first added in a summing amplifier followed by a grounded-grid amplifier and a cathode-follower stage before being fed to the receiver. Based upon preliminary theoretical analysis, an experimental antenna array is developed, which confirms its capability of achieving a wide bandwidth with relatively small dimensions. A squaring scheme of obtaining omnidirectional reception property is suggested; and a modified electrolytic tank method, which is adaptable to the present system in synthesizing a given response characteristic, is also described."
"As a supplement to the Kryloff and Bogoliuboff method of determining amplitude of oscillation in quasilinear systems, a method based upon energy balance is presented. From the energy balance condition, a criterion for stability of oscillation is deduced for the case of one degree of freedom. The treatment is then generalized to systems of n degrees of freedom, and the n stability criteria are derived in terms of rates of change, with respect to amplitude, of the power supplied and dissipated in the n oscillations"
"Recent improvements in microwave techniques have resulted in precise measurements which indicate that the conventional constants K1 = 79°K/mb and K2′=4,800°K in the expression for the refractivity of air, N=(n-1) 106=[K1/T](p+ K2'e/T) should be revised. Various laboratories appear to have arrived at this conclusion independently. In much of radio propagation work the absolute value of the refractive index of the atmosphere is of small moment. However, in some work it is important and it seems highly desirable to decide upon a particular set of constants. Through consideration of the various recent experiments this paper arrives at a relation 77.6 e N = ~ p + 4,810-T T where p=total pressure in millibars e=partial pressure of water vapor in millibars T=absolute temperature=°C+273 This expression is considered to be good to 0.5 per cent in N for frequencies up to 30,000 mc and normally encountered ranges of temperatures, pressure and humidity."
"This paper illustrates a method for reducing the forced-dynamic error in servomechanisms by design based on error coefficients. After a brief review of the dependence of the forced dynamic error upon error coefficients, the relationship between error coefficients and the parameters of a servomechanism is derived. This relationship is then used to show how closed-loop systems can be modified to obtain favorable error coefficients that reduce the forced-dynamic error. The method has been tested by simulation, and photographs of simulator response show how the effect of additional integrations can be achieved by error-coefficient adjustment."
"The general solution for the important design parameters of an automatic frequency and phase-control system is presented. These parameters include the transient response, frequency response and noise bandwidth of the system, as well as the hold-in range and pull-in range of synchronization."
"A wide-band phase-delay circuit can be constructed provided phase delay is made to depend on both differences in length and differences in cutoff frequencies of the waveguides of the circuit."
"This paper describes the basic feedback coder; that is, a device which converts an analog quantity such as a voltage into a digital quantity such as a binary number by the feedback method. The basic feedback coder consists of a decoding device or network together with an error amplifier and control circuits. The decoding network and its operation as a feedback element to produce a coding system are described in terms of a number system having any base, b. The particular case of a binary coder (base 2) is considered in detail. In addition, feedback coding systems employing a binary coded decimal number system are discussed. The advantages and disadvantages of the feedback method as compared to other coding methods are discussed. A method of nonlinear coding (or signal compression) directly in the coding process is presented."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Expressions are derived for input resistance, output resistance and ratio of input to output voltage and current at low frequencies for transmission in both the base-to-emitter and the emitter-to-base directions. These expressions are extended to the carrier frequency range (up to approximately twice the alpha-cutoff frequency) by considering the effect of the variation of alpha with frequency, of collector capacitance and of load capacitance. Experimental evidence is presented which verifies the equations obtained."
"The intent of the paper is to review all the known methods for measuring the constants of piezoelectric vibrators. The discussed methods are divided into two groups: routine measuring methods and laboratory measuring methods. The use of self-controlled oscillator circuits with the vibrators oscillating at their resonant frequency is recommended in the first group and the use of bridge circuits is recommended in the second group."
"Expressions are derived for error due to mismatch when a UHF or microwave power meter is calibrated by comparison with a standard power meter. Three different methods are considered: (a) alternate connection to a stable power source, (b) the use of a microwave junction which simultaneously supplies power to the uncalibrated power meter and the standard power meter in a known ratio, (c) alternate connection to a microwave junction. The relative merits of the methods are discussed. Expressions are derived for error due to mismatch when using a calibrated power meter in the following situations: (a) direct connection of power meter to power source, (b) reduction of power into the power meter by means of an attenuator, (c) reduction of power into the power meter by means of a directional coupler."
"A synchronized transistor switching circuit has been designed for use in computer applications. The circuit is phase bistable rather than amplitude bistable. The basic unit of the circuit is a commutating ring which is operated by clock pulses and which is sampled at one-half the repetition rate of the clock. An input pulse changes the phase of the ring with respect to the sample pulses. This is analogous to a change in the output amplitude of a conventional amplitude bistable device caused by introduction of an input pulse. The basic transistor circuit used is the one-shot multivibrator. The latter device has proved to be more reliable than any amplitudebistable transistor circuit. In section I are presented some features of a transistor switching circuit. Section II contains a simplified description of the phase-bistable circuit and its mode of operation. In section III is described the transistor circuitry, while in section IV some general applications to digital computers are discussed."
"An analysis of the transient response of transistor amplifiers necessitates the consideration of transit-time effects. Transit-time phenomena may be represented by a transmission line in the equivalent circuit of a transistor. However, such an equivalent circuit would lead to unwieldy algebraic expressions in network analysis. This paper illustrates an approximation technique which results in simple Laplace transforms in the transient-response calculations for junction-transistor amplifiers. Theoretical results based upon this analysis are in good agreement with experiment."
"A general mathematical spectrum analysis of pulse series is discussed and applied to develop a slide-rule-type analyzer to give a pictorial presentation of the frequency spectrum. This method is very rapid and permits an overall evaluation of the spectrum. The analyzer, however, does not permit the determination of spectra for pulses having frequency modulation."
"A method is presented for the realization of a general transfer impedance as an open-circuited lattice. The method is a simple one based on a partial-fraction expansion of the given function. No restriction other than that of physical realizability is placed on the function to be realized; thus both minimum-phase and nonminimum-phase functions are realizable by this method. A part of the method allows control over the Q's of the coils used in the final network. The achieved lattice has the significant features of requiring no mutual inductance and no perfect coils, that is, every inductance appears with an associated series resistance so that in building the network low-Q coils may be used."
"The equations characterizing a systems problem may be expressed as a network of directed branches. (The block diagram of a servomechanism is a familiar example.) A study of the topological properties of such graphs leads to techniques which have proven useful, both for the discussion of the general theory of feedback and for the solution of practical analysis problems."
"The correlation technique is applied experimentally to determine the power density spectra of the output of two non-linear devices, the linear and square-law rectifiers. Curves of the input and output autocorrelation functions obtained experimentally for inputs of filtered noise with and without a sine wave are compared with the theoretically calculated curves, and thus an experimental check on some known theoretical results is obtained."
"The Haeff memory tube is modified by using a mesh-screen storage surface in combination with a relatively high-potential viewing screen. Electrons which pass through positive areas of the storage surface are therefore accelerated to produce an intensified image of the charge pattern. An image brightness of 70 fl has been demonstrated. Contrast, writing speed, resolution, persistence, and electrical output are discussed. Further development work is needed to produce more uniform storage screens, better electron guns, and to adapt the tubes for specific requirements."
"Expressions for the radiation field of axial and transverse slots in cylinders of elliptical cross-section are derived by a method based on diffraction theory and the principle of reciprocity. Radiation patterns of transverse slots and curves of radiation conductance are presented. It is shown that the radiation conductance is influenced considerably by the degree of curvature of the surface on which the slot is located."
"This paper presents rf index-of-refraction data for metallic delay-lens media containing square and circular obstacles. The equipment used in measuring this data is described, and the necessary correction formulas are given. The test specimens consisted of alternate layers of polyfoam spacers and thin polystyrene sheets imprinted with conducting obstacles. The data may be extended readily to other techniques of fabrication."
"A third degree function is presented giving in a hypothetical way the electronic density in the ionosphere as a function of height or distance to the earthcenter: by inserting appropriate values of the constants, in accordance with measured values from ionospheric sounding stations, it is possible to arrive at any desired or proposed form of distribution (Chapman, Hacke), though there is no physical base for this third degree curve given in this paper. This function allows, after substitution, to calculate exactly, i.e., without any approximation, traveling-time, reached maximum height, and reached distance on the earth's surface of a radio-ray radiated at a given angle. Briefly, the calculation of the ray-path in an ionosphere based on measured values and heights of ionization-maxima at the ionospheric stations and based on arbitrarily selected values of gradients, is shown to be possible."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the title page for this issue of the periodical."
"The AIEE Transactions for 1933 (volume 72) is published in three parts: Part I. Communication and Electronics; Part II. Applications and Industry; and Part III. Power Apparatus and Systems. The papers in each of the three parts are classified according to subject matter. Each part has been indexed separately in the back of that particular part. The three parts are not cross-referenced; hence the user should determine first whether the subject matter of the paper desired is in the field of communication and electronics, applications and industry, or power apparatus and systems. Papers are listed in the subject index under several key words in the titles. The original numbers assigned to the papers are given in the author index."
"This paper traces the history of early developments in the field of automatic speed and tie-line control and brings the picture up to date with a discussion of those problems which are still unsolved and which will require more mutual understanding and co-operation between the various engineers involved."
"The power factor on the Pacific Gas and Electric Company's transmission system has increased gradually in certain areas. This has been due largely to the growth of the high-voltage transmission line capacity and the increased use of unswitched capacitors which tend to bring about a high-voltage condition, particularly during light load periods. The ability to regulate system voltage by supplying underexcited kilovars from turbine generators has therefore become important. During May 1951 extensive tests were conducted at the Moss Landing Steam Plant of the Pacific Gas and Electric Company on two hydrogen-cooled 3,600-rpm units, one of which is rated 115,000 kva and the other 129,375 kva at 15- pound-per-square-inch-gauge hydrogen pressure. These tests were conducted as a joint venture with the General Electric Company and the objective was to determine limits of operation in the leading power factor range and thereby establish the basis for safe operating procedures under these conditions."
"In 1945, a systematic program aimed at reducing the noise level of their small and medium size 2-pole turbine generators was undertaken by the company with which the authors are associated. Factory tests on over 110 air-cooled generators ranging from 1,000-kw to 12,500-kw rating indicate that the average noise level of this line of machines has been reduced over 6 decibels. This noise level reduction has been brought about primarily by reducing sound energy transmission. One of the most important methods of reducing sound transmission is to keep the natural mechanical frequency of any part well away from any of the forcing frequencies. A discussion is given of the analytical work, the design program, the test equipment, and the development of a test procedure for obtaining consistent test results. The methods used in this program are general, and are applicable to the reduction of noise generated by other electrical apparatus."
"The study that follows illustrates the changes in air gap, leakage and commutating fluxes, constant flux linkage, and bar-to-bar voltages. Eddy-current effects are treated showing their influence on flux change with emphasis of the effect on leakage and commutating fluxes. An evaluation of the error that may be expected when obtaining the air-gap flux by applying the constant flux linkage theorem is presented."
"The phenomenon of self-excitation, often met in commutator machines, will be investigated for the metadyne case. Methods of stabilization that are incorporated as built-in features also will be discussed. For the purpose of checking the analysis, an experimental verification is carried out for several metadyne configurations. Actual steady-state and transient characteristics are given and compared with calculated analytical results. The extent of the validity of the assumptions basic to the analysis is evaluated in the light of these experimental results. The analysis will disclose characteristics of the metadyne which differ greatly from the conventional types of d-c machines, and which therefore can be useful for many applications. Attention will be focused on the inherent high response rate of many metadyne configurations."
"Part of an interconnected power system with a total capacity of 281 megawatts in ten hydro and six steamgenerating plants, Calgary Power Ltd. operates eight hydro plants totalling 156 megawatts and a steam plant of 10 megawatts. Calgary Power Ltd. plans centralized control of the eight existing hydro plants and the transformer and switching stations on its main 138-kv transmission system. Six of the plants and their substations are now in operation as unattended plants controlled from a central dispatching station. Representing almost two-thirds of the company's generating capacity, they range in size from 4 to 50 megawatts. A 30-megawatt and a 20- megawatt plant are in process of conversion to remote operation."
"The theory is offered that the primary factor which determines the unit dielectric strength of commercial oil of controlled quality around electrodes of different geometries is the volume of that oil under stress. The reason is basically statistical. For small volumes of oil, such as test cups, statistical variations are large and unit dielectric strengths are high. For large volumes at high spacings, such as in large power equipment, lower unit dielectric strengths must be recognized, but statistical reliability and reproducibility are greatly improved. In calculations, statistical extrapolations can be eliminated by computing an equivalent volume of oil under stress and obtaining the dielectric strength from test data on a sphere gap with the same equivalent volume. Ignoring everything but the change in dielectric strength with volume, the calculation method checks the fundamental curves in Peek's 1915 empirical data with surprisingly good accuracy. Included are changes in dielectric strength with: 1. the radii of spheres, 2. the separation of spheres, and 3. the changed geometry from spheres to cylinders."
"A new line of improved outdoor oil circuit breakers for 14.4-, 23-, and 34.5-kv service, integrating many years of operating experience into designs stressing reduced maintenance, is now available. Cognizance of the rising costs of power-system maintenance has resulted in the development of a circuit-breaker line not only designed to incorporate performance improvements but also designed to provide low maintenance costs. This paper outlines the objectives established to guide the design program and describes the improved line of oil circuit breakers. Low oil carbonization and decreased contact erosion have been effected by the reduced arcing times of the new interrupters. Inspection and adjustment time have been minimized on interrupter and mechanism assemblies. Accessibility has been increased by simplification of the circuit-breaker framework and linkages. Improved insulation features are provided in bushings and in current transformers. The performance of all ratings has been proved by an extensive test program."
"This paper describes the design and construction of a particular testing transformer, custom-built to meet requirements imposed by its use in high-voltage short-circuit testing of circuit breakers, fuses, disconnect switches, and so forth, at the new high-capacity switchgear testing laboratory' of the General Electric Company. While some of the problems usually encountered in power transformer designs were reduced to insignificance by specific requirements, others were magnified to the extent that normal construction was out of the question. Consequently, the design is quite special and includes a number of unusual features which are described herein."
"This paper covers the operating experiences with the automatic and supervisory control from a System Control Center of the Calgary Power Ltd. hydroelectric system; some design features are given in a companion paper.' The purpose of the paper is to prove the feasibility of a complete hydroelectric system consisting of unattended automatic plants and substations under the control of a System Control Center as regards service, property, and economics. It is hoped its context will be of value to engineers and utility executives contemplating similar projects."
"This paper describes a simplified method for calculating the performance of permanent-magnet generators using equations, concepts, and units familiar to the designer of conventional a-c generators. The equations and curves permit the calculation of open-circuit voltage, transient performance, short-circuit current, synchronous impedance, and voltage regulation for various power factors. Leakage equations are presented for the most common type of permanent-magnet generator."
"This paper reports on a method of precise water temperature measurements with an electric resistance thermometer and recorder and its application as a frazil ice warning system for hydroelectric stations. The fine needle-like ice that is often distributed throughout a volume of moving water or is formed in water cooled below the normal freezing point (32 degrees Fahrenheit or 0 degree centigrade) is called \"frazil ice.\" It is the cause of considerable trouble in the operation of hydro power stations, water works, and other power stations that depend on an uninterrupted water supply. When reliable warning of the impending ice formation can be obtained, adequate steps may, in some instances, be taken to minimize its effect on station capacity. A graphic record of water temperature has been found a reliable means of predicting the formation."
"This paper proposes the accurate determination of both leakage reactance and rotor resistance values for an exact T network for polyphase induction motor of normal design by use of slip-current power measurements without locked rotor test. By a suitable choice of variables, no interpolation is necessary. The method suggests also an accurate way of checking leakage reactance as calculated by designers."
"Field test data are presented and a simplified high-voltage d-c method for determining the condition of the insulation in large electric apparatus is described. A graphical presentation is shown whereby the characteristic shape of the curve of the d-c microamperes versus d-c kilovolts is utilized as the indicator of the condition. This method has been under experimental observation for several years and the technique now has reached a stage where it has been adopted as the primary means for testing and determining the condition of the electrical insulation of large rotating machinery. All indications point out that predictions as to the life expectancy of electrical insulation, in large rotating machinery and other apparatus, may be possible after years of testing and recording the trend of the characteristic curves. This should aid very materially in setting up a program of planned maintenance and help to answer the question: when to rewind, repair, or replace old electric apparatus."
"A new regulated excitation system in which magnetic amplifiers replace rotating amplifiers has been developed. This paper outlines the philosophy employed in designing the new system and describes the system in detail. Test data is presented showing the superior performance which has been obtained."
"This paper presents the results of laboratory and field studies of the life of lead cable sheath as affected by mechanical movement. New developments in methods of training, supporting, and jointing to prolong sheath life are discussed. A possible solution to the problem of repair of field failures is described."
"This bibliography has been subdivided into groups covering the different types of electric couplings according to the definitions proposed by the AIEE Electric Coupling Subcommittee: Induction Couplings (Ship Propulsion Type Couplings & Eddy Current Type Couplings); Synchronous Couplings; Hysteresis Couplings; Magnetic-Friction Couplings; Magnetic-Particle Couplings. The titles have been classified into four major categories: General Theory - T; Research and Development - R; Design - D; Application - A. No attempt has been made to make the bibliography cover specific design details such as resistances, reactances, iron losses, and so forth. It is believed that for the present such references can be located in the general Bibliography of Rotating-Machinery, 1886-1947, AIEE Publication S32 (January 1950)."
"Sulfur hexafluoride, a stable gas which is markedly superior to air in dielectric strength, is shown to be superior to an even higher degree as an arc-quenching atmosphere. The a-c interrupting ability of plain-break arcs in SF6 is in the order of 100 times that of similar arcs in air. Limiting current values for plain-break interruption increase in a roughly linear manner with both arc length and gas pressure. Results with SF6 air mixtures lie between those for the pure gases. Large improvement over the plain-break results may be obtained by moderate rates of forced gas flow through the arc space. The experimental results obtained so far give promise of practical usefulness for SF6 in sealed interrupters for moderate currents at high voltages."
"The operating mechanism of a power circuit breaker must give consistent and exacting performance under the most rigorous conditions. Therefore it is important to select the most suitable design for use with the new high-capacity high-voltage oil circuit breakers. Mechanism designs have changed over the years to match circuit-breaker and industry requirements. They now must be adapted to meet the requirements of these new circuit breakers which will require special consideration of certain characteristics: higher output, shorter instantaneous reclosing times with multiple-duty cycles, higher speed tripping, and increased reliability. This paper discusses the various methods available to obtain these objectives and illustrates the conclusions reached by describing a mechanism design which incorporates them and which already has found wide usage."
"The aging performance of dry-type transformer insulating systems is shown to be dependent not only on the materials used but to a large extent on the gas medium in which they are operated. This gas medium may retard or accelerate aging because of its chemical reaction with the base materials and their impregnants. Data are presented which show the effect of gas mediums such as air and nitrogen. The classification of insulations by chemical content with the designations A, B, and H are shown to be no longer significant; the assignment of a temperature limit to an insulating system is to be preferred. Also, the aging effect of periodically introducing specified quantities of dry air or high humidity air into insulating systems operated in a nitrogen atmosphere is shown to have a very minor influence on insulation aging. For the first time, extensive data are presented on silicone insulations subjected to thermal aging and periodically tested at high dielectric stresses. Previous data on thermal aging of silicones have been limited to tests on motors which for the most part operate at low dielectric stresses."
"The stability of transformer oil inhibited with 2,6-di-tertiary-butyl-paracresol (DBPC) under arcing conditions in oil circuit reclosers has been studied. Oil containing 0.3 per cent DBPC and the uninhibited base oil were subjected to arcing in 15-kv distribution-class oil circuit reclosers. Studies were made of the oil properties to determine the comparative stability of the inhibited and uninhibited oils. It is concluded that there is no essential difference in the stability of oil inhibited with 0.3 per cent DBPC and uninhibited oil under arcing conditions."
"Recovery rate is the term applied to the rate at which voltage rises across a circuit breaker immediately following interruption. Before high-voltage air-blast circuit breakers can be economically applied, a thorough knowledge of the relationships between circuit-breaker duties and recovery rates on systems is necessary. Whereas the performance of the modern oil circuit breaker is relatively unaffected by circuit recovery rate, the authors have found that this factor has a very significant effect on the performance of the radial-type air-blast circuit breaker. Using the minimum pressure required to produce successful interruption as a measure of circuit severity on the circuit breaker, an empirical relationship correlating the influence of both current and recovery rates has been found. As shown by this relationship, reduction of the inherent recovery rates by using linear resistors may be desirable in those circuits possessing unusually high rates. Until the relationships between system recovery rates and circuit-breaker duties have been correlated, it is advisable to apply these circuit breakers only where these factors and the circuit-breaker characteristics are both understood."
"This paper describes the initial step in the development of a line of high-voltage high-capacity steel-clad impulse oil circuit breakers required to fulfill the increased interrupting duty requirements of the industry at 138 kv, 161 kv, 230 kv, and 330 kv. Primarily this paper describes the development of the circuit breaker required for the 161-kv 10,000-megavolt-ampere rating. The circuit-breaker design provides for the first time the impulse principle of interruption in a tank-type circuit breaker and in addition combines several of the proved features of modern high- and low-voltage outdoor circuit breakers. These elements are basically flexible enough to be extended readily to increased interrupting ratings and to higher and lower voltage levels. Complete electrical and mechanical design tests demonstrated that the circuit breaker meets all industry standards with ample margins of safety. Tests at the new switchgear development laboratory on all types of interrupting duty produced consistently short interrupting times over the entire current range. Various charging currents corresponding to the equivalent of up to 400 miles of 161-kv transmission line were switched with no restrikes. These tests have demonstrated that the design equalled the performance of the low-oil-content impulse circuit breaker and was flexible enough to provide the necessary starting point for designing an entirely new line of high-voltage high-capacity circuit breakers."
"This paper describes a completely redesigned inverse time overcurrent induction-type relay. The principal goals sought in this new version of an old familiar relay were: (1) improved accuracy, (2) adjustability of the characteristic current-time curves, not only to meet the prescribed curve within close tolerances but also to provide as wide a spread as possible of other obtainable curve shapes, and (3) simplification and improvement of mechanical design, such as the elimination of gears, and a truly adjustable permanent magnet. This paper describes a relay in which these goals were met, see Figure 1."
"Several improvements have recently been made to increase the operating speed and accuracy of the a-c network calculator. Load circuits are now set independently by using the portable load-setting console. New master instrument scales lead directly in system values. The greater sensitivity of the instrument amplifier makes it more accurate. The operator no longer has to select the correct range on the instruments because the automatic scale selector now does this for him, thereby allowing more time for interpretation of the board data."
"Transformer cooling equipment should be operated for maximum utilization of both the transformer and its cooling equipment. The term \"transformer cooling equipment\" refers in particular to the auxiliary fans that are applied to transformer radiators for cooling the radiator tubes. Many power transformers use auxiliary cooling fans to obtain increased ratings. It is desirable to operate these fans only when load and temperature conditions require the additional cooling. This is accomplished by automatic control of the fans from the transformer oil or winding temperature. This paper discusses the methods for obtaining satisfactory control of the cooling fans on oil-immersed air-cooled/forced-air-cooled (OA/FA) and oil-immersed air-cooled/forced-air-cooled/forced-air-cooled (OA/FA/FA) transformers only. The fans are considered to be actuated by a thermal image device simulating winding hot-spot temperature. The resulting conclusions apply only to the use of fans as auxiliary cooling equipment."
"Problems regarding breakdown and corona voltage arise in the design of transformers and other types of equipment. It is necessary to design the equipment to eliminate or at least minimize the possibility of breakdown or corona. In particular breakdown takes place more readily from sharp corners. Three practical examples of sharp corners from which breakdown or corona may occur are abstracted into one for general use of a sharp corner for discussion purposes. This article is intended to cover possible general methods of solution to such problems. Problems involving square corners are common, and at first sight would seem to be extremely difficult to solve. However, because of the fact that the breakdown or corona value follows from a given voltage drop for a given distance from the corner, the relations for square corners in a single plane are found relatively easily. If breakdown data for the simple reference condition are found, complicated arrangements, still involving square corners, can be solved by the use of form factors. These can be determined mathematically or by field plots. Such determinations may enable experimental work on actual models to be reduced or accomplished more systematically. Although square corners have been emphasized, the development is as easily applicable to corners having any angle and, with more complications, may be extended to cases with rounded corners."
"Knowledge of the natural frequencies of air-core and iron-core coils and of transformer and generator windings is of essential theoretical and practical importance. In this paper an equivalent circuit method is derived for the computation of all the natural frequencies of interest of both air-core and iron-core coils. This method takes into account all mutual inductance linkages, which usually have been neglected in the literature. Neglect of mutual inductance linkages leads to computed frequencies which do not agree with the measured frequencies. It is therefore necessary to consider the mutual inductance linkages in the computation of the natural frequencies of coils and windings. The equivalent circuit with all mutual inductance linkages may be solved by punch-card equipment, or by setting up an appropriate circuit on the a-c network analyzer. Both methods of solution are accurate; either one may be preferable in practice, depending upon the circumstances. The natural frequencies of a coil with air and iron core and different capacitive parameters, computed in this manner, are compared with the measured frequencies. Agreement between computed and measured values is excellent for the first seven harmonics of the air-core coil, and for the first three harmonics of the iron-core coil."
"A new line of apparatus, featuring flexibility, has now been designed to give more functions in a given spectrum under operating conditions encountered in the field. This new line of apparatus contains frequency shift equipment, relaying equipment, and communications equipment. The frequency shift equipment is designed for operation with impulse rate duration, and frequency-type telemetering; for load and supervisory control; for remote and transfer trip; and for teletype. The relaying equipment is suitable for both distance and phase comparison relaying, with push-to-talk communications and other auxiliary functions. The communications equipment is suitable for manual and automatic switched single-frequency operation, and 2-frequency duplex operation, with both code bell and dial signaling. New designs of line coupling tuners and tone equipment to be used with this line have been previously completed. This redesign program was undertaken to accomplish the following eight objectives: 1. Use of new improved components and circuits; 2. Reduction of size of equipment and complete assemblies; 3. Obtaining more channels to relieve frequency crowding; 4. Improved performance at lower cost; 5. Greater reliability; 6. Satisfactory performance under conditions of supply voltage variation and noise experienced in the field; 7. Reduction of radiation and spurious signals; and 8. To offer a complete line of tested standard assemblies of apparatus to meet electric utility needs."
"This application guide summarizes usual methods of grounding of generator systems, and discusses considerations in applying each grounding method to various types of generator systems. The guide applies to generator systems operating at 11 kv and above, but in general it is also applicable to generator systems operating at voltages below 11 kv. In preparing the guide, the committee recognized that some suggestions and recommendations are in conflict with the grounding practices utilized successfully by some operating companies. It should be borne in mind, however, that the report is intended solely as a guide, and its recommendations and suggestions are necessarily of a general nature and cannot take into account the special requirements of any specifi' situation."
"It has been customary in calculating the temperature rise of cables in duct to take account of the nature of the load cycle, since this has the effect of reducing the temperature rise from that which would result if the load were maintained continuously at a constant value. With the advent of pipe-cable systems and the increased use of directly buried cables in the United States, the problem naturally arises as to how to calculate the effect of the load cycle in these cases as well. This matter is discussed at some length in an AlEE conunittee report (ibid., vol. 70, pt. I, 1951, pages 45-52). While this report presents the results of many calculations of the effect of various loss cycles on a number of typical cable systems, it does not offer a simplified procedure for making such calculations. This paper presents such a procedure. The procedure involves merely the determination of the internal thermal resistance of the cable system in conventional manner, and adding to it the effective external thermal resistance as given in a table as a function of cable diameter and loss factor. By the use of simple nomographs, the procedure is made to include the effects of changing the earth constants, depth of burial, or frequency of the loss cycle. A rigorous straightforward method of solution of the temperature rise under sinusoidal loss cycles is also given for use where additional accuracy is required."
"This paper endeavors to describe a method for determining the temperature of a buried cable as the load cycle varies and how it is possible to determine the attainment factor for a variable load. It is not necessary to go through the detailed calculations for each case as was done for the paper in order to show that various types of systems and different load cycles follow a pattern that can be expressed in a single equation. It is recognized that this empirical method for determining the transient temperature of a buried cable is not as exact as the strict mathematical analysis, yet it gives results that can be accepted practically and as accurate as the accuracy of the thermal constants that are used."
"The equation of heat conduction for a cylindrical fuse wire is considered, and approximate solutions are given for the case of a simple cartridge fuse to show the variation of the temperature distribution along the element for different fusing currents and different cartridge dimensions. The melting period is examined analytically, and it is shown how, above a certain current density, the element begins melting from the surface inwards instead of from the inside outwards. This mechanism depends on a variation of the melting temperature over the cross section caused by the \"pinch\" pressure. If the inside melts first, breakup is due to the internal pressure produced and is irregular; if the surface melts first, the breakup depends on the parameters of the molten metal. A general theory, from Lord Rayleigh, for the breakup of a liquid cylinder under surface forces is applied to the latter case, and criteria of size are established for the parameters so that the element will break up in a regular fashion to form a definite number of globules, and so that the element will break up irregularly at infrequent intervals."
"Transmission line design engineers are always confronted with the problem of determining sags and tensions in overhead transmission lines. The general problem is more complicated for greatly inclined and long spans. This paper proposes a new and direct method for calculating sags and tensions which is simple and accurate for greatly inclined and long spans. The method, while both graphical and analytical in nature, has been based directly on the catenary relations. It has been based on a set of curves developed by the author and designated as the C curves relating the values of C for different temperature conditions. The sag and tension at any temperature and for any particular span can be determined by the intersection of an auxiliary curve associated with the temperature and the proper C curve. An example of the C curve is given."
"A method is described of reducing the core flux of a current transformer by supplying the necessary voltage to the secondary circuit. For one load current, the flux may be eliminated, giving zero errors, and at other loads the ratio and phase angle are so small as to be difficult to detect in many cases. Applied to reasonably good transformers, extremely high accuracies are obtained, with small weight and bulk. The scope of low ratio bushing-type transformers is also increased, but the addition of triple-frequency auxiliary flux still further extends the use of the method, and test results are given for ratios down to 20/5 amperes."
"The first six papers of this symposium were presented at the AIEE Middle Eastern District Meeting, Toledo, OH, USA, October 28-30, 1952. They were deferred from Volume 71 of the 1952 AIEE Transactions by request of the Committee on Rotating Machinery so that they could be published together with the seventh paper by John J. Courtin, which summarizes and compares the different test results reported in each of the papers, and which was presented at. the AIEE North Eastern District Meeting, Boston, MA, USA, April 29 - May 1, 1953."
"This work has four chief objectives. The first objective is to compute the impedance of the rotor for a particular motor as accurately as possible. The second objective is to find out how the labor can be shortened without sacrificing accuracy. The third is to extend procedures to apply conveniently to any double-cage motor. The fourth is to increase our knowledge of locked saturation for motors with closed circular slots. The particular motor discussed is the 75-horsepower 440-volt three-phase 1,800-rpm one built by Westinghouse Electric Corporation. The data given apply to the rotor only. The rotor has a diameter of 11.018 inches and is stacked to 8 inches. It is punched with 50 identical slots; the form and dimensions are shown. It is die cast with aluminum of 50% conductivity and has end rings. The end rings have an outside diameter of 10.94 inches, an inside diameter of 7.69 inches, and a conducting axial dimension of 0.5 inch."
"This paper presents a lumped circuit method of calculating the performance of multiple squirrel-cage motors. For convenience, the squirrel cage is represented by three parallel circuits, in place of the two circuits conventionally employed. In this way, allowance is made for eddy currents within the separate bars, as well as the division of currents between bars, with a minimum of mathematical analysis. The method permits convenient allowance for saturation effects, which change the reactances of the various circuit elements over the speed and current range of the motor. As an example, the method is applied to calculating the performance of a simple rectangular bar. The results are shown to compare favorably with those given by the conventional skin effect theory. As another example, the method is used to calculate the speed torque and current curves of a 4-pole 75-horsepower motor, with a cast aluminum double squirrel-cage winding."
"Autotransformers with variable turns-ratio are at present in widespread use in testing and research laboratories, as they produce an a-c supply whose voltage may be varied easily with but negligible losses. The autotransformer's theory is developed by deriving analytically its characteristic triangle, that is, its numerical ohmic and reactive inherent voltage drops. The ohmic component is found directly from the connection's diagram. The reactive component is derived by calculating the autotransformer's stray field energy. The iron of the magnetic core is assumed to be perfectly permeable. It allows the actual core, made in the form of a hollow cylinder, to be contracted to an infinitesimal width. The winding, too, is replaced by a currents-carrying cylindrical surface. The end effects are neglected and the whole problem is converted into a 2-dimensional one. A solution of the Laplace equation of the vector potential with due regard to the boundary conditions yields the stray field's energy. The inherent numerical voltage regulation, short-circuit currents, and power factor are given as functions of the turns-ratio. The current, in a single short-circuited turn, proves to be very high (about 15 times the rated current). This makes it necessary to provide the sliding brush with a fairly high resistance."
"The leakage-voltage characteristics of several dry-type insulating materials in the form of sheets, tapes, and insulated bar specimens were investigated. Electrode arrangements were such that conditions of volume leakage, surface creepage, and combinations of both were observed. The characteristics thus obtained were plotted and the accuracy of breakdown forecast, based on extrapolation of this curve, was observed. Based on these tests and the results of work reported by other investigators, some conclusions are drawn relative to the possible usefulness of this test method in forecasting nondestructively the breakdown of machine insulation."
"The importance of continuity of service in modern power systems demands that current transformers for operation of meters and control devices be properly applied and designed to give high accuracy, trouble-free operation, and long life. Unlike most other types of apparatus, current transformers have negligible reactance to limit short-circuit currents and therefore are occasionally subjected to exceedingly high overcurrents. Under such conditions, an internal failure may result in excessively high pressures within a fraction of a cycle. Improved materials, new manufacturing and testing techniques, and novel features of design are utilized in a new liquid-filled current transformer to meet these exacting requirements. The new transformer is designed to be stronger mechanically than previous models, in addition to having high metering accuracy, improved sealing against entrance of moisture, and higher corona-starting voltages. One of the features of this design is its ability to relieve excessive internal pressure, should it occur. This feature is so combined with other component parts of the transformer that they mutually co-operate to insulate, to hold mechanically in position, to reduce expansion, and to relieve excessive pressure."
"The installed cost per kilovar of secondary capacitors is approximately twice as much as the installed cost per kilovar of primary capacitors. This factor alone makes the use of secondary capacitors appear prohibitive. However, secondary capacitors offer benefits not obtainable with primary capacitors that can more than offset this high-cost ratio. This paper presents a new method of determining when secondary capacitors are economically justified."
"The transient temperature rise of a cable system under a constant load, that is, the manner in which the temperature of the conductor rises with time after the constant load is applied, is a matter of considerable interest to cable engineers, since it may serve as a basis for short time ratings, and for the determination of the temperature variations with a varying load. Although these determinations are most readily made by means of an analogue computer nevertheless there is need for rnathematical methods of determining this basic constant-load-temperature transient. This paper presents a simplified mathematical procedure which it is believed suffers only from the actual procedure, apart from theory, being extremely intricate and laborious. In this respect only is it limited to a degree. While a portion of the procedure is admittedly somewhat laborious, the computations re quired in this part involving the application of vector algebra are such that they may be done by an engineering assistant who need not necessarily be familiar with cable engineering."
"Significant progress in the analysis of transmission losses has been made in the past several years by the development of transmission loss formulas which express losses in terms of plant and interconnection loadings. These loss formulas have been of great value in such problems as economic scheduling of generation interconnected system billing, and system planning. In 1951 a new method of deriving a transmission loss formula was described, which required considerably less network analyzer measurements and arithmetic calculations. This paper presents further simplifications and improvements in the calculation of transmission loss formulas, and is intended to provide a simple exposition of the calculating procedure involved in calculating a loss formula. This paper will also discuss the application of a small automatic digital computer to the calculation of a loss formula. Use of this computer has resulted in substantially reducing the time required to calculate a loss formula."
"This paper gives a method of functionally evaluating insulation systems in 5-horsepower 440-volt 3-phase squirrel-cage motors. By this method it is possible to compare various insulating systems with acceptable standards in terms of the years of expected life at any selected operating temperature. A motor test station is described and a procedure is given for a test cycle involving periods of humidification and heat run. Various data on insulation systems under test are given as an example of what might be expected from this method."
"Grounding grids are used in high-voltage stations when rocky ground makes the use of driven ground rods impractical. The characteristics of grounding grids are investigated in this paper, and the results are applied to the basic design elements of this type of grounding system."
"A radically new method is developed for solving integrated transmission systems (as well as other types of extensive physical systems) without calculating the inverse of large matrices, or without using a large a-c analyzer. The physical system is torn up into several parts, each part is solved separately (either on an a-c analyzer or by a digital computer), and afterward the component solutions are interconnected into the solution of the original system by a series of transformations. The method is illustrated by establishing the individual and total loss equations of a power pool, whose component companies form several closed loops. A numerical example is worked out in a companion paper.1"
"Tests were carried out to determine to what extent gross mistreatment of sealed dry-type transformers with class H insulation might be expected to involve fire or explosion hazards. Sealed transformers containing no organic material other than a small quantity of semiorganic silicone varnish were overloaded to destruction and subjected to internal power arcs. Analysis of pressure and temperature measurements indicate that this type of transformer may be operated with practically no danger from fire or explosion."
"By experiment it was found, in an idealized soil, that a critical moisture content of approximately 4 per cent by weight separated two distinctly different phenomena whereby heat is dissipated from buried transmission cables or other heat sources. Above this moisture content relatively large quantities of heat per lineal foot can be dissipated by what appears to be a circulation phenomenon. Below this moisture content the soil rapidly dries out, materially decreasing the quantity of heat that can be dissipated. This last phenomenon may be the explanation of the so-called \"runaway condition\" observed in practice in connection with buried transmission cables."
"The purpose of this paper is to present a brief résumé of a rather comprehensive study concerning circuit-breaker operating mechanisms and to describe a new type of mechanism which depends on a combination of gas and liquid for its energy supply and transmission medium. The authors believe the new design is a definite improvement from the standpoint of overall cost and reliability, particularly for circuit breakers which now require heavy-duty spring or compressed-air operators."
"Because of the incongruity of establishing the impulse withstand level of most equipment on a 1.5x40- microsecond voltage wave and of not using the same wave shape for the discharge voltage of valve type arresters, questions have arisen. To help clarify the situation, several pertinent topics will be discussed. They include: 1. The shape of the arrester discharge volt-time curve produced by a 10x20 microsecond test current wave; 2. Its effect on co-ordination; 3. The effect of steeper front current wave tests on arrester discharge voltage; 4. Reasons for decreasing the 10-microsecond current wave front."
"This paper presents a pilot-wire relaying scheme which has been designed to take advantage of the product characteristic of the type-CFD relay. It operates as a variable-percentage differential-relaying scheme on light fault currents, and for all practical purposes as a phase-angle-comparison scheme on heavy fault currents. This scheme permits a wide latitude in the selection of current transformers and types of line terminations. It also provides protection of station equipment against high induced pilot-wire-to-ground voltages."
"Various types of 3-phase core arrangements were analyzed with relation to the distortion of the flux, resulting from the separation of the total flux of each coil into two separate flux paths. The results show a large third-harmonic flux in each component, which increases the eddy-current loss and causes a high percentage of harmonics in the exciting current. In general, such cores might become objectionable from a telephone interference stand-point, and the increased losses are a disadvantage from a manufacturing stand-point."
"A new line of improved bushing current transformers for modern oil circuit breakers has been developed incorporating increased knowledge in materials, manufacturing techniques, and construction methods. In the advancement of circuit breaker designs to meet the growing requirements of industry, the design of bushing current transformers has likewise been advanced to meet the demand for improved performance characteristics and for better construction features. This paper outlines the objectives established to guide the development program and describes the new line of bushing current transformers. Distributed windings and moisture resistant materials are the important new features of the transformers. A high degree of resistance to mechanical damage has been provided and impregnation processes have been eliminated. The new transformers are designed to meet American Standards Association (ASA) standards for multiratio transformers for class-L relaying accuracy. The performance characteristics and construction features have been proved by an extensive test program."
"This paper presents equations for the evaluation of harmonic content of the no-load output voltage of salient-pole a-c generators with both uniform and non-uniform air gaps. Results are presented in curve form for harmonics up to and including the 11th, making possible rapid determination of such harmonics."
"A rational method is given for estimating the torque speed curves of squirrel-cage motors during dynamic braking. An expression for average torque and one for peak torque are also developed. Results of the use of these are compared to results by previously published methods, with generally favorable conclusions. It is shown that squirrel-cage copper losses resulting from air-gap flux harmonics are much reduced at speeds below one-tenth of synchronous speed, with a consequent reduction of apparent rotor resistance. It is also inferred that inductor-generator action accounts for 20 to 30 per cent of the torque in the region of maximum torque. This paper is presented because no such rational method has yet been published and also because it is felt that the subject is timely in view of the increasing requirement of accuracy in the engineering of industrial controls."
"Dynamic braking is an effective method of controlling the speed of a wound rotor induction motor, when that motor is subjected to a driving torque such as occurs on a mine hoist application. The accurate prediction of the dynamic braking characteristics, at the design stage, is essential if adequate thermal capacity is to be built into the machine and if sufficient co-ordination with the control design is to be achieved. It is intended to present a method of calculating the dynamic braking characteristics of wound rotor induction motors at the design stage. In this method, the effects of saturation are considered."
"Insulation co-ordination is a major consideration in the cost and design of a complete electric power system and of all individual pieces of apparatus. Basic impulse insulation levels (BIL) have been standardized so that apparatus and protective equipment can be co-ordinated. These levels are measured by withstands on specified test waves. Depending upon the type of protective device and the physical arrangement of the station, short-time voltage surges having crests above the BIL may be present and will require special consideration to insure insulation co-ordination. To determine the short-time impulse voltage characteristic of tank-type oil circuit breakers, tests were made on a representative breaker. The conclusion is that the short-time impulse characteristic of the complete breaker is comparable to that of the bushing alone."
"As split-phase currents are the difference between two large load currents in theoretical balance, they exist only because necessary manufacturing tolerances prevent the attainment of theoretical balance, or because of winding faults. A rigorous treatment of the subject is not possible: this paper is therefore in the nature of a report of numerous tests that have been made to evaluate the nature and relative difference of these currents, as they may exist due to machine construction, external faults, and internal faults. It is supplemented with some data in respect to transformers and relays associated with the protective equipment."
"Correlation of research from scientific laboratories in Europe and America, together with accident records obtained from several nations, permits tentative criteria for the hazard from short shocks and impulse discharges. The hazard from short shocks, those obtainable from both power frequency circuits and apparatus capable of producing impulses, is believed primarily to exist because of the energy contained in the discharge; the crest of the initial current, quantity in the pulse, and shock duration being related quantities of secondary importance. Formulas for reducing the electric shock hazard to the proposed criteria for safety are derived for both surge discharges and impulses of an oscillatory nature. Applications of the formulas are illustrated with examples. It is anticipated that this study may be of value in establishing the hazard from industrial equipment capable of producing impulses, or in reducing the hazard; in evaluating the effectiveness of lightning grounds; and in other similar applications."
"This paper describes a further step in the development of a line of high-voltage high-capacity steel-clad impulse oil circuit breakers to fulfill the industry requirements for increased interrupting ratings at 138 kv, 161 kv, 230 kv, and 330 kv. The 230-kv 10,000-megavolt-ampere breaker introduced in this paper follows the design concepts formulated for the initial step and offers the same excellent operating characteristics associated with the impulse oil-blast principle of interruption. A new tank configuration results in an oil reduction of 40 per cent over the 230-kv conventional round tank breaker while doubling the short-circuit interrupting rating of that design. It further minimizes ground shock disturbance during the interruption of heavy-duty fault currents and allows overall tank heights to be reduced to such an extent that it is now possible to ship 230-kv breakers with all three poles factory-assembled and welded to a unit base. Complete electrical, interrupting, and mechanical design tests demonstrated that the breaker meets all industry standards with ample margins of safety. Tests at the Switchgear Development Laboratory included both fault duty interruptions and the switching of line charging currents. These tests have fully proved the adequacy of the design and indicate that higher interrupting ratings could be obtained, with modifications."
"A European power circuit breaker is given two interrupting ratings, one for the interruption of symmetrical currents only and one, usually about 25 per cent larger, for the interruption of asymmetrical currents only. In contrast, an American power circuit breaker is given a single rated interrupting current at rated voltage which applies to both symmetrical and asymmetrical currents, and which is numerically the same as the rated symmetrical current of a corresponding European breaker. The larger rated asymmetrical interrupting current of a European circuit breaker is not accompanied by a correspondingly larger rated making current and therefore can be used only when the current to be interrupted is increased without increasing the initial current. To use the full 25-per-cent extra, the relays and breaker must operate rapidly enough to separate the breaker contacts in about 2 cycles of a 60-cycle wave after the short circuit starts. If the relay time plus breaker opening time is 4 cycles or more, as is assumed for 8-cycle breakers in American-recommended application procedure, a typical circuit will not give an asymmetrical current which, at the time of contact parting, exceeds in value the rated symmetrical value, without exceeding the rated making current at 1/2 cycle. Consequently, in most cases this higher value of asymmetrical interrupting capacity, not accompanied by higher making capacity, can not be used."
"A number of years ago Lord Kelvin in England expressed the view that future power transmission will be with direct current; and Harris J. Ryan in the United States suggested keeping an open mind regarding the use of direct current for long-distance transmission and system interconnection. The well-known d-c transmission line from Moiutiers to Lyon, France, transmitting 20,000 kw at 125 kv over a distance of 138 miles, of which 23 were by underground cable, was designed by Rene Thury on the principle of constant current, with several d-c generators connected in series. A d-c line is now being designed from the mainland of Sweden to the Island of Gotland, for operation in 1954, with 20,000 kw to be transmitted initially at 100 kv by an undersea cable over a distance of 62 miles, by the use of electronic power converters operating as a constant-voltage system, with provision for future expansion to 40,000 kw at 200 kv. According to Swedish engineers, the tests gave very promising results, and economic calculations have shown the d-c system to cost considerably less than the a-c system. With the renewed activity in this field, it may be of interest to discuss the principles of d-c transmission using electronic power converters."
"Over-all system economy can be improved by means used specifically to increase the power limits of high-voltage, large-conductored transmission lines.1-24 Important methods for increasing the stability limits of high-voltage transmission systems are: 1. Intermediate switching stations, with and without series capacitor compensation. 2. Intermediate systems. 3. Automatic circuit reclosing. 4. Switched shunt capacitors and reactors. 5. Generator excitation systems. This paper reviews and compares four possible methods of applying series capacitors, together with intermediate switching stations for improving the transient stability limit of high-voltage systems. The function of intermediate switching stations to improve the stability limits of transmission lines is primarily that of removing transmission line faults by disconnecting a smaller line section with a correspondingly smaller shock than if intermediate switching stations were not used. Detailed studies of intermediate switching stations have been previously reported24 which indicate that they can be economical for lines as short as 50 miles. Series capacitors reduce the over-all line reactance, and hence allow a larger stable transfer of power. Series capacitors can also be applied to obtain better load division21,22 on parallel lines having different conductor resistances and/- or different lengths, although series capacitors applied for this purpose show only marginal economic benefits. In general, series capacitors appear to be economical for increasing the stability limit of lines about 200 miles or longer. There has been, however, some divergence of opinion as to the most economical location for the series capacitors in the transmission system."
"Undesired voltages often accompanied by phase reversal have been experienced1,2 on distribution systems after the opening of 1- or 2-phase conductors. The mere opening of phase conductors on a 3-phase system will not necessarily result in undesirable voltages and phase reversal, but certain combinations of open conductors and unbalanced circuit impedances3 or open conductors and balanced impedances containing inductive and capacitive reactance4,5 can result in undesirable voltage conditions. In the latter, previous studies have not included simultaneously the effect of system load and of the transformer non-linear magnetizing characteristic upon these abnormal voltages. The results in this paper include the combined effect and are therefore more applicable to a wider range of system conditions. Specifically, these phenomena were investigated with regard to the grounded-wye or 4-wire distribution system containing floating wye or delta-connected capacitor banks for kilovar supply, because it is the most common circuit arrangement occurring in practice. However, it is recognized that many other configurations may result in the same phenomena. It is the purpose of this paper to define the nature of the phenomena and under what conditions they may be obtained, including the effect of capacitor size, transformer magnetizing characteristics, magnitude of load, and load power factor. This study was made largely on systems in miniature on the transient network analyzer."
"Inductive and capacitive unbalances are present in transmission lines which are not transposed. The modern trend has been to omit transpositions1,2 and it is then desirable to compute the resultant unbalances. This paper deals with one phase of this problem as applied to twin conductor (bundle conductor) lines, namely the electrostatic unbalance to ground which is a result of unequal capacitances between the three phases and ground. In a solidly grounded system, this unbalance manifests itself as a fundamental frequency, zero-sequence current in the lead between the neutral and ground of the power transformer which is used for system grounding."
"AIEE Special Publication S-43, \"Bibliography on Power Capacitors 1925- 1950,\" was issued in January 1952 and consisted of a comprehensive bibliography of the literature dealing with power c apacitors over the period indicated in the title. The bibliography embraced a total of 918 items from some 180 periodicals published in the United States and abroad. The present report has been prepared to extend the bibliography through the year 1952, and consists of 119 articles which are classified under the same headings and subheadings used in the original report. Under each section, the titles are arranged in chronological order. At the end of the report is an index of authors and a list of periodicals. It is the intention of the committee to keep the bibliography up to date by issuing reports at regular intervals."
"In this paper, an analysis is made of the variation of ambienit temperatures of submarine and underground cable installations with respect to time and depth. A method of mathematical analysis of the initial temperature distribution is given for earth exposed to air and for earth under a relatively thick body of slowly moving water such as Baltimore Harbor. The average annual water temperature at the bottom of this harbor is within a few degrees of the average annual air temperature. The data and equations presented in this paper indicate that the annual variation in the earth below such a body of water, as well as below earth exposed to air, vary sinusoidally. The amplitude decreases and the time lag increases with increasing depth."
"The following discussion and clostures were received too late to he included with the papers: \"Short-Time Impulse Voltage Characteristics of Tank-Type Oil Circuit Breakers\" [Discussion and author's closure of paper 53- 347 by V.E. Phillips and R.H. Miller, published in Power Apparatus and Systems, October, 1953, pages 998-1000] and \"New Line of Low-Voltage Air Circuit Breakers\" [Authors' closure of paper 53-149 by B.S. Beall, III, and V.N. Stewart, published in Power Apparatus and Systems, Dec. 1953, pages 1207-1215]."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under he primary entry in the Author Index."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Acquaintance with the complete color television signal is necessary before it is possible to discuss color receivers. This signal consists of the normal monochrome television signal (i.e. luminance, deflection sync, and sound 8ignals) to which the coloring information has been added This added information consists of a modulated color subcarrier, called the chrominance signal, and a color synchronizing signal which supplies a phase reference for the chrominance signal. Black-and-white receivers reproduce only the luminance and sound. Color television receivers must, in addition, insert the coloring information present in the chrominance subcarrier into the black-and-white picture. The author then describes color receiver systems and their circuitry."
"My subject for discussion is the connection of UHF and color adaptors to VHF receivers. All of us are aware that a great deal of attention is being paid today by engineers and designers to the problems of UHF conversion of VHF receivers and there is strong evidence to indicate that all receivers made in the future probably will contain either tuners which stretch over both the VHF and UHF bands, or are convertible by one of a number of possible methods to UHF reception after the receiver has left the manufacturer's factory."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The selection and amplification of UHF television (TV) signals is described in detail. It is concluded that the UHF tuner art is just beginning its development. Five years ago, commercial VHF television tuners often had noise figures of 17 to 20 db, even on low-frequency channels. Today, a good VHF tuner noise figure is 6 to 7 db. In contrast, commercial UHF tuners which we have recently measured range from 12 db upward in noise .figure. Thus, present UHF tuning devices will provide stable all channel tuning with adequate performance for the reception of UHF television signals."
"Television receivers which are to receive U. S. Standard broadcasts and to utilize 50-cycle or other non-synchronous power sources require special design considerations to minimize interaction effects in the picture. These interaction effects usually take the form of picture siggle or flicker at a difference frequency rate. In this paper, design and measurement techniques are disclosed. Placement of the power transformer and precautions in regard to the heater wiring are discussed in particular detail with regard to their effect upon interaction. Production designs are disclosed and performance figures are given for two table model television receivers designed for use in non-synchronous power areas."
"To produce a simultaneous television image in color, three communication channels must be available. The first of these may be used to transmit the scene brightness, the second the degree of color saturation, and the third the hue or color. For compatibility the brightness is transmitted as amplitude modulation in the usual way. A subcarrier is introduced to carry the other two pieces of information as amplitude and phase modulations. The optimum loading of these two auxiliary communication channels is the major consideration of this paper."
"While most NTSC color television receivers built to date have used the three-gun tricolor tube, experimentation with other displays has continued. This paper discusses some aspects of a four-gun four-color tube of the aperture mask type: possibility of minimizing the effect of convergence and other raster deficiencies of the three-gun tube, video circuitry, implications with respect to system amplitude linearity or gamma correction."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper presents a discussion of the problems and techniques involved in the design and development of color television receiver demodulators. The basic concepts of a simultaneous subcarrier color system are described as relating to the receiver demodulator problem. The particular signal specifications for field testing as proposed by the National Television System Committee are included to the extent of their effects upon receiver demodulator design. The discussion is intended to provide at least a working knowledge of the demodulator techniques utilized to date in color television receivers, which form a background for future developments of improved techniques."
"Although the technical aspects of color television are more complex than the monochrome version, this article will show, by a simplified step-by-step approach, that the fundamental make-up of the NTSC (National Television System Committee) color television signal is easily understood, as well as efficient and ingenious. The electronic engineer to whom color television is a new area of thought should find this elementary treatment an ideal introduction to the more detailed articles which have appeared in print. (See Bibliography.)"
"A sixteen-position turret type of tuner covering both the very-high-frequency (VHF) and ultra-high-frequency (UHF) television channels has been designed and tested. The measured electrical performance data and field tests òf the tuner indicate that it gives excellent performance"
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"For an exact duplication of the present equipment it is estimated that it would cost about $9000. This unit contains ten information channels and five dc operational amplifiers. With this equipment it is possible to obtain three-component information - lift, drag and center of pressure; or ten channels of pressure coefficients. To obtain six-component balance information it is estimated that $3000 additional will be required. Several features of this equipment appear to be new or novel and might be of value in many general problem solutions. One feature is the application of analogue techniques to data handling and reduction; a second feature is the method of obtaining amplitude stability for the carrier; a third is servo balancing for zero shift; a fourth is the moderately low cost of duplication of the equipment; a fifth is the ease of maintenance and checking of the individual parts and the unit as a whole; a sixth is the versatility of the unit to be used for many types of similar problems; a seventh is the ability to follow dynamic phenomena and perform computations with sinusoid components up to 500 cps. Any of these features may border on being trivial by itself, but the overall system is thought to be a large step forward in moderate accuracy data handling; particularly for test installations where it is (or might be) advisable for the test conductor to have or see the results of the test during or immediately after completion of a run."
"An accurate and reliable method for the conversion of analog voltages to equivalent digital values is described in which the basic operating mechanism is a self-balancing potentiometer having one thousand discrete balance positions. Applications to mechanized digital data handling systems are discussed."
"In summary, there has been described an Outscriber which, using a modified Western Union 3-stylus Teledeltos recorder in conjunction with the required accessory electronic and mechanical equipment, is capable of printing, in a binary presentation, 80,000 bits per minute. The record is in the form of two 40-bit words per line, and 1000 lines per minute. Each line of data may, if desired, be reprinted up to 8 consecutive times in order to give immunity against statistical fluctuations in the paper characteristics and in the operation of the device. A record containing 1,024 words, where each of the 512 lines has been printed one time, is included on a piece of Teledeltos paper 8-1/4'' by 19''. After there is deducted from this area of paper the 1-5/8'' of width for the edge and center margins, the figure of merit for this device is found to be 320 bits per square inch per unit time."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The zero-potential contour produced on the wall of a homogeneous conducting circular cylinder by a current dipole is investigated for both centric and eccentric dipoles located midway between the end-caps of the cylinder. Properties and characteristics of the zero-potential contour are discussed. The perpendicular-plane construction, employed in conjunction with the null-contour on the human subject to determine the orientation of a centric heart dipole, is clarified conceptually and the errors involved in this construction are determined quantitatively. It is shown that the heart dipole angle is obtainable from the perpendicular-plane construction if the latter result is multiplied by a correction factor of approximately 1.6, for dipoles tilted at angles from 0° to 45° with respect to the cylinder axis. The application of this result to electrocardiography is restricted by the assumptions that the human torso may be represented by a homogeneous conducting circular cylinder, and that the heart may be represented by a dipole located on the cylinder axis midway between the end-caps of the cylinder."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"This report has presented a design procedure and its application to a particular type of subassembly which has been developed by the Electro-Mechanical Department of North American Aviation. The miniature subassemblies that have been described were designed to affect a compromise between extremes of miniaturization and convenience of application to airborne electronic systems which utilize large numbers of subminiature tubes. The advent of the scaled mock-ups, described in this report, has resulted in shifting the responsibility of circuit layouts from design drafting personnel to the circuit designer. This shift expedites packaging of prototype units and gives the engineer design control when circuit performance is critical to the geometry of the assembly. These procedures are not claimed to be new or startling, however, it is hoped that their presentation in this report will promote further use of etched conductor circuits and stimulate further exchange of ideas along these lines. North American Aviation has found that the adoption of these design procedures has affected a large overall saving in development manhours and has reduced design training time requirements without sacrificing quality or uniformity of the product design."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"This Cumulative Index to IRE Transactions on Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics (1951-1956) is divided into the following sections: Index to The Professional Group on Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics Index to (PGAE vols 1-10) 1951-1953; Index to Volumes ANE-1 to ANE-3 (1954-1956); Author Index; Subject Index; and Nontechnical Index."
"Summary form only given, as follows. A resume of the important performance characteristics of an airborne radar system will be given. In particular, typical monopulse antenna patterns, antenna impedance data, phase and gain tracking of the reference and error channels will be described. The advantages of monopulse type tracking over the conventional conical scan tracking systems will be discussed with respect to both the tracking accuracy and relative complexity of the two systems. A brief commentary will be made on the future possibilities of extending the performance capabilities of monopulse radar systems beyond that generally recognized at this time."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The mechanical configurations of both scanning and tracking antenna systems will be discussed and their relative merits and types of applications outlined. The characteristics of each will be analyzed on the basis of established figures of merit, i.e., volumetric efficiency, scanning efficiency, weight efficiency, etc."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"For the analysis of radars of the search type, the antenna parameters of overall power gain and beamwidth are usually adequate to describe the antenna portion of the radar. If the radar is used for highly accurate angle-of-arrival measurements, it is desirable to introduce another antenna parameter for a system analysis. This additional parameter should relate the antenna error voltage to the angle-of-arrival or error angle. However, this slope parameter should be a property of the antenna and independent of the impedance and power level. A method of evaluating this parameter for a variety of antenna aperture illuminations will be described."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This guest editorial notes that in the preparation of this glossary, there was no intention to dictate what language people should use. Instead the policy of other compilers of dictionaries was used. The intent was to record usage, considering both the extent of usage and just who uses certain terms in certain ways. The policy of recording usage appears to be the only way to aid in eliminating dialects without stifling progress."
"A relay device is described which varies resistance in a stepwise continuous manner in order to approximate arbitrary functions of time. The device can be used with electronic differential analyzers to solve linear differential equations with variable coefficients. Sample solutions of Bessel's equation are included as examples. Calibration and measurement techniques which permit computer accuracies, of several hundredths of a percent are discussed."
"One difficulty encountered in the operation of the Williams type electrostatic memory is the critical nature of the storage tube beam current. Ordinarily, frequent adjustment is required to maintain this parameter within the reliable operating region. By the use of a simple circuit the adjustment may be made automatically resulting in increased reliability and ease of operation."
"1. To determine how accurate the computing components representing a given variable have to be, assume that they constitute one more piece of measuring equipment which must handle the data before it is fed into an ideal computer. 2. In general, the components of an analog computer must have individual accuracies consistent with the measuring equipment available to the group it belongs to. 3. The static accuracy of an operational amplifier may be measured simply by observing the grid voltage in a closed-loop connection as the output is swung through its full range at some low frequency (Fig. 2). Phase shift may be measured simply (Fig. 3), but usually does not play an important part in establishing limits of performance for the computer. 4. Integrator random drift may be measured simply, but is only one cause contributing to integrator error. Account should be taken of the grid deviations measured in the static test above, or else drift measured about a number of non-zero output levels. 5. The effect of integrator drift is to limit the computing time. Required computing time and highest required frequency are determined directly for real-time simulation. In other computing, one may be traded for the other, so long as the product R remains constant. R is the number of cycles of the highest frequency contained in the longest time. Two computers may be compared by comparing their R's; comparing drift rates, computing times, or maximum frequencies alone is not valid."
"This paper relates some of the considerations that led the designers to develop the all-mechanical Model II Unityper, in order to achieve a smaller, less expensive input transcriber than the larger electronic first model. Operational characteristics are discussed, and the relationship of the unit to the rest of the computing system is given."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This aper describes a non-counting decimal-coded shaft digitizer. Phototubes are used to read the posi-of masks, permitting static as well as dynamic readout with minimum loading of the measured shaft. Reading is done with several units, each reading a digit of the decimal number representing the shaft position. A special decimal code enmploying 5 phototubes per decade is used to avoid intra-decade ambiguities. Inter-decade ambiguities are prevented by using two masks on all but the first decade. An experimental digitizer, using standard components, is described."
"A shaft position to binary number converter suitable for use as an input device for a digital computer is described. The basic component of the converter is a binary mechanical revolution counter having an output in the form of voltages or pulses on parallel lines representing, in the binary number system, the quantity stored in the counter. Ambiguities are eliminated by a novel method of internal switching. The effects of backlash are discussed and shown to be negligible."
"This paper presents the history of the tube program evolved for the UNIVAC system. It shows that reliable performance of vacuum tubes in large scale computers can be achieved by an integrated program, starting with design and initial tube selection, and covering pre-installation process-and marginal checking. Performance data on four UNIVACS are used to illustrate the success of the program, with data on UNIVAC # 1 covering 16,000 hours of operation."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"An advance over the original combination of electric-operated cam controller with pneumatic circuit contactors, this new system utilizes two motor-operated controllers; one to establish main circuits, and the other to commutate resistance. Refinements, introduced as the result of operating experience with equipment of the previous type, give smoother operation and improved dynamic braking characteristics. Compactness and ease of maintenance have been achieved to a marked degree."
"An evaluation of the closed-loop poles of a feedback control system is almost necessary if one desires an accurate knowledge of its time response. If these poles are known, the response of the system to any kind of input can be determined fairly simply. However, evaluation of the closed-loop poles has long been a stumbling block in feedback control design, because it often requires finding the roots of a polynomial of high order. In 1947 Evans1 presented the root-locus method which facilitates this evaluation, but yet is still quite cumbersome. In 1951 Kusters and Moore2 simplified Evans' approach by utilizing generalized frequency-response plots. This paper extends this method of Kusters and Moore, and supplements it with a method for estimating by inspection approximate values of the closed-loop poles from the open-loop transfer function, and a numerical method for evaluating the closed-loop poles exactly."
"Recently, in the technical magazines, articles have appeared advocating the use of a 277/480-volt 3-phase 4-wire grounded neutral distribution system for manufacturing plants. In these articles, it is pointed out that power and lighting service can be supplied from the same feeders by connecting motors, and other large loads requiring 3-phase electric supply, to the 3-phase conductors, and lamps to the phase and neutral conductors."
"The performance of a feedback control system is often evaluated on the basis of the transient response, for which the step function is used as the input. The abrupt change of input or disturbance may represent important actual operating conditions that the system may be subjected to. However, synthesis or design on this basis is mathematically difficult to carry out when the system has a characteristic equation of high order. As a result, synthesis on the sinusoidal or frequency basis has been developed and widely used. It is obviously most desirable to know the correlation between the frequency and transient responses so that a criterion for the frequency response method may be properly established."
"Higher illumination levels and new lighting sources make it necessary to re-examine possible methods of power distribution and control for lighting loads. As a result of the higher lighting load densities and versatile lighting sources, the designer must now exercise a considerable amount of engineering judgment in planning the distribution system. New design techniques make it possible to provide maximum convenience and reliability at minimum cost and with a minimum use of critical materials. The purpose of this paper is to discuss some of the requirements of the different lighting sources and analyze the modern trends in power distribution and control for lighting loads."
"One of the most important advances in rail transportation after the turn of the century was the introduction of electric traction motors for passenger train service. This boom started a crisscross of short interurban electric lines throughout the country with the idea in mind of reaching out and covering more territory. At the time of this boom there were two trends of thought in the traction field - alternating current and direct current."
"The increasing prominence of the diesel-electric locomotive on American railroads has given new impetus to the use of dynamic braking. Originally intended as a means of controlling both passenger and freight train speed on mountain grades, it has been refined to the point where it is increasingly used for controlling freight train speed in relatively level territory. A recent refinement of braking control takes advantage of additional traction motor capacity available at lower speeds. Extensive service tests have demonstrated the operational and economic value of this form of braking."
"Transient measurement techniques permit rapid determination and comparison of the operational characteristics of feedback control systems. Instrumentation is described which introduces a repetitive step function to a system and visually displays its dynamic response. Provision is made for precisely measuring response magnitude as a function of time and obtaining permanent records for future reference. Refinements necessary for accurate determination of the response of carrier systems is discussed. Examples of system response patterns are given."
"Widespread use of diesel-electric locomotives on American Railroads has created an unprecedented demand for personnel trained in the operation, inspection, and maintenance of many types of electric equipment. The locomotive builders and the railroads, working together, have developed successful programs for training such personnel. Contributing vendors and the trade press have ably seconded these efforts. The application of basic principles of education has served to develop teaching techniques which are producing personnel capable of coping with the problems of this new era in railroading."
"The presence of coulomb friction in servomechanisms often results in undesirable effects, such as an operating dead-zone, low-frequency wander, and poor dynamic performance for low level signals. Methods of compensation for these adverse effects are discussed and a specific example is presented. Also, a general procedure, using frequency-response techniques, is outlined for the synthesis of compensation in systems affected by coulomb friction. The methods employed are based on the recognition that coulomb friction in a control device has a describing function which reduces gain and introduces phase lag. The describing function is determined by both the amplitude and the frequency of the input signal to the device."
"It has become widely realised that fault values on low-voltage systems often greatly exceed the interrupting rating (10,000 amperes) of the cartridge fuses at present recognised by the National Electrical Code in the United States and the Canadian Electrical Code in Canada."
"The application of 2-way telephone communication to moving railroad trains has created a need for a dependable power supply for railway cabooses. A study of the system requirements indicated an axle-driven alternator-rectifier equipment to be better suited to this application than the conventional d-c generator. A 3-5-kw alternator system has been developed, paying particular attention to the requirements of this service and to the fact that the equipment must operate over long periods without attention."
"The first diesel locomotive, I understand, employed direct side rod drive, somewhat similar to steam power. As might be expected, this transmission of diesel power was not found satisfactory."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the title page of this issue of the periodical."
"This paper describes some experimentally observed servomechanism saturation phenomena and introduces principles and techniques useful in the explanation of these phenomena and in the analysis of saturating servomechanisms. Typical tachometer servomechanism frequency responses with varying input magnitude, including the “jump” resonance phenomenon, are described. The simple principle “that the effect of saturation is to lower the average gain value of the path in which saturation takes place” is applied to the linear transfer function plot to explain the frequency responses. An analytical graphical technique for obtaining the steady-state frequency response of a saturating servomechanism is presented and is used to explain the phenomenon of jump resonance. Techniques for obtaining the transient response of simple saturating servomechanisms are also presented."
"The trend in the automobile industry toward larger and more complex stamped parts for fabricating automobile bodies has necessitated radical changes in the design of stamping presses and their associated drives. The drive problems presented by these more complex machines and operations have led to the development of new drive systems. This paper deals with the application of d-c adjustable-speed drives to deep-drawing presses. Basic drive considerations and description of a typical drive are discussed."
"Measurements of the electrical characteristics of arcs, such as the variation of voltage with current and with arc length, have been carried out by Ayrton,1 Nottingham,2 and Suits,3 and others for currents below 20 amperes and by Finkelnburg4 for carbon arcs for currents above 20 amperes. Most of the work has been done at atmospheric pressure. The great increase in the use of inert gases for arc welding has resulted in the publication of much valuable data on the behavior of arcs in these atmospheres under typical welding conditions. It appears, however, that there is a need for more quantitative information on the characteristics of the inert gas arc under controlled laboratory test conditions. In particular, this information is needed for arc currents in excess of 20 amperes and for gas pressures in the neighborhood of atmospheric such as pertain when the inert gas arc is used for welding."
"Frequency response plots have long been used to predict transient as well as steady-state responses of closed loop linear systems, avoiding the exact and laborious solution of differential equations. This paper considers the relations between specific properties of frequency response plots and the corresponding properties of the early portions of the time responses. It is shown that the common output/input transfer function plots are in reality plots of the Laplace transform of the impulse (transient) response. The Laplace transform of a time function is a real integral in which an exponential kernal is multiplied by the time function, and the product summed from time zero to infinity. This process amounts to a mechanism by which the kernal scans the time function as the frequency is varied. This paper gives a method for interpreting Laplace transform plots and extending their use, and presents a method for estimating the size, frequency, damping, and phase of oscillations in the corresponding time response. “Standard” plots are included to aid in estimating particular properties. The method is relatively quick in application, and makes use of functions and techniques already familiar in Laplace transform analysis. In addition, it is not limited to the responses of systems having rational transforms, or to responses to impulses or step inputs, but can be used to estimate the response to almost any desired input, and is applicable to systems having time-varying elements."
"Little information has been presented in the past regarding the behavior of d-c machines during flashover particularly as regards the torque developed during this abnormal operation condition. This paper presents the results of a series of torque measurements made during flashover tests on a d-c generator. The time variation of torque during flashover and the significance of speed, excitation, and fault resistance are discussed."
"THE residential heat pump offers a tremendous potential load to the electrical utility industry. A load which, with any reasonable degree of public acceptance, easily can equal and perhaps exceed several times the present-day total domestic electrical consumption. The total estimated residential electrical consumption in the United States was 29.7 billion kilowatt-hours for 1944 and 67 billion kilowatt-hours for 1950. The last known residential heating installation survey, made in 1940, gave the total useful heating fuel consumption as 2,382 × 1012 Btu which represents 697 billion kilowatt-hours when converted to equivalent electrical units and to approximately 155 billion kilowatt-hours if the heating was supplied by heat pumps having a coefficient of performance of 4.5.1 Using these figures, a 20-per-cent heat pump saturation of residential heating installations would bring about a consumption equal approximately to the total residential electrical consumption in the United States, providing it can be assumed that the increase in the heating installations and in the residential electrical consumption since 1940 were in about the same proportion. In any case, this load may be of such magnitude that its effect on the present and future electrical utility systems needs to be evaluated fully. All possible information must be obtained on the load factor, on the probable demand coincident with the system's peak, on the diversity of a number of installations in any given area, and on the extent and duration of the peaks of the nondiversified demand in order to determine power cost as well as to provide suitable data for substation and feeder design and to permit proper sizing of distribution transformers."
"As a result of operating experience on experimental heat pumps in Philadelphia, this paper suggests the necessity for improving the annual load factor of heat pump systems through the employment of heat storage. It demonstrates the relationship between minimum capacity of heat storage with reduced capacity of heating plants, and concludes that it should be economically practical to supply electricity to heat storage types of heat pump systems in competition with other fuels."
"In order to investigate the practicability of using heat pumps for year-round residential heating and cooling in the Philadelphia area, two experimental installations were operated for 2 years, using earth as a heat source. This paper describes the installations, presents essential performance data, and concludes that the satisfactory performance experienced may be bettered by specific technical improvements."
"THE need for bundle ratings arises from the fact that cables installed in aircraft are grouped together for a portion of the cable run from the distribution bus to the individual load devices. Stated in its simplest form, the bundle-rating problem is to determine a method for selecting the proper combination of cable sizes for any given group of currents; or stated, conversely, given a group of cables, to find the combination of currents which may be carried safely by the group."
"THE ELECTRIC welding of metal is a relatively new and rapidly growing process in the metal fabrication industries. Even newer and currently enjoying a more rapid expansion is the electric welding of glass. While there is some similarity between the techniques employed, the widely differing physical properties of the two materials make the electrical requirements quite distinct."
"TWO RECENT STUDIES of aircraft generator regulator systems have come from this laboratory. One1 analyzed the carbon-pile regulator and determined its transfer function; the other2 derived a generator-transfer function and determined stability criteria for a regulator-generator combination. These studies were concerned primarily with design parameters of the regulator and generator but did not answer the question of how to improve matters once the regulator and generator design were fixed. In particular, an understanding of the function and limitations of the standard feedback resistor was desired. Therefore, a mathematical and experimental investigation was undertaken to obtain the transfer functions of systems with feedback. The mathematical determination of these functions was straightforward. They were, however, too cumbersome and complicated in their exact form to be of great help in noting the effect of changes of parameters, primarily because there are no buffer amplifiers allowable between components. In some cases, but not all, reasonable approximations have been derived. There are, however, mathematical generalizations in the frequency plane one can fall back upon for the purpose of understanding or designing stabilizing networks. These generalizations, in addition to transfer-function measurements, form the basis of work which has been done here."
"Destructive contact “frying” is particularly troublesome in sensitive contact mechanisms such as thermostats, small switches, and polarized relays. This paper describes an investigation which proved that sensitive contact frying is actually an electromechanical oscillation of the contacts and is caused principally by electrostatic attraction between the contacts. On the basis of this analysis, simple changes in contact shapes and detent arrangements are proposed as a means of efficiently eliminating the phenomenon and thus improving sensitive contact performance."
"LINEAR servomechanisms have found widespread application primarily because of their inherent simplicity. This simplicity is reflected both in the physical structure of an approximately linear system and in its analysis. It is well known that the performance of a nonlinear servomechanism may be considerably better than that of a comparable linear one. Second-order systems may be investigated semianalytically by the phase plane approach. Unfortunately however, analytical methods for the design of more general nonlinear servo systems are virtually nonexistent. An analytical method based on a rather restrictive approximation was proposed by Kochenburger1 for analyzing contactor servos. Extension of Kochenburger's method to more general problems is discussed by Johnson.2"
"Cost and reliability are present critical factors in aircraft development. It is suggested, therefore, that a study of simpler, more rugged servo controls is in order. In this regard, the improvement of older-type, nonlinear electromagnetic controls which do not depend upon vacuum-tube equipment should be considered. Off-on-modulated servo clutch controls of this type have substantial advantages in weight, simplicity, and acceleration characteristics. They may be made to approximate closely the performance of a proportional type of control by the use of velocity feedback. Power gains of up to 50 times in the magnetic servo clutch allow direct operation from the signal sensing unit."
"This paper presents impedance data which the authors have compiled for use in designing and testing aircraft electric systems employing 3-phase 400-cycle auxiliary power. Tabulated herein are impedance data for a number of typical configurations employing multiple-wire feeders in 0.5-inch flat spacing and laced 3-phase groups. Sufficient background material and procedure are given to enable the reader to calculate additional data for configurations not actually tabulated."
"Arc immobility and arc reversal phenomena limit the use, affect the design, and dictate the test procedure required for aircraft circuit interrupting equipment using magnetic arc suppression. A summary of the literature on this subject is offered. An explanation of the cause of transient arc immobility and small gap arc immobility is proposed. An addition to the consensus of theory as to the cause of arc immobility and arc reversal is suggested usefully relating arc length as a critically important factor to the understanding of these phenomena."
"Continuously increasing airplane performance has outstripped the ability of electric and electronic equipment to withstand environmental temperature conditions without special treatment. The problem is one of controlling the actual temperature of the equipment to a value that will provide satisfactory life. The equipment temperature is affected by many factors, including such things as ambient air density and orientation of the unit with respect to surrounding surfaces. The common specification of ambient air temperature is no longer adequate, and it is necessary to work with actual component temperatures."
"ALTITUDE chambers have proved beneficial in the development of equipment to be installed in aircraft. By determining the conditions under which the equipment is to be operated and then simulating those conditions in altitude chambers, it has been possible to discover deficiencies and make corrections prior to installation of the equipment in aircraft. This procedure has made it possible to complete the development programs on the auxiliary equipment so that flight-test emphasis has been on the overall performance of the aircraft. Aircraft performance has been aided materially by the use of altitude chambers."
"THE electric system of the modern airplane must provide continuity of electric power to all load distribution circuits regardless of the occurrence of faults. The aircraft industry has widely accepted the necessity of generator feeder-fault protection to accomplish this objective. There is, however, no general agreement to be found when determining the means of obtaining this protection."
"MUCH has been written concerning the use of frequency response techniques in the design and analysis of linear control systems with continuous error detection and control. Application of these techniques to the problems of discontinuous control system design, however, has not been treated extensively. The purpose of this paper is to present an approach to the analysis and synthesis of a particular kind of discontinuous control system, the pulsed servo, based on modified frequency response methods."
"This paper begins with an elementary discussion of the mechanics of airplane flight and control. Following this discussion electrical methods for improving the transient response of an airplane in the yawing and pitching modes are outlined and illustrated by two examples. The paper is concluded by a brief discussion of a method by which an airplane cable control system can be replaced by an electric servomechanism. Results of analyses using differential equations and Nyquist plots are discussed and compared with results obtained on an analogue computer."
"IN THE design of a positional servomechanism, the desired result is a system whose output member will follow exactly the instantaneous position of the input member. This, of course, imposes requirements on the system when in the dynamic or transient state which cannot be realized."
"THE PIONEERING of 3-phase 400-cycle constant frequency electric systems for modern aircraft has presented many difficult problems but has given a basic solution to the problem of meeting unprecedented electric load requirements. Load requirements have increased because of the increasing need for complex electric control systems and electronic devices in the maintenance of air supremacy. As a consequence of this greater dependence on electric power, greater reliability and simplicity of operation of the power systems are now demanded."
"IN VIEW of the important, numerous, and rapidly increasing uses of servomechanisms, analytic procedures that facilitate rapid design are of obvious technical value. The prime purpose of this paper is to set out the details of such a procedure. It has two major uses: First, in analysis it affords quick ascertainment of the roots of a specified cubic characteristic equation, thus enabling rapid determination of the stability characteristics of the corresponding third-order servo system; conversely, in synthesis it enables selection of the coefficients of a cubic characteristic equation to the end that a third-order servo system can be formulated with a desired degree and kind of stability."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"A high-voltage air-break contactor must be able to interrupt the circuit to motor loads or static loads covering a wide current range. Considerable attention has been given to the ability of contactors to interrupt fault currents, but little has been published on the problem of obtaining satisfactory performance at low currents. The difficulty at low currents is one of getting acceptably short arcing time."
"AS A consequence of recent publication of a general analysis of the drag-cup a-c tachometer,1 numerous inquiries have been received relative to the desirability of operating such a device from a current source. Hence, a brief examination of the possibilities of such operation seems worth while. In these communications the ideas expressed about constant-current operation have been to the effect that with fixed exciting flux extreme linearity of output voltage with respect to speed should be achieved, and that troubles caused by change of winding resistance with change of temperature should be eliminated. Mathematical examination shows that extreme linearity indeed is theoretically possible. However, design difficulties in the tachometer itself, temperature effects other than change in winding resistance, and the difficulties of designing and constructing an adequate current source make doubtful the practical realization of the theoretical advantages of operation from a current source to a sufficient extent to show superiority over operation from a voltage source."
"This paper explains briefly the progress of dieselization on the two major railways in Canada. It outlines specific electrical problems encountered and suggests the developments desired to meet their particular type of operation. Information given is in terms of technical reciprocity with the numerous railways in the United States."
"Many details of design of electric apparatus and its installation in the locomotive have a profound effect on the amount and quality of maintenance attention it requires and receives in service. Simplicity and ruggedness are basic. The influence of design upon diesel-locomotive electrical maintenance cannot be overemphasized. This applies not only to the design of the electrical apparatus but also to the design of the conduit and wiring, electrical cabinets, cab structure, and even the diesel engine itself. Taken separately, the following features peculiar to the diesel-electric locomotive must be kept in mind."
"Various requirements, procedure, and equipment for maintenance of electric equipment on diesel-electric locomotives are outlined."
"Complete electric heating installations are becoming quite general throughout certain areas. A popular type is the resistance cable embedded in plaster to form a radiant panel heater. For long cable life and maximum safety, the cable temperature must not exceed a definite limit. Various investigators have derived equations describing the temperature throughout the panel. However such equations do not relate temperature to heat input or else they are based on conditions not met in electric cable heating. K. Kalous1 developed equations for embedded pipe using hot water based upon the simplified assumption that heat flows laterally through the panel. This assumption is valid for panel thicknesses near pipe diameter and for pipe spacing, which is large when compared to panel thickness. Neither condition is met in electric cable heating. T. Napier Adlam2 publishes curves for pipe buried in plaster. The pipe sizes and spacings however, are quite large as compared to electric cable sizes and cable spacing."
"A servomechanism must hold its error or the difference between input and output, to as small a value as possible. If a large error appears as a result of a rapid change in the value of an input position signal, then high acceleration and high output speed are desirable, and these in turn are favored by a low damping ratio. When the error is near zero, the speed should be reduced rapidly so that overshoot does not occur, and this requires a high damping ratio. Thus the use of nonlinear damping which has some inverse relationship to the error has been proposed by several investigators.1-5"
"The following paper lists and describes the various protective functions of the ground relay as used on diesel-electric locomotives. The connections are described, and comments are made on the control features initiated by the operation of the relay."
"Electrohydraulic systems have certain advantages over pure electromechanical systems, which make them particularly suitable as an adjunct to electronic control for high-power level actuation. The main factor which has limited the application of hydraulic actuators until recently has been the awkardness of the control systems required. However, developments in the technique of controlling hydraulic flow electrically now permit the flexibility of electronic control to be applied to the linear operation of hydraulic valves at high speeds."
"Limiting effects exist in feedback control systems because of the restricted range of operation of components or because of purposeful limiting introduced for the protection of equipment. Such limiting effects increase the difficulties associated with the analysis and synthesis of systems because of the nonlinear mathematical relations which result. As such effects can markedly modify system performance, there is a practical need for a simplified method for taking them into account. The effect of limiting on system performance is studied here in terms of the frequency response of the system. It is found that limiting of the most elementary form “ simple limiting ” improves system stability, except in those systems which are conditionally stable or have a conditional degree of stability. In such instances, precautions are suggested to prevent the limiting action from adversely affecting system performance. It is found that the velocity limiting of a servomotor introduces the effect of phase lead and hence can be used to improve system stability. On the other hand, the limiting of servomotor acceleration directly or indirectly (as by means of current or pressure limiting) is found to introduce a phase-lag effect which can be detrimental to system performance. Electronic analogue computer techniques were employed to obtain much of the data presented here."
"D-C motors are used almost universally on rubber calenders to obtain a wide speed range, good speed regulation, maximum braking under emergency conditions, suitable matching of speeds of the auxiliaries with the calender, and on the modern drives, electrical tension regulation of the fabric. The majority of the calenders in operation are driven by adjustable speed d-c motors with conventional armature resistor starting and with rheostat control of the motor field for speed regulation. The more modern installations are equipped with adjustable voltage systems to obtain greater flexibility of operation, better synchronization with auxiliary machines, more suitable power for the constant torque requirements of calender loads, and improved electrical braking under emergency conditions."
"Users OF resistance welding equipment are finding “presswelding” to be ideally suited to many of their high-production applications. In its general concept, presswelding may be likened to present-day stamping-press practice; however, instead of forming or trimming, the weld press produces from 16 to 160 spot welds practically simultaneously on a given assembly. The welding press also differs from the usual stamping press in that the ram or movable platen is generally located in the lower part of the machine. This arrangement facilitates the location of the welding units and usually favors loading of the parts to be welded. Figure 1 shows three typical press types. The 4-post machine is used for large assemblies while the 2-post or open press is used for smaller operations."
"For efficient parallel operation of alternators it is necessary that both real and reactive load be distributed equally among the alternators. A 400-cycle a-c aircraft electric system presently in use employs both reactive and real power equalizers which are interconnections of the respective voltage and speed regulating systems of the paralleled alternators, giving an automatic correction for load unbalance while maintaining best system voltage and frequency regulation."
"In this paper a comparison will be made of a-c and d-c systems and motor characteristics, the merits of power-factor correction will be discussed, the possibilities and effects of a good choice of conductors will be examined and the solutions to simple a-c distribution problems will be offered."
"This paper develops a useful graphical representation similar to the common Nyquist diagrams for the measured or calculated open-loop frequency response data of nonlinear systems.1,2,3,4 This representation indicates the frequency response characteristics and other phenomena such as limit cycles5 and response hysteresis, or jump phenomenon,6 of closed-loop systems. Likewise, this open-loop representation is convenient for the synthesis of linear filters, which can be inserted in the error amplifier to improve the closed-loop response of such nonlinear systems. In fact, the closed-loop frequency response of the nonlinear system with a linear filter in the error or forward section of the loop can be determined if both the transfer function of the linear filter and the open-loop frequency response of the nonlinear servo without the filter are known. Many who have measured the response of servo systems assumed to be linear have realized that the assumption of linearity is not always satisfactory. For very small input signals, backlash and coulomb friction cause nonlinear distortion, as does saturation when the input signal is large.7 It is hoped that the method used in this paper will help the servo engineer improve the response of nonlinear systems."
"A method of controlling d-c power arcs is presented, with the emphasis on eliminating retrogressive motion of the arc. Stills from motion pictures of power arc interruptions in a normal atmosphere present the fundamental nature of arc retrogression. The various characteristics of an arc which cause such motion are detailed, and countered by simple design principles. Control of the arc reduces erosion of the metal parts, gives better protection to the circuit, and reduces total arcing time."
"When an aircraft current-limiter element is subject to sufficient overcurrent, it heats and finally melts, thus interrupting the circuit. The ohmic resistances of limiters at the instant before melting have been measured in the laboratory and have been found to be about 5.2 times the cold resistance, for copper-element limiters, and about 4.2 times the cold resistance for silver-element limiters. This increase in resistance results in an equalizing effect in parallel-connected limiters. A method is developed in this paper for predicting the extent of such current-equalization; in addition, it was discovered that the present method of predicting whether a limiter is damaged by a given current transient appears conservative."
"A discussion of transformer design and characteristics would have been a rather controversial subject 15 years ago, as in those days the name-plate kilovolt-ampere rating of the transformer meant little other than that it was printed in English. Oftentimes in the early years, if the power companies limited the maximum connected kilovolt-amperes for a particular installation, a machine was supplied with this name-plate kilovolt-ampere rating, regardless of the actual load drawn by the machine. It was rather common practice to use excessive amounts of copper in the secondaries, and a very small amount of primary copper. There was no logical reason for this except perhaps that the secondaries could be seen, while the primaries were covered. In general, confusion existed, no standard ratings were used, and it was extremely difficult for power companies or users to determine actual ratings and demand figures. Of course, this condition could not continue, and several years ago the AIEE and the Resistance Welder Manufacturers' Association (RWMA) drew up specifications for the standardization of welding-transformer ratings."
"Most of the literature dealing with the analysis and synthesis of servomechanisms confines itself to treating only linear systems in which all relationships can be expressed mathematically in the form of ordinary differential equations. However, in actual practice many systems are encountered containing elements which exhibit marked nonlinearities. The principal reason for ignoring such nonlinearities in much of the analysis and design of feedback-control systems is mathematical expediency. There is no simple mathematical method available to cope with nonlinear systems. There are certain types of nonlinear differential equations which are solvable, and techniques such as step-by-step solutions exist for more general nonlinear differential equations. Even to use these, however, involves so much tedious labor that the effort is rarely justifiable.1"
"The transport aircraft is inherently provided nearly complete thunderstorm-discharge protection by the metal fuselage, which forms a safe path for discharge currents that the aircraft may intercept. External elements such as movable surfaces and antennas can be protected. Airline experiences have shown that antennas frequently intercept discharges; a current surge conducted along the antenna lead-in frequently damages radio equipment and, in some cases, has resulted in fires. An effective antenna-protection unit was consequently developed, which besides protecting the ratio equipment, also records the bypassed current and charge magnitudes. Analysis of the sphere-gap pitting indicates the total-charge transfer, and small magnetic links indicate the peak currents by their magnetization. Because of the research importance of the data, these experimental units have been made available to airlines interested in cooperating with the Lightning and Transients Research Institute's program of protection researches. The discharge-current records and supplementary information from questionnaires are providing data for improved protection, and also help resolve statistically such questions as discharge-probability variations to be expected with various operating factors of geographical location, altitude, temperature, and size and speed of the aircraft."
"A considerable number of failures of d-c aircraft generators are caused either directly or indirectly by unsuccessful commutation. Difficulties encountered are related either to electromagnetic design features of the machine or to mechanical or chemical-physical phenomena in connection with the commutator, brush holders, and brush material. In the following, some of these features bearing upon the quality of commutation will be analyzed."
"The first portion of this paper is devoted to the logical selection of a category of nonlinear systems - systems having: 1. controllers with any number of time lags or leads, and usually operating in their saturated region (velocity saturation, force saturation, etc.), and 2. loads consisting of combinations of nonlinear masses, nonlinear dampers, and nonlinear springs. (Nonlinearities which involve explicit functions of time, such as mass and inertia of a controlled rocket motor missile, introduce special considerations not included here.) In the second part of the paper, characteristics of an intentionally nonlinear element added to the feedback are considered. In the final part, the nonlinear element is shaped to provide optimum response in the saturated region of operation."
"Methods for synthesizing servomechanisms are reviewed, and it is pointed out that stability criteria, frequency, and root-locus methods reduce to conditions on the transfer-function constants. These may be made mathematically specific following Whiteley's suggestion of \"standard forms.\" Eight mathematical criteria for optimum transient responses are critically examined, and the clear superiority of the minimum integral of time-multiplied absolute-value of error is demonstrated. The application of this criterion results in the selection of standard forms, which are presented in tables."
"A relatively short method yielding the time response to an impulse-input from the Nyquist or Bode presentation of the real frepuency open-loop response is outlined. This method has been found to give good agreement for linear feedback systems up to and including those having fifth-order closed-loop transfer functions."
"Many feedback controls and other physical systems are designed on the basis of linear theory, that is, linear differential equations with constant coefficients. A. Leonhard1‾3 and A. Vazsonyi4 have given graphical methods for determining whether all roots of the characteristic equation are located within certain sectors of the complex plane. Vazsonyi's method determines whether all dimensionless damping rates ζ of any linear system are greater than any prescribed value. Each pair of complex conjugate roots of the characteristic equation of a linear system has its own value of ζ. Any such pair can be expressed as"
"In an expansion era in the natural-gas pumping field, rivaling the building of the railroads, considerable interest has developed in the application of gas turbines, driving centrifugal compressors, for the pumping of natural gas. Since overall system reliability and continuity of service are the watchwords in natural gas pumping, the gas turbine fulfills all requirements. Its features - relatively simple construction, automatic operation, self-sustentation, self-protection, low installation and maintenance costs - indicate that the gas turbine is an excellent prime mover for pumping natural gas through long distance pipelines."
"A number of unfortunate experiences in the past, resulting in the loss of lives, have made many persons conscious of the hazards which can exist on the high-voltage systems serving strip-mining operations. Several years ago a system design employing the neutral grounding resistor was adopted. This has greatly minimized the number of shock accidents caused by equipment and cable failures."
"The drive for the log carriage is probably the most important of all sawmill drives. The mill's output is directly related to the speed and agility with which the carriage will respond to the sawyer's needs. The carriage represents a load of high inertia, and to propell it at required degrees of acceleration, deceleration, and speed demands large amounts of power. In making electric log-carriage applications it is economic practice to load the drive units to the maximum currents for which they are capable in rapidly recurring duty-cycle operation. This paper deals with the significance of this loading as related to: 1. The cost of the drive as aifected by the production requirements of specific applications. 2. The introduction of modem magneticamplifier controls to permit loading the drive components to their maximum load capabilities. 3. The introduction of a “basic duty cycle” for carriage operation. Based on this cycle, simple equations are developed to afford better understanding and appreciation of the important factors involved Dollar cost $\\sim(\\rm HP)_{rms} = {{P_{m^{3}}d^{2}W} \\over {86,600,000}}$ For example, this basic equation states that the cost of a drive is approximately proportional to the cube of the maximum production requirement (Pm), measured in continuous round trips per minute, that the carriage must make. Other important equations are developed, and the solution of a specific problem according to the theory is presented in graph form."
"In almost every electric circuit there axe one or more places where current passes from one continuous metal body to another across the interface separating the two. The presence of the interface introduces an additional resistance into the circuit, and this additional resistance has for many years been called contact resistance. For over a century the contact resistance was thought to arise entirely from the potential drop through which charge must pass in going across the interface from one body to the other, and this was considered to be the only resistance of a contact. Today, it is known that the deviation from a uniform current field caused by the constriction of the current to a few small conducting areas at the interface also contributes to the contact resistance. A recent paper1 by one of the authors describes some of the more important effects of this latter phenomenon."
"This paper presents some of the errors that are present in a nonlinear second-order feedback-control system. In order to investigate some of the errors that exist in a piece-wise (See Appendix for definitions) linear control system, the phase-plane method of analysis is used. Along with a description of some of the errors that exist, equations are presented for determining these errors, and curves covering the normal operating range are included."
"A recently proposed relay servo-mechanism employs maximum torque at all times, with the sense of the torque determined by a comparison of the error and the square of the error rate. With correct switching and no friction, this system gives the minimum possible response time for a step input with the specified inertia and maximum torque. A theoretical study of the effects of Coulomb or viscous friction is described in this paper. The degradation of the step-function response as a result of friction is measured by the change in response time, integrated absolute error, and integrated squared error. It is found that moderate amounts of friction can be tolerated with only a small loss in performance, if a slight change is made in the switching device."
"Many changes in coal mining methods have been taking place during the past two decades as a result of mechanization. Electrical motor drives are now used for a great variety of functions. In order to design proper underground power transmission and distribution circuits, to select the correct size and location of transforming or converting units, and to estimate power supply needs and costs, it is desirable to determine typical demand and energy-consumption requirements for both individual operations and area needs."
"Knowledge concerning the electrical characteristics of the earth's surface is important in safe operation of electric equipment. Such knowledge is helpful in application of lightning protection to power systems, protection against shock hazards, and protection against premature blasting accidents where electric shot firing is used."
"The self-propelled rail car is returning to a place of popularity as the railroads seek to reduce costs and attract additional passenger business. Current rail-car application in the United States covers relatively long main-line runs with diesel-hydraulic cars, and branch line service with light diesel-electric cars. Between these two extremes there lies a need for a main-line type of car capable of performing suburban service. Certain characteristics of the electric drive are well suited to this application."
"The increased cleaning required to provide coal which will meet present-day market requirements has greatly expanded the use of processing equipment in coal preparation plants. This places increased emphasis on the selection of the electric equipment to obtain the utmost in safety, reliability, and efficiency. The various phases of the electric system should be considered early in the planning stages so that the location of the mechanical and electric equipment may be properly co-ordinated."
"Mechanization has opened up new possibilities to the coal mining industry. One of these is the mining of coal seams formerly considered too narrow for practical working. Such operations impose severe restrictions on much of the equipment employed. To meet these requirements, a low-height haulage locomotive was designed with the objective of keeping vertical dimensions to a minimum. The fact that a number of these units are now operating successfully on various properties attests the basic soundness of the design."
"The development of the diesel-electric locomotive posed the problem of utilizing full engine horsepower over a wide range of locomotive operating conditions. One means devised to solve this problem was the use of a split-pole exciter, so designed as to give a generator load characteristic closely matching the constant horsepower output of the diesel engine over most of its range. Since the regulation results from the inherent exciter characteristics, this system employs a minimum of control equipment."
"The shuttle car was developed to meet the demand for rapid transportation of coal from the working face to the secondary haulage system in the mine. Rubber-tired cars generally have been used, but certain limitations pointed to the desirability of a track-laying vehicle. Such a car was designed, with electric drive and an electrohydraulic control system. Nearly 3 years of operating experience indicate that the design is fundamentally sound and that this type of vehicle has a definite place in mining operations."
"In the past 5 years, a great deal of interest has been centered on the use of electronic analogue computing machines for the study of dynamic systems. The transient solution of even the simpler problems is difficult and laborious to obtain by classical mathematical methods, and for this reason analogues of these systems are being used extensively to facilitate their study and design. Since large quantities of data for a considerable range of variables are required to properly evaluate system performance, the analogue method of study is most useful. When the systems under study contain elements which are erratic or involve nonlinearities, the analogue computer is even more important."
"The line amplifiers for the L3 coaxial system are designed to compensate for the loss of the 4 miles of cable which separate the repeaters; the flat amplifiers are used to compensate for equalizer loss and as transmitting amplifiers. The two types are basically similar, consisting of two feedback amplifiers in tandem, separated by an interamplifier network; in the line amplifier, this network is variable, and is automatically adjusted to compensate for variations in cable temperature, and for small deviations from the nominal 4-mile spacing."
"The Bell System's new N1 carrier system is a low-energy cable carrier system and is subject to interference from existing carriers with overlapping frequencies and higher energy levels. This paper is concerned with the development of a suppression device to prevent energy from the M1 open-wire carrier system disturbing the channels of the N1 system. The problem is complicated by the requirement that other types of open-wire carrier systems, notably the 01 system, must work through the suppression unit. Field tests of the suppression unit developed, consisting of a low-pass filter with mid-point grounded indicate satisfactory transverse and longitudinal loss to the unwanted M1 frequencies without degrading the performance of the line at frequencies below the M1 band."
"The purpose of this study is to investigate the electric strength of air in the frequency range of 2.0 to 16.0 megacycles per second, using a central wire and cylinder as electrodes. Work has previously been done with a similar electrode arrangement up to 1.5 megacycles per second.1 A reduction in breakdown voltage up to 6.0 per cent was noted in this instance. The present investigation shows that above 2.0 megacycles per second, the breakdown voltages are an average of 32.0 per cent under the corona starting voltages, at 60 cycles per second."
"In the wartime development of the air-borne magnetometer, a method of detecting extremely small changes in magnitudes of magnetic fields was developed. The principle involved was the use of a second-harmonic type of magnetic modulator now known as a magnettor. This instrument can detect changes in magnetic fields in the order of 10‾5 oersted. A study was made at Rutgers University under the sponsorship of Bell Telephone Laboratories to determine the feasibility of obtaining a standard of current using the magnettor principle. In this case, the magnettor was placed in a stable permanent-magnet field of a few oersteds and the field nulled by means of a solenoid carrying the current to be stabilized. This current was supplied by an electronic self-balancing system, which maintained a null condition. If a field of 1 oersted is used, an ultimate accuracy of one part in 105, or 0.001 per cent, might be expected."
"A study has been made of the effect of stress on the magnetic properties of ferrites. Rectangular hysteresis loops were obtained by encasing toroidal specimens in plasties which shrink during polymerization. Ferrites having this type of hysteresis loop are useful in magnetic switching and magnetic memory devices."
"SINCE 1936, a number of different telephotograph systems1 have been operated over the lines of the Bell System on a leased-wire basis. The requirements which a line facility must meet for such service are in several respects more severe than the requirements for voice-message service. Telephotograph- transmission requirements have usually specified that abrupt variations in line net loss should be limited to ±0.2 decibel, single frequency noise power should be at least 50 decibels below maximum signal power, and throughout the useful frequency band (1,200 to 2,600 cycles per second), the envelope delay should be equalized within ±300 microseconds. Such requirements were originally satisfied by using 4-wire H-44-25 side circuits in cable, where available, and elsewhere by using 2-wire open-wire side circuits. These facilities were delay-equalized over the necessary frequency range, and precautions were taken to minimize various transmission disturbances."
"Television terminals are required at circuit ends of the L3 coaxial system, at the transmitting end to condition video signals for carrier transmission, and at the receiving end to detect the transmitted signals. Special signal characteristics, that is, a degree of modulation which exceeds the value commonly referred to as 100 per cent modulation, require departures from standard modulating and detecting processes. The high degree of modulation requires both careful control of transmitted wave form and, at the receiver product, demodulation with phase-synchronous carrier (homodyne detection)."
"This paper describes a multipurpose instrument which can measure direct voltages in high-impedance circuits, small direct currents, and high resistances with good accuracy. The basic detector is a chopper-type stabilized feedback amplifier which is entirely a-c powered."
"The technical objectives of the design of a 1-kw ultrahigh-frequency television transmitter and the methods employed for achieving the desired results are outlined. The aural transmitter is described and details are given for the design of the frequency-lock system, which insures frequency stability of the aural relative to the visual transmitter. A single crystal-controlled oscillator is used to reference the frequency-modulation aural oscillator, and to provide the necessary frequency offset between aural and visual carrier frequencies. The frequency-multiplier and power-amplifier chain in the aural is described, with particular emphasis on the reasons for the engineering choices made. Power amplification and frequency multiplication are performed simultaneously in order that the most economical and reliable design can be obtained."
"MANY AUTHORS1‾7 of textbooks on electronics begin their discussion of feedback amplifiers with the block diagram given by Black.8 The general gain equation $A^{\\prime} = {A \\over 1-AB} \\eqno{\\hbox{(1)}}$ in which A is the gain without feedback and ß is the feedback fraction, is then derived, and the beneficial effects of feed back are discussed. In dealing with specific circuits, however, it is a common practice to write and solve the circuit equations, and then to manipulate the resulting gain equation into a form in which A and ß can be identified. In some cases, expressions for A and ß are simply stated and verified by substitution into the general equation."
"The analog-to-digital converter described receives analog information obtainable from a graph reader or other analog source and gives a corresponding numerical indication. A progressive coding scheme is used to lessen chances of wrong readings. Several circuits are given for obtaining digital indication, the basic principle being based on comparing the analog voltage with the sum of a finite geometric series. A readout circuit is described for converting the coded digital indication to conventional decimal form for visual reading or for punching International Business Machines (IBM) cards."
"This paper covers the theory and design of an instrument which measures, with the aid of an oscilloscope, the differential permeability of toroidal cores used in magnetic amplifiers. Additions and modifications are discussed which adapt the instrument for rapid selection of cores for production use, using a meter for an indicator. An important feature of the device is that all measurements are made before wire windings are placed on the cores."
"This paper describes a forcing-function generator which uses a conductive-plastic potentiometer to provide a forcing-function signal for testing servo systems and components. The unit described gives a sine-wave signal, but methods for generating a square wave or triangular wave are also discussed. A phase-measuring device is made an integral part of the function generator, and allows output versus input phase shift to be read directly from a calibrated dial."
"MOTION PICTURES have obviously required synchronized sound to match picture and words in all released prints. Perforated film has been the usual answer to this requirement ever since sound was added on film. But now that magnetic recording has shown such tremendous opportunities in quality and economy, the use of this facility for sound for motion pictures is immediately attractive. One answer has been, of course, the use of normal photographic film stock, coated however with iron oxide instead of the usual silver emulsions. And again perforations accomplished the lock-in. But 1/4-inch tape without sprocket holes is so much more flexible because of its thinness, takes up so much less space, and gives top quality with so little effort that its use would certainly be ideal if synchronism might also be accomplished."
"THIS DISCUSSION has to do with protective devices provided in the telephone system to furnish protection to telephone equipment and to personnel having occasion to use or maintain this plant. Particularly, the discussion will deal with protection available for use on circuits serving power stations and substations."
"THE SEARCH for simple abstract techniques to be applied to the design of switching systems is still, despite some recent advances, in its early stages. The problem in this area which has been attacked most energetically is that of the synthesis of efficient combinational that is, nonsequential, logic circuits."
"LOW-LEVEL electronic or electrical measurements are particularly susceptible to errors introduced by external electromagnetic influences. The coupling of spurious electromagnetic energy into a measuring system not only may result in the receipt of false information but also can sometimes cause the complete masking of the desired data as well. For these reasons, many low-level measurements, such as the determination of crystal characteristics, filter insertion loss, noise measurements, and the like, must be made in a location as free as possible from such interference. In a laboratory, such isolation from interference is usually achieved by completely enclosing an area in copper or bronze screening. By shielding off a region relatively free of external interference in this way, a working area is provided within which sensitive electronic measurements can be made."
"THE 12-channel N1 carrier system is designed primarily for short- and medium-haul service and to make use of existing, and new, cable plant with a minimum of special treatment. As compared to other types of carriers, the lower transmission levels of the N1 system tend to make it more susceptive to interference from external sources. The use of higher line frequencies with the corresponding decrease in coupling loss between line conductors tends to increase the amount of crosstalk between carrier systems. While the technical features of the N1 system have already been described,1 it may be well to review some of the characteristics that are of interest in connection with the control of noise and crosstalk on message circuits. These include: 1. Transmission of both side bands and the carrier. 2. A compandor per channel. At the transmitting end, a compressor raises the average talker volume by about 10 decibels (db) and reduces by one-half the normal range of talker volumes. At the receiving end, a complementary expandor restores the talker volumes to their normal range. 3. Transmission in the two directions in different frequency ranges on separate pairs in the same cable. Low-group frequency range, 44 to 140 kc; high-group range, 164 to 260 kc; frequency inversion at each repeater by modulating the signal with a 304-kc carrier. 4. In each repeater section the carriers at the high-frequency end of the band are transmitted at higher level than those at the low-frequency end. Because of the increase in attenuation with frequency, the relative levels at the receiving end are reversed."
"ELECTROLYTIC conductivity is a good example of a measurement which can be made most satisfactorily by using an a-c null-type instrument. The use of alternating current instead of direct current reduces polarization at the electrodes. The use of a null-type recorder permits the measurement of conductivity directly by means of a Wheatstone bridge, thus avoiding the need for voltage regulation. This paper describes difficulties encountered when an unimproved electronic balancing amplifier is tried for this type of instrument. Theory and performance of an improved amplifier are given."
"THE NEED FOR and part of the purpose of this paper is demonstrated by the following example: Fig. 1 shows a conducting ring linked by magnetic flux ϕ. Three identical voltmeters are connected symmetrically around the ring as shown. What will be the readings of the voltmeters in terms of the rate of change of the flux dϕ/dt and the ring resistance R?"
"IN MANY applications the commutator noise produced by conventional tachometers presents great problems. This is particularly true in cases where it is desirable to measure speed variations which have the same frequency components as the commutator noise. It is also true in some servomechanism systems where the commutator noise will saturate the amplifiers or will introduce a spurious response."
"The purpose of this paper is to explain the operation of magnetic amplifiers and to express power out, power gain, and time constant of the amplifier in terms of core and rectifier properties. The magnetic amplifiers under discussion are of the so-called low-control circuit-impedance type.1 To reduce the complexity of the analysis, many simplifying assumptions are made. While these assumptions introduce inaccuracies in the equations, the latter still serve effectively in establishing first-order relations among the variables. A large part of the analysis is applicable to core materials whose dynamic hysteresis (B-H) loop is not strictly rectangular, such as grain-oriented silicon steel."
"The breakdown mechanism of oil dielectric has not been fully understood. Information on impulse corona and breakdown are particularly meager. Breakdown theories postulated in the past are, in general, based on voltage measurements and are mostly restricted to uniform field conditions and slow-varying voltages. In the nonuniform field, previous results1 obtained with a point-to-plane configuration indicated a difference in streamer formation between the positive and negative polarities. The study, then, was based on corona-current measurements, and the formation mechanism was not completely clear. To study this further, data were obtained simultaneously with high-speed camera, still camera, and photocell, as well as current measuring devices, thus giving a correlated and clear picture of the breakdown process of oil."
"MAGNETIC CORES made with rectangular-hysteresis-loop ferromagnetic materials have recently gained prominence as binary elements in digital data-processing machines. The ability of the core to store binary information reliably and without power dissipation, and the ease with which the information can be read out or changed in a few microseconds make the core a useful and versatile component. Wherever they are applicable, magnetic-core circuits offer advantages over vacuum-tube circuits; the cores are rugged, have indefinite life, and require little power. Cores made with rectangular-hysteresis-loop ferromagnetic materials are being used in shift resisters,1 in memory systems,2, 3 and in logical and control circuits.4‾6"
"THE initial permeability of magnetic materials is a characteristic of great theoretical as well as practical importance. By definition, the initial permeability is equal to the ratio of the peak value of the flux density to the peak value of the exciting magnetizing field, when the latter approaches the value of zero. Due to the difficulties encountered in measuring the true initial permeability, the term is frequently applied in a rather loose manner to values which have been determined at peak flux density values of 5 gausses or more, or which have been obtained by extrapolating permeability-versus-field strength curves to the zero value of field strength."
"IN making frequency response tests of various devices, the phase and amplitude of the output must be measured when a signal having a known phase and amplitude is applied to the input. These data may be recorded in the form of a polar, or Nyquist, plot of amplitude with phase, frequency being varied as the parameter. If the input is set as the reference corresponding to a unit vector with its tip at the point (1,0) on the polar plot, then the locus of the vector representing the output of the device on the same polar plot will be the transfer function of the device throughout the range of frequencies being tested."
"FOUR papers have already discussed such features of the nation-wide toll switching plan as the fundamental plant layout, numbering plan, toll switching, and automatic accounting equipments.1-4 The present paper is intended to round out this coverage of the plan with a further discussion of the transmission features."
"A MEANS of measuring the copper temperature of a high-voltage generator conductor is described. A temperature potentiometer measures the temperature drop through the insulation. The temperature drop through the insulation added to the temperature of the outer surface of the insulation is the temperature of the copper."
"Wattmeter readings taken at low power factors or at higher frequencies should be corrected for frequency errors to insure the accuracy of which the instrument is capable. In addition to the error caused by the voltage circuit self-reactance, there exists an error due to the mutual reactance between the two circuits of a wattmeter. A practical method of correcting wattmeter readings for this error is presented and its use demonstrated. Wattmeter readings which have been corrected for the mutual reactance error in this way may be corrected for the voltage circuit self-reactance error by using the customary tables or correction factors in the conventional manner. Curves are shown of the two frequency errors as functions of the frequency and the deflection for a typical commercial low power-factor wattmeter."
"THIS PAPER PRESENTS some of the anomalies in the dielectric breakdown of sulfur hexafluoride SF6 as functions of pressure and electrode separation in a nonuniform field. The nonuniform field, although difficult to analyze, is of considerable importance from the engineering viewpoint as it is the condition most generally encountered in electrical apparatus. At atmospheric pressure, sulfur hexafluoride has unexpectedly high 60-cycle breakdown voltage for large gaps. In this case, the presence of corona precedes sparkover. This was termed “corona-stabilized breakdown” in a recent paper by Camilli, Gordon, and Plump.1 This phenomenon will be explained by showing the effect of electrode spacing on the position of the maximum which occurs in the curve of sparkover voltage versus gas pressure. The d-c 60-cycle and impulse-breakdown voltage, as well as corona-onset voltage, will be discussed. The time required for corona stabilization to occur will be indicated."
"CONVENTIONAL METHODS of calculating rectifier voltage regulation are valid only if the angle of overlap is less than 360 degrees divided by the number of phases. At larger angles of overlap an inherent delay angle, introduced by a-c reactance common to two or more simple rectifiers, reduces the direct voltage and thereby increases the voltage regulation. This phenomenon has been described in two papers,1, 2 recently presented to the Institute, in which curves and equations for determining voltage regulation of 6-phase rectifiers were given. Two earlier articles5, 4 recognized the phenomenon in 6-phase circuits."
"THIS paper contains the results of a series of temperature tests conducted on a 6AQ5 beam power tetrode at full rating at simulated altitudes and ambient temperatures. The effects of altitude, shielding, tube position, and ambient temperature on temperature rise of the hottest spot of the glass envelope are shown. A few measurements were made of the effect of surrounding a single tube by a cluster of other tubes of the same type and rating. The tube was not delivering any output."
"The potentials and limitations of high dielectric constant capacitors are briefly outlined. Additives used to modify the dielectric properties of BaTiO3 are listed and classified into two groups: 1. the “shifters,” whose additions primarily cause a shift in the temperature of the Curie peak, and 2. the “depressors,” whose additions result primarily in a depression of the Curie peak. The effect of BaSnO3 and PbSnO3 additions are used to illustrate the behavior of the shifter group, and the variations in the performance of the other members of this group are discussed. Similarly, the effect of additions of MgSnO3, Bi2(SnO3)3, MgTiO3, and CaTiO3 are shown as typical of the behavior of members of the second group. Generalizations are offered regarding the effect of composition on nonlinearity and aging, and these are illustrated."
"THE joint use of wood poles by supply and communication companies has been an established way of doing business for well over 50 years. Because of changing technologies in both the power and telephone fields the successful co-ordination of facilities on the same pole line requires continuous review. It is the purpose of this paper to discuss the problems which were introduced by the trends to higher supply voltages."
"This paper describes a new type of magnetic amplifier having inherent self-balancing potentiometer characteristics. By means of a special compound feedback circuit, extreme stability and the fulfillment of balance conditions in the control circuit are obtained. Positive external feedback or self-feedback produces an effectively infinite gain that is highly degenerated by negative feedback resistance-coupled into the control circuit loop. Thus, in the case of voltage, as well as current input, the balanced control circuit demands practically no energy from the input source. The effective input resistance of a self-balancing magnetic amplifier for voltage measurements is about 100 to 1,000 times higher than the actual input circuit loop resistance; the effective input resistance of a self-balancing magnetic amplifier for current measurements is about 100 to 1,000 times smaller than the actual resistance of the control windings."
"THE growing need for improved types of data storage systems in both the digital computer and telephone switching fields has led to the investigation of ferroelectric materials as memory devices. Among the objectives in developing these devices have been low power consumption while storing or reading out information, memory access times of 1 microsecond or less, small size per bit of memory, simplified low cost construction, and high reliability. This paper presents an explanation of the operation of a basic storage circuit employing a ferroelectric material, requirements for suitable materials, descriptions of several types of circuits employing ferroelectrics, and experimental data obtained with operating circuits."
"RADIO receivers respond to radio transmitters by virtue of antennas which couple them both to free space. As compared with wires, free space is an inefficient coupling medium, and it has erratic efficiency changes. These changes are well known as fading, skip, and sporadic effects, which vary with distance, direction, frequency, and time."
"THIS paper describes a new general-purpose electromagnetic relay for use in telephone switching systems. It is a wire spring relay known as the AF-type relay and, with variations which provide slow release or marginal characteristics, it is known as the AG and AJ relay respectively. Figure 1 shows a typical AF-type relay, Figure 2 shows all of the parts of the relay, and Figure 3 shows the relay assembly."
"TYPE-O carrier, the most recent addition to the carrier series, is designed to supply additional telephone circuits to the many communities served by open-wire facilities. This new system supplements, rather than supersedes, the older open-wire systems such as types C, H, and J. Type-C and J carrier systems were designed primarily for long circuits, 2,000 miles or more, and consequently cost more than buying new wire for short distances. This leaves an important field of use for an economical short-haul carrier system, particularly below 150 miles."
"IN 1946, the authors disclosed a new design for an a-c network analyzer1 operating at 10,000 cycles. The pilot-model analyzer reported at that time was used extensively during the next 2 years upon small sample systems for testing its performance."
"THE magnetic amplifier and magnetic devices in general have garnered an enviable reputation for reliability and maintenance-free operation1 in their not-so-short history.2 For these reasons these devices have been a subject of considerable interest3, 4 to the computer field wherein electron tube failure is a major headache. There have been many magnetic devices developed for use in this field, but for the most part they either have been slow (requiring several cycles of excitation frequency for build-up of output) or have not exhibited any considerable power gain. Speed of response is quite important for this determines computing speed. Power gain is quite important, for in a given computer these devices must be cascaded so that one device operates others as well as associated registering or indicating devices."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the title page of this issue of the periodical."
"IF ONE were to indicate in a single word the over-all characteristic of the 1952 Democratic and Republic political conventions, it would be difficult to avoid choosing “quantity.” From a political standpoint, certainly at no other event in recent history was manifest the number of candidates, the number of delegates, the number of committees, or the number of commentaries by a not inconsiderable group of reporters. However, the most striking application of this word is to the means by which the first large-scale television coverage of these events was provided over such an extended period of time. The concentration of equipment and personnel in Chicago, Ill., during this period was unprecedented for any event, making the television camera as all-pervading as was the microphone at previous conventions. This was most graphically illustrated at the Republican convention after General Eisenhower was selected as candidate. There were cameras at his suite in the Blackstone Hotel, cameras to cover his exit from the hotel as he departed on his trip to the Amphitheatre, cameras along the street as he made his journey, cameras outside the Amphitheatre, ad infinitum."
"STATIC capacitors have come into widespread use as an efficient and economical source of reactive power for a-c systems. Harmonic voltages are sometimes a problem when applying capacitors to a system."
"Low cost machine scans punched tape produced by customer-dialed long-distance calls and prints a ticket or punches a card for each call. Process includes automatic rate selection and charge computation."
"THE development procedure for designing the control system for a nuclear power plant is basically the same procedure as for any other type of power plant. The presence of a nuclear reactor as a component in the system imposes many unusual design problems. The purpose of this article is to review general plant considerations affecting control system design, giving special emphasis to the features of reactor control."
"DURING the last few years several laboratories in the United States have been carrying on investigations directed toward supplementing the present monochrome television service with transmissions in color. In most cases these investigations of color television systems have been confined to proposals which were expected to receive the wide public acceptance which has characterized monochrome television. The probable commercial success of a color television system may be estimated by noting the degree to which it satisfies certain important criteria. One of these resides in the fact that the system should be “compatible.” That is, it is desirable, that television broadcasts in color should be reproduced in monochrome by the 20,000,000 odd black-and-white receivers now in the hands of the public without the necessity of modifying these receivers in any way. Second, in addition to providing full color to a color receiver, the system should provide as high a degree of pictorial definition to both monochrome and color receivers as is now realized in the monochrome service. Third, as a purely technical matter, the radio-frequency spectrum space allocated to the television service should be utilized as efficiently as possible. The color television system which is now being field-tested by the National Television System Committee (NTSC)1, 2 represents the results of these investigations. This system satisfies these criteria in large measure."
"The steady increase in the severity of operating conditions for capacitors and the need for more diverse characteristics has spurred the search for new and better capacitor dielectrics. The synthetic plastics industry, which is the source of a number of useful dielectric materials, has recently produced a new and promising dielectric in film form known as polyethylene terephthalate or \"Mylar.\" This material is unusually strong, has a high softening point, and is available in very thin films which makes it especially suitable for capacitor insulation. The electrical characteristics of capacitors wound with Mylar film are likewise promising. As compared to mineral-oil-impregnated paper capacitors, unimpregnated Mylar capacitors exhibit higher dielectric strength, higher insulation resistance, and can be operated at higher ambient temperatures. Their loss characteristics are comparable with those of impregnated paper and the capacitance stability over the usual range of ambient temperatures approaches that of mica capacitors. Mylar is relatively nonhygroscopic and tests indicate that for moderate atmospheric conditions capacitors made from it do not require additional moisture protection. The film can be metallized readily by current techniques and, when used in metallized capacitors, appears to possess advantages over metallized paper in several respects."
"IN THE design of digital computers the input and output data are often fed in or taken out in analogue form. These analogue forms may be voltages, pressures, meter readings, graphs, and so forth. At some point the output signals usually have to be converted from electronic form to mechanical motions or to indications of some nature."
"BILLING data for customer-dialed local and toll telephone messages are now recorded and processed by means of the automatic message accounting (AMA) system in the areas of seven principal cities in the Bell System network."
"A method of design is described for flip-flops subject to any set of requirements and examples of the method are given. The method is simple and fast. It takes into consideration those variations which may occur in the values of circuit components and leads to practical values of resistance and voltage."
"When the first automatic telephone office was placed in public service at La Porte, Ind., in 1892, automatic switching and subscriber dialing became established facts. During the years following this notable event in the history of telephone communication, Automatic Electric Company through constant research and development of switching equipment and operating methods expanded the field of automatic switching from local exchange areas to suburban and toll networks. By 1910 operator toll dialing was introduced whereby originating toll operators were enabled to complete calls to automatic stations in distant towns by toll dialing.1 Operator toll dialing was then expanded to provide switching of toll circuits through tandem and switching centers. During the period from 1920 to 1940, several regional automatic toll switching networks were established in various parts of the United States and Canada."
"THE possibility of constructing a comb filter by commutating the input signal to a bank of capacitors through a series resistor has been suggested in the literature.1 A theoretical investigation of the properties of such a filter is given in the following analysis."
"Capacitors whose capacitance is a function of voltage can be made using commercially available barium strontium titanate ceramics. Such nonlinear capacitors can be used as controllable impedances to form a dielectric amplifier. Using nonresonant circuits without transformers or feedback, amplifiers have been tested and found to give a large power amplification. but with an output voltage less than the input voltage. Using resonant circuits a voltage amplification of four has been obtained with the same materials."
"The properties of some fluorinated liquids are reviewed. They have low dielectric constants and low power factors over wide frequency and temperature ranges. They also have high dielectric strengths. A range of boiling points is available to make possible high vapor densities at relatively low temperatures. Utilization of this in electrical applications is feasible with these compounds since they meet requirements of nonflammability, stability, and compatibility with metals and insulation which are not satisfied entirely by other materials. Low water absorption and high thermal stability are additional reasons for interest in these materials."
"ANY good magnetically soft type of core material is suitable for low- and medium-performance magnetic amplifiers. For these types, the permeability and core loss have only minor effects upon the control characteristic of the magnetic amplifier. If the saturation density is reasonably high and the core loss is reasonably low, then the material probably will be suitable for such amplifiers."
"An approximation method for determining the input impedance of a resistive circuit, or one in which the reactance-resistance ratio is the same for every branch, hence permitting treatment as a resistive circuit, is presented. The method is based on the minimum power-dissipation characteristics of such networks and provides both an upper and a lower bound to the true impedance. It is presented with the view that in certain cases, as in power-system short-circuit calculations where the resistive component may often be neglected, the necessity of evaluating high-order determinants or manipulating star-mesh transformations can be eliminated."
"The characteristics of gaseous chemical compounds containing fluorine are reviewed. Relative dielectric strengths, toxicities, space charge effects, electrode material, prèssure effects, and so forth, are discussed. Several explanations accounting for observed differences in dielectric strength among gases are noted and shown to be inadequate for the complete understanding of all cases. A line of attack for fuller understanding is suggested in the considerations of the molecular energy systems. Some possible potentialities of gaseous fluorine compounds in electric equipment are also reviewed."
"THE barium oxide indirectly heated oxide cathode came into wide use in 1927 and has since virtually dominated the field of ordinary receiving tubes and many other special types as well. The purpose of this article is to review its present status from the standpoint of the electronics engineer rather than that of the physicist. The role of the cathode alloy as well as some of the possibilities and shortcomings of such a cathode as used in the commercial production of electron tubes will be emphasized. In such a discussion it is necessary, first, to review the possible mechanisms of emission; second, to consider the performance characteristics of oxide cathodes; and third, to offer some comments upon the properties of the various cathode nickel alloys and their effect upon cathode performance."
"DIATHERMY, or heating of deep tissues, must be accomplished through the absorption of radiant energy in the region to be heated. Conduction methods such as infrared or hot packing fail because of the rapid convection of heat by the flow of blood. Conventionally diathermy has come to be synonymous with high-frequency electromagnetic heating. Recently, however, ultrasonic energy has been introduced to accomplish a somewhat similar clinical purpose."
"Design of impedance transforming band-pass filters for use at radio frequencies often involves the criterion of maximum realizable impedance ratio with a minimum number of sections. A fundamental method is described for achieving this design criterion and illustrated for some simple cases."
"The determination of reactive properties requires the use of sensitive bridge techniques, whenever the reactance is very small compared with the resistance. The following article describes an accurate Wheatstone bridge which permits resistance and reactance determinations within the frequency range from 10 to 200,000 cycles per second. The maximum accuracy for resistance determinations is one part in 10‾7 the accuracy for reactance depends on frequency and power factor. The various inductance values of the resistance coils cause negative capacities, which are especially high when the resistance values are smaller than 100 ohms. A simple and accurate technique for determination of these capacities is described."
"Contrary to a long-standing belief, thoriated-tungsten filaments can be used as electron emitters in high-power vacuum tubes with a reliability equal to that established by low-power types. High-power types may be defined as those having unmodulated class C plate voltage ratings of greater than 5,000 volts. The use of thoriated-tungsten filaments in high-power types has been made possible by the use of new and improved materials and processing techniques. In the radio broadcast field, performance of these high-power tubes has been excellent. In the industrial field, tubes having thoriated-tungsten filaments are continuing to set new records after as much as 22 months of uninterrupted full-load service at plate voltages as high as 17,000 volts. Such performance, in addition to the lower cost of equipment components and lower cost of operation due to reduced filament-power requirements, makes these tubes very attractive for industrial applications."
"A survey of some of the more important theoretical ideas of electrocardiography is presented for the consumption of the electrical engineer. The development, importance, and objectives of electrocardiography are discussed briefly, followed by a description of the electrical activity of the human heart and the potentials it produces at the surface of the body. Standard connections used in electrocardiography are described. A simplified theory is developed based upon a homogeneous, spherical conducting model containing a current dipole at its center, and the weakness of the assumptions on which it is based is pointed out. The concept and use of the heart vector is treated and methods of portraying heart-vector functions, similar to impedance functions, are illustrated. A limited description is given of the new field of vectorcardiography."
"IT HAS long been apparent that the ideal reproducer for color television should consist of a single kinescope capable of displaying the color picture directly. Considerable interest in the problem has resulted in quite a number of proposals for single-tube color kinescopes, and much time and effort has been expended in experimental work. No systematic review of the literature will be given nor will a description of the operating principles of the various kinds of proposed tubes be undertaken, for an article covering these subjects has recently been published.1 Rather, it is the purpose of this paper to give an over-all description of the Radio Corporation of America (RCA) 3-gun shadow-mask color tube including its construction and operating characteristics."
"ANY power system, either present or proposed, may be reproduced in miniature and studied in careful detail with an a-c network analyzer. This device has become a powerful tool in designing and operating electric systems to cope with the rapid expansion of electrical facilities throughout the country. Its increased usage is reflected in the number of analyzers either built or planned, and in the waiting period of several months required to obtain a position on the schedule of those analyzers available for rental."
"THE proton linear accelerator installation at the University of Minnesota requires as one of its power supplies a d-c source capable of delivering continuously 4 amperes at 110 kv. This power represents the plate supply for four resnatron tubes which provide the radio-frequency power to excite the resonant cavities of the accelerator proper. The design of a power supply capable of meeting these requirements was complicated by the limited amount of available space."
"Most of the world's submarine cable mileage lies in soft ocean bottom where the customary armor wires are not required for protection of insulation against abrasion. An experimental length of unarmored cable having polyethylene insulation over a central conducting core of cadmium bronze sufficiently strong to permit of laying and repair has recently been laid. This paper describes the mechanical and electrical design features, the problems encountered in laying and repair at sea and their solutions."
"The questionable accuracy of radio-frequency microvoltages has been of great concern to the radio field for many years. There is an urgent need for a simple, yet reliable, source of microvolts for measurements in general and for radio receiver sensitivity determinations in particular. Extremely simple devices, which seem to satisfy that need most adequately, were recently developed. They are sources of potential drop obtained across a known resistance through which known currents flow. These devices provide constant voltage sources of accurate microvolts over a range of 1 to 105 and wider, at all frequencies to 300 megacycles and higher. They are adaptable for balanced as well as for unbalanced sources. Their electrical constants are simply determined by using known direct voltages and currents. Basic principles, design features, and applications are discussed."
"A SERIES of load-dropping tests on ignitron rectifier circuits was conducted during March 1952 on an aluminum potline at the Mead (Wash.) Works of the Kaiser Aluminum and Chemical Corporation. The purpose of these tests was to obtain fundamental data on current and voltage surges encountered in a large ignitron rectifier installation when the potline load was tripped off by each of the following methods."
"THE billing of 140,000,000 toll messages a month to 17,000,000 toll using customers, representing about 60 per cent of the total telephone customers, is a major operation involving approximately 15,000 Bell System clerical employees. Toll message volumes have more than doubled in the past 10 years, and further growth seems likely. While many important improvements have been made in the billing processes in order to handle the increased volume more effectively, the mechanization of this work continues to remain a challenge."
"ALINEAR inductive reactor can be symbolically represented in several different ways. The first and most common presentation is shown in Figure 1, where L is a pure inductance and R a pure resistance. The current 1 as a function of the applied step voltage E is in operational form1 $I = {E \\over R+PL} \\eqno{\\hbox{(1)}}$"
"AS THE load on a rectifier increases from no load to short circuit, several modes of operation are encountered. The number and characteristics of these modes depend on the connection of the rectifier transformer and rectifying elements,1,2 and the distribution of impedances in the coupled circuits.3,4"
"THE USER of electrical apparatus is constantly in need of information concerning the condition of the insulation. This information, at the present time, is supplied by such tests as insulation resistance, power factor, capacitance, or by more severe tests such as “high-pot.” Unfortunately, none of these tests give a true indication of the “health” of the dielectric but rather indicate its present condition — a condition that may exist only temporarily and can be corrected by suitable action. It is, of course, important to have this information; however, it is of equal importance in many applications to have an indication of the useful life than can be expected from the dielectric at any time during its use."
"This paper is the first of a series of papers dealing with a comprehensive study of superregenerative detection. It deals with superregenerative circuits under no-signal condition; the second paper1 deals with the same circuits under signal condition, and the third paper2 is an experimental investigation and verification for the theoretical analysis of papers 1 and 2."
"IN EITHER the design or the application of a resistance bridge circuit, it may be necessary to calculate the output of the bridge in terms of input or vice versa. The purpose of the calculation may be to establish the required sensitivity of a galvanometer, meter, or of any other null detector or output device, which is to be energized by a resistance change in the bridge, or it may be necessary to determine the input voltage or current required for minimum operation. Upon occasion, an exact calculation may be required to calibrate the output indicator, as in the deflection types of resistance thermometer or strain-gauge bridges. The formulas and correction factors presented in Table I were developed by the author for convenience in performing such calculations."
"Two new electronic apparatus are introduced, in which the main element is a cathode-ray tube. The first is a synchroscope. The bus-bar voltage causes the beam to trace a circle, while the incoming machine voltage gives a pulse every cycle. The pulse is either applied to the Y-deflection plates or to the grid of the tube. In the first case it appears as a “pip” rotating round the circle, while in the latter case a luminous spot is seen to trace a circle. The behavior of both the pip and the spot is similar to that of the pointer of an ordinary synchroscope. The second apparatus is an automatic synchronizer. It is based on the same principle as the synchroscope, but uses a special cathode-ray tube in which the fluorescent screen is replaced by two collecting electrodes. When the pulse is applied to the grid of the tube, the beam current flows to one electrode or the other, and when it flows to the proper electrode, it causes a relay to operate which in turn causes the synchronizing circuit breaker to close. Both apparatus are discussed, and a description including the design data of an actual experimental synchroscope is given."
"ACCORDING to the simple approximate magnetic amplifier theory, a plot of the average output current against the control current of a self-saturating magnetic amplifier has the shape of the left-hand portion of the hysteresis loop of the core material. Maximum amplification thus calls for the use of a core material having a rectangular hysteresis loop."
"A3-KW unconfined glow discharge in air at pressures from 0.3 to 10 millimeters of mercury has been observed in the presence of transverse magnetic flux densities from 0 to 7,000 gausses. Effects observed as the magnetic flux density is increased include: 1. The voltages of the positive column and the anode fall space exhibit very pronounced increases, the former by a factor of at least 100 between zero magnetic field and 6,000 gausses; see Figure 6. 2. The cathode fall of potential exhibits an initial rapid decrease, then a levelling off; in combination with item 1 this results in a minimum value of total discharge potential at an intermediate magnetic flux density; see Figure 6. 3. A transverse wind, directed according to the motor rule, is generated by the positive column plasma; see Figure 4. 4. The equipotentials become skewed, passing diagonally through the discharge; see Figure 5. 5. Cathode fall space phenomena, including the negative glow and the Crookes and Faraday dark spaces, become very much compressed; see Figure 2. 6. The positive column and the anode regions become much more luminous because of their greatly increased gradients; see Figure 2. 7. The sputtering rate increases greatly. 8. Random potential fluctuations, see Figure 7, increase in amplitude, and their characteristic frequency first increases, then decreases. 9. Movement of cathode fall electrons parallel to the magnetic field produces a sharply delimited hollow shell of discharge resembling an axial extension of the cathode post; see Figure 2."
"This paper presents a mathematical analysis of a general series circuit composed of an inductance and a resistance in series with a nonlinear capacitor. The analysis is based on the assumption that the saturation curve of the dielectric material of the capacitor may be represented by a hyperbolic sine function. A 1-term approximation of the forced steady-state oscillation of the circuit produced by the application of a periodic electromotive force and bias potential is obtained. This one term solution gives the best “least squares” approximation to the amplitude and phase of the steady-state charge and current oscillation of the system and reduces to the usual expression for the steady-state current, if the capacitor is linear. The method of analysis is a general one and is applicable to many problems of forced oscillations of nonlinear dynamical systems, both electric and mechanical. It depends on a procedure by which the “mean square error” involved in the 1-term approximation is minimized. Several special cases are considered, and an estimate of the natural frequency of the free oscillations of the circuit is obtained."
"INVESTIGATIONS made during the past few years have shown that methods normally used for the calculation of rectifier voltage regulation have definite limitations not generally appreciated by application engineers. It has been established that conventional methods of calculating regulation are valid only if the angle of overlap is less than 300 degrees divided by the number of phases. With larger overlap angles any a-c reactance common to two or more simple rectifiers introduces a delay angle, even though the rectifiers are operated without intentional delay. This inherent delay reduces the direct voltage and therefore increases the voltage regulation. In special applications involving large overlap angles, these limitations are of primary importance, because considerable error is possible if they are not recognized."
"Extensive design investigations with the presently most important permanent-magnet materials have disclosed that optimum operating conditions for all practical interesting demagnetizing conditions are confined to minor hysteresis loops originating from a portion of the main demagnetization curve between the point of maximum-energy product and a point below, which differs for various materials. It has also been revealed that the results of design methods, based on the assumption of one constant slope for all minor loops, may be rather sensitive to the choice of the constant value. Combining both results in the use of an average slope value computed for the confined optimum range, new design relations for permanent magnets subjected to demagnetizing effects by varying either external reluctance or externally applied magnetomotive force have been developed. They can be utilized to derive analytically or graphically general design charts for each permanent-magnet material, permitting the direct reading of the optimum per-unit values of the magnet dimensions, depending upon the degree of demagnetization, and the selection of the material which offers the smallest size or the most suitable shape for a considered application. Interrelations for the two types of demagnetization have been developed."
"EARLY in 1943 a 6,667-kw electronic frequency changer, using mercury-arc rectifiers, was installed in the Gary Sheet and Tin Mill of the United States Steel Corporation, at Gary, Ind., to provide a nonsynchronous tie between the 25-cycle and 60-cycle power systems, for the controlled interchange of power in either direction.1 All the 25-cycle power is generated in the steel company's plants in the Chicago district. The 60-cycle system is supplied by the steel company's generating equipment and by the Northern Indiana Public Service Company. The generating capacity of each system is over 200,000 kw."
"The purpose of the present paper is the development of a theory for analyzing nonlinear iron-cored inductance oscillatory circuits where the forced behavior of the system is considered."
"This is the second of a series of papers dealing with a comprehensive study of superregenerative detection. In the first paper1 the analysis under no-signal condition was given. In this paper, the analysis of superregenerative circuits under signal condition is presented. It is shown that the amplitude to which the oscillation under signal condition builds up, depends fundamentally on the quenching source and the nonlinearity of the tube characteristic. The automatic volume control action, the sensitivity, the selectivity, the stability, and the synchronization with the signal voltage or the semisynchronization (the synchronization with one of the equivalent side bands) of the signal voltage are clearly explained. The existing idea that the effect of the signal is merely to start a free oscillation with an amplitude depending on the signal is erroneous and does not conform with the fact. What actually happens when the signal is present, is that the system must, in general, be in some state of synchronization with the signal frequency or with one of the equivalent side bands. This latter is defined as semisynchronization. In order to have satisfactory reception, the free oscillation is generally suppressed. In general, no previous author has mentioned such synchronization or semisynchronization processes. Numerical examples are given for clarification."
"This is the third of a series of papers dealing with a comprehensive study of superregenerative detection. In the first paper1 the analysis under no-signal condition was given. In the second paper2 the analysis under signal condition was presented. In the present paper, an experimental investigation on superregenerative receiving circuits is carried out to clarify most of the phenomenon involved in these circuits, among which are: the selectivity, the sensitivity, the optimum quench frequency, and the most important phenomena, namely, the synchronization with the signal voltage at the signal frequency ω1/2π and the semisynchronization or the synchronization with one of the equivalent side bands (that is, the synchronization at a frequency equal to (ω1 ± np)/2π', p/2π = quench frequency). In this way, the operating mechanism of superregenerative detectors is clearly explained. For proper reception, free oscillations are generally suppressed. The experimental results are in good agreement with the theoretical predictions given in the preceding papers.1, 2"
"THE TECHNOLOGICAL advances in the art of telegraphy, starting with the original simple Morse key, sounder, and relay, and progressing to the semiautomatic, and then the fully automatic selective-switching system in a modern telegraph office of today, have justified the modernization of the wire and cable network, insuring efficiency of operation and dependability of the complex electronic equipment, which is in continuous operation over a wide range of frequencies and operating conditions. An extremely essential component of this network is the wire plant concentrated in each of the mechanized communication centers where the proper functioning of the automatic equipment is dependent upon the performance of some 3,000 miles of high-grade wire conductors and more than 1,000,000 intricate wire connections."
"Transforming the nonlinear equations representing the free and synchronized oscillations to linear ones with periodically varying coefficients, the complete solutions of oscillator equations to the first power of the tube parameters are obtained. The relation between frequency variation and harmonic contents is given. The effect of the harmonics on the asymmetry of the resonance curves of a synchronized oscillator is obtained for the first time. Experimental verification has been carried out, and the results agree well with the theoretical predictions."
"HERE IN America, we have never been subjected to the kind of devastating all-out home-front attack that was launched against so many cities and towns of Europe, Asia, and Africa during World War II. There are those who may ask, what is civil defense and why does it need communications? Let us consider first, what civil defense is. Briefly, civil defense may be described as the protection of the home front by civilians, acting under civil authority, to minimize casualties and war damage and to preserve the maximum civilian support of the war effort. When a country is under threatened or actual attack, civil defense becomes a full partner of the military in the defense of that country. In recent years civil defense has grown in importance because the progress of air warfare has increased the possibilities of attacks on the civil populace. Industries, vital facilities, and population centers are all likely targets for hostile attack."
"IN PLANNING the construction of a microwave-radio relay system, it is of utmost importance that the sites for the terminal and intermediate stations be so selected that undesirable radio-propagation conditions are avoided. At the same time it is desirable, for reasons of economy to minimize the number of intermediate stations required, and to utilize the smallest towers which will give satisfactory radio transmission. In order to achieve these objectives great care must be exercised in the selection of the station sites."
"IT IS ordinarily desirable to operate a radio-frequency or other transmission line with standing-wave ratio as close to unity as possible. When the voltage standing-wave ratio (VSWR) is less than 10, means such as the Smith chart are available for making impedance computations with an accuracy sufficiently good for many purposes. However, in some cases it is desirable or unavoidable to operate the line with high standing-wave ratios. When the VSWR is around 100 the Smith chart is quite satisfactory for reactance but affords no degree of accuracy in reading resistance. This is due to the difficulty of reading even one significant figure on that scale near the periphery, and also to eccentricity in locating the movable arm or the dividers on the center point of the chart."
"IN RECENT years independent telephone companies have become acutely aware of steadily decreasing net profits on short-distance toll-call operation. The recording, for billing purposes, of certain information concerning the toll call has required the assistance of an operator. For this reason, manual toll switching has been retained in spite of the fact that mechanical systems for performing the actual switching functions have been available for many years. Fixed toll charges and rising labor costs have combined to make it extremely difficult for the operating companies to realize a profit on this phase of their business."
"POISSONIAN or distributed source fields occur often in present-day problems dealing with such subjects as torsional stress analysis, heat transfer, viscous fluid flow, eddy currents, and electric and magnetic fields. Since the mathematical solution of Poissonian fields has only been possible in several special cases, physical analogues have been developed for 2-dimensional fields. A highly successful physical analogue is the sandbed fluid mapper.1‾3 This paper describes an electric analogue mapper which was originated and developed by the authors. The analogue can give directly usable 2-dimensional solutions of high accuracy."
"THE EXPECTATION of the purchaser of industrial equipment is no different from that of the purchaser of any other form of equipment or, in fact, from our own when we purchase things for use or pleasure. Reliability is expected. Such reliability, however, includes more than long life, important as that may be; it also means long periods of freedom from readjustment and similar annoyances. The following observations relative to factors which enter into such reliability were obtained from experience in the field of industrial electronics, especially as found in the heavy industries. A word of caution is in order at this point: The impression that electronic equipment is hopelessly involved with repeated failures is not a true one. What is reported as in need of correction is actually based upon the known facts that performance to date has been such as to commit industry to the use of electronic means, and that the desired improvements are possible and worthwhile."
"THE NEW JERSEY Turnpike carries by far the greatest traffic load of any toll highway, anywhere. Its peak day totalled 84,132 vehicles; its peak month, 2,004,000; for the year 1952, 18,239,000. Its cost will total some $285,000,000; that of its communications system and related facilities, less than 0.1 per cent of this figure."
"This article describes one of the world's most powerful radio telegraph transmitters. Recently built for the United States Navy, it is conservatively rated at 1,000-kw output over the 15- to 35-kc frequency range. Its use will ensure reliable communication with the United States Fleet even when high-frequency services are interrupted by magnetic disturbances. Unique features include the first use of super-power electron tubes having a power gain of at least 250; 10-microsecond fault protection; a variable master oscillator with 0.001 percent frequency stability, and provisions for frequency-shift teletype signalling."
"In quality control work, it is often necessary to determine the mean and the standard deviation of an important variable. To accomplish this, a measurement system has been developed for applications in which the material is tested while moving continuously, most of the necessary calculating functions being performed by two new integrating instruments. This paper describes the application of such a system to the measurement of yarn thickness."
"IN THE 15 years since Shannon1 introduced the Boolean algebra as an aid towards the analysis and synthesis of switching circuits, this algebra has proved to be a worthwhile addition to the procedures available to the switching circuit designer. Although, in its present form, it cannot be employed to solve many of the problems by which the designer is confronted, the switching algebra provides an exceedingly effective technique in those cases where its use is indicated."
"NATION-WIDE dialing is one of the more recent advances in the telephone art and has been the subject of papers presented before the AIEE.1 The heart of nation-wide dialing is the new no. 4A toll crossbar switching system. It is this system which, at the various control switching points, receives the digits dialed by the toll operators or by the subscribers. It then automatically determines the routing of the call to any destination in the United States, as well as in Canada, and proceeds to establish the connection to succeeding control switching points or to the local office. In this system it is necessary to translate the digits received into information as to the location of trunks on the switches, the kind of outpulsing required, the number of digits to send forward, and other such instructions."
"This paper describes a system for adjusting a control element to produce a maximum or minimum value of a resulting parameter. The control element is scanned through its entire range of adjustment and returned to the position resulting in the desired maximum or minimum effect. In a system where several maxima or minima are present, the tuning equipment reliably selects the largest. The apparatus required is simple and easily understood and maintained by relatively unskilled personnel."
"The L3 coaxial system is a new broad-band facility for use with existing and new coaxial cables. It makes possible the transmission of 1,860 telephone channels or 600 telephone channels and a television channel in each direction on a pair of coaxial tubes. The principal system design problems and the methods used in their solution are described. The over-all system is described in terms of its components and their location in the system."
"The equalization and regulation problems of the L3 system are described and a theory of equalization of complex systems is outlined. The location and function of the various equalizers are explained, including the roles and design of the various fixed, dynamic, and manual equalizer networks. The analogue computer used in the regulation system is described, together with the cosine-equalizer adjusting technique used with manual equalizers. Finally the circuits and operation of the regulation system and its components are presented."
"AS THE name implies, the recombination process describes the situation in which a neutral gas is ionized and the electrons and ions which are thus formed recombine to form neutral atoms and molecules again. Its importance in the field of gas discharge derives from the fact that this process constitutes one of the important agencies whereby charges disappear from a discharge. From the point of view of physics in general, it is one of the fundamental processes which all the artillery of classical and modern physics must be capable of explaining."
"IN CALCULATING the short-circuit currents on a d-c system and the contribution by a particular machine, the task would be greatly simplified if each connected machine could be replaced by an equivalent machine having a constant electromotive force (emf) and linear internal resistance and inductance. Even the highly ramified 250-volt d-c system of a present-day steel mill would then lend itself to rather accurate analysis."
"The flow of electromagnetic energy is traced in a typical, somewhat idealized, d-c generator, using an adaptation of Poynting's vector, after a discussion justifying this procedure. Quantitative analysis of the flow within the conductors and in the gap is carried out following the specification of the electromagnetic fields. Qualitative analysis of the flow in intermediate regions and to machine output leads is presented. Extension to other types of machines and to less idealized situations is discussed."
"This paper presents a mathematical technique useful in the solution of certain nonlinear electrical and mechanical problems of practical importance. The mathematical procedure involves the formulation of the problem in terms of nonlinear integral equations, and, by its use, practical results may be obtained in many cases where the approximate solution of the integral equation may be effected by the assistance of the Laplace transform theory. No attempt is made to present a general theory, but instead the general method is illustrated by applying it to the solution of typical problems of technical importance such as the analysis of electric circuits with nonlinear resistance, nonlinear inductance, nonlinear capacitance, and to the steady-state solution of van der Pol's equation."
"The first-order performance of oscillators satisfying Groszkowski's criterion of separability of linear and nonlinear elements can be predicted in the first order with a knowledge only of the Nyquist diagram of the linear portion of the circuit, the amplitude characteristic of the nonlinear portion, and the loop gain. The best form of nonlinear characteristic from the standpoint of frequency stability is one in which the odd-power terms are dominant."
"Circuits are described which yield an output voltage proportional to the product or quotient of any number of input voltages. The components used are magnetic cores of grain-oriented nickel alloys, half-wave rectifiers, and linear resistors. Experimental results and some design considerations are given. Circuits of the same kind are also suggested for performing indefinite integration and other analytical operations upon signal voltages which are functions of time."
"The transient analyzer described is a simple and reliable electronic device which operates by generating a number of pulses exactly equal to the number of cycles required for the output current or voltage of a magnetic amplifier to change from its initial value to a predetermined value. The response time in cycles is obtained directly by recording the output of the analyzer with an electronic counter or conventional recording device."
"This report is intended as a guide on the design, application, and operation of water cooling systems for mercury-arc rectifiers. Its contents are based on the accumulated experience acquired by rectifier manufacturers and users over many years. The report deals with the various engineering and operating aspects of rectifier cooling systems. Several types of water cooling systems are described, and their application is discussed. The various factors influencing corrosion are reviewed. The characteristics of cooling waters are discussed and recommendations are given on the chemical treatment of coolants, the application of antifreeze solutions, and the maintenance requirements of cooling systems. The results of a survey on the operation and maintenance of cooling systems in representative rectifier installations are also included."
"Novel methods are used to obtain crystal stability and still permit continuous coverage of the frequency range. The type o-146/FRT-3 Frequency Generator-Monitor described is part of the United States Navy's new model AN/FRT-3 super-power very-low-frequency transmitter."
"THE BUSINESS of the Bell System is primarily to provide communication services. However, as in any industry, a number of very useful side lines have developed, one of which is in the voice-reproduction field. With the vast growth of the telephone system and the increasing complexity of its networks of lines and switching systems, numerous instances have arisen wherein the general service could be improved or additional services given to telephone users by employing voice-reproduction devices. Some announcement systems, such as the Weather Forecast bureau, provide invaluable service to business men and holiday pleasure-seekers alike. Other systems, such as the use of a machine to quote the delay time for setting up long-distance calls in busy holiday seasons, relieve operators of a tiring task and increase efficiency within the telephone system. The process of providing these added services has, in turn, led to extensive development effort in the recording field by the Bell Telephone Laboratories and an appreciable investment has been made in announcement devices and the associated control equipment."
"IN CLINICAL practice, it is frequently desirable to produce heat in the muscular tissue which lies below subcutaneous layers of fat. Until recently short-wave diathermy provided the most satisfactory answer to the general problem of deep heating. However, biophysical research1 has shown that, when electric currents pass through alternate layers of fat and muscle, the fatty tissue is selectively heated. Although the ratio of heat developed in fat to that in muscle becomes smaller as the frequency increases, even at the highest practical frequencies the ratio is still greater than unity. It was in part to overcome this difficulty that electromagnetic and ultrasonic radiation were introduced as forms of diathermy following the second World War. The heating of homogeneous tissues by radiant energy has previously been discussed.2 However, the important fat-muscle problem as it applies to the new forms of radiation diathermy has not, up to now, been given quantitative consideration."
"THE PROPER selection of selenium rectifier stacks for d-c power supplies in large scale industrial or military projects usually requires considerably more information than can be obtained from a manufacturer's catalog. The most important problem in applying selenium rectifiers arises in connection with the life requirements for the application. Test data indicate that the life expectancy of selenium rectifiers is affected by the different manufacturing techniques used by the suppliers. With the present art of manufacture, the life expectancy tends to decrease as the cell voltage rating is increased. In addition, the life is affected by the current density and the temperature at which the selenium cells are operated."
"This paper describes a 10-kilomegacycle power meter using a bead thermistor for a power detector and having full scale sensitivities from +6 decibels referred to 1 milliwatt (dbm) (4,000 microwatts) to ‾14 dbm (40 microwatts) selected in 2-decibel (db) steps. Absolute calibration from built-in d-c standards is provided."
"This paper presents results so far achieved by the writers in endeavoring to gain an understanding of the factors controlling a-c core losses in modern magnetic materials. Losses have been measured on a number of cores over a range of frequencies and at flux densities in the middle portions of the magnetization curves. Theoretical and empirical relations have been derived to connect the dynamic losses to the static losses and other determining factors."
"FROM TIME to time the AIEE sponsors papers of a tutorial nature designed to expound some phase of electrical engineering for the benefit of the general reader rather than for the specialist. This paper is of the tutorial type, treating some of the problems in electron tube voltmeter design and operation, without trying to be all inclusive. The term mid-frequency range is used to indicate that none of the effects which set the upper and lower frequency limits of the instruments are considered."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The formation of an Atomic Industrial Forum, the resignation of Dr. Astin as Director of the National Bureau of Standards, and the latest development in plans for a new Engineering Societies Building are items of current interest to the membership discussed by President Quarles in this report."
"Although the electrical industry recognizes the necessity for reasonable safety standards and regulations to minimize potential hazards to the public in the use of electric energy, care should be taken to avoid unnecessarily restrictive or loosely written regulations. Members of the Institute can help by advocating to local authorities the acceptance of nationally recognized codes and standards in local laws and ordinances which regulate installation and use of electric energy."
"A-C WHEATSTONE BRIDGES, which provide high accuracy for resistance determinations, have been described in the literature in the past. Little attention has been given to bridges which combine high absolute accuracy in reactance or capitance with accuracy in resistance. This is especially true for low frequencies, and is in part due to the difficulty to determine the reactance of conducting materials at low frequencies. Another reason is the unavailability of variable-resistance boxes whose distributed inductances and capacitances are sufficiently well known to eliminate their effect on the reactance to be measured."
"Radioisotopes in increasing quantities and varieties are available to the medical field where they are being used in radiation therapy, diagnosis, and research. To determine the movement of radioactive materials in the body, specialized equipment is necessary as well as newly devised techniques for its handling."
"THE METHOD CHOSEN for evaluation of insulation aging should be representative of operating conditions, applicable to a large range of materials, and readily interpretable in terms of expected life of apparatus. A dielectric strength criterion meets these requirements for dry-type insulating systems. In utilizing this criterion the initial strength of each insulation system is determined at the temperature being investigated. Duplicate samples of the insulating systems are then thermally aged at this temperature and periodic, 60-cycle, 1-minute dielectric strength tests are applied at a value of one-half of the initial hot-dielectric strength until failure occurs. Plotting the hours of thermal aging to reduce the dielectric strength to one-half of its initial value against the operating temperature for a range of temperatures gives the thermal aging characteristics for the insulating system."
"Every company's management plan must include a concrete program for the development of its employees. Any such plan for the progress of the engineering personnel, whether along the path of supervision and management or of technical achievement, should consider the development of the engineer's technical and organizational abilities, his professional society activities, and his relationship with society as a whole."
"THE PURPOSE OF THIS ARTICLE is to compare the effect, on the cost of new overhead, open-wire distribution systems, of using either 4.16 kv or 13.2 kv as alternative primary-feeder voltages for supplying load in the same area. The range of load densities considered is 125 to 16,000 kva per square mile. This load-density range is representative, therefore, of heavy-rural to heavy-urban loads."
"Certain changes in United States practice are proposed, while the practices in the United States and Canada are presented for the benefit of engineers of other countries."
"ELECTROHYDRAULIC SYSTEMS HAVE certain advantages over pure electromechanical systems which make them particularly suitable as an adjunct to electronic control for high-power-level actuation. Performance of a typical hydraulic servomechanism utilizing the Cornell Aeronautical Laboratories (CAL) transfer valve is illustrated in Figure 1."
"The general considerations affecting nuclear power plant control-system design are reviewed. Special emphasis is placed on the features of reactor control."
"STUDIES MADE ON THE flashover characteristics of two d-c machines revealed in part the mechanism of flashover as a result of short circuits. Experimental data obtained from oscillographic records and from high-speed motion pictures substantiated the concepts of arcing currents and flashing currents as follows: 1. Arcing current is related to commutation and produces ions over the surface of the commutator. 2. Flashing current is in the opposite direction to arcing current. 3. Flashing results from the ionized film of gas that envelopes the commutator and is initiated where the brush-to-commutator voltage is high enough to sustain an arc with the ionized gases present."
"The electret effect in high polymer plastics is described and compared to published data on the behavior of wax electrets. The results indicate the existence of large ionic polarizations giving rise to an essentially constant external electric field. Some engineering applications of electrets are discussed and limitations presented in terms of current knowledge of electret phenomena."
"THE RADIO AND electronics field has been facing the problem of accuracy of radio-frequency microvoltages since sensitivity of radio receivers came into prominence as a competitive index of performance."
"A REDUCTION OF THE VOLTAGE DIPS and light flicker caused by the starting of single-phase motors can be accomplished by decreasing the power component of the starting current or by shifting the starting power factor to a more leading value. Both of these adjustments are made in a new type of capacitor-start motor which causes voltage dips only half as great as are produced by the usual capacitor-start motor. The new motor is larger and employs a new starting circuit with the capacitor in series with the main winding during the starting period."
"In order to bolster the decreasing net profits of independent telephone companies on short-distance toll calls, automatic toll switching equipment with automatic ticketing has been developed. The ticketing system temporarily stores data on a magnetic tape from which the information is printed as a toll ticket."
"The reliability required for critical operations is discussed together with some of the design factors which affect this reliability. It is suggested that the automatic secondary selective system, as described here, offers the most economical and generally satisfactory service for critical process units in a petroleum refinery."
"AN EXTENSIVE INVESTIGATION was made covering (1) study of the surge characteristics of windings, (2) determination of the impulse breakdown of insulations, and (3) development of methods for demonstrating insulation levels."
"The various factors that should control the assignment of generation among power units of a power system are assembled and reviewed briefly here. Whether to use a unit and at what load can be determined satisfactorily only by co-ordinating availabilities and costs of other units, total system load, and interconnection schedules, together with electrical limitations such as spinning reserve, service continuity, voltage regulation, and transmission losses."
"The air-turbine motor is a highly significant and necessary advancement in methods of accessory drive. As it is in the developmental stage, there are many problems involved in its use and they probably will increase in number. However, it provides an important means of decreasing aircraft weight and complexity."
"ANEW LINE OF AIR CIRCUIT breakers, having interrupting ratings of 50,000, 75,000, and 100,000 amperes, has been developed to meet the requirements of modern low-voltage electric systems."
"OPERATION OF A CENTRAL-STATION steam-generating unit requires continuous automatic control of water level, steam temperature (both high-pressure and reheated steam), and drafting equipment. Modern boiler designs have features which facilitate automatic control."
"The present status of the barium-oxide indirectly heated oxide cathode is reviewed from the viewpoint of the electronics engineer. Emphasis is placed on the role of the cathode alloy as well as some of the possibilities and shortcomings of this cathode in the commercial electron tube."
"SINCE WORLD WAR II, the increased use of direct current for ship propulsion, aircraft systems, and feedback control systems has refocused attention on the potentialities offered by d-c machines in many novel forms. However, the full possibilities of these machines can be realized only after consideration of a more general class of machines known as metadynes. This article presents an analysis of the transient performance of one fundamental type: the so-called S-generator or cross-connected metadyne."
"THE REVISION OF THE STANDARD describing “Short-Circuit Requirements” for synchronous rotating machines is of considerable interest to the relay engineer. The quantitative statement of current-time capability of the generator makes available a basis for coordination of system and machine relaying on unbalanced faults. The permissible time duration of unbalanced faults is expressed as a variable based on if I22t being constant, where I2 is the negative-sequence component of generator armature current and t is the time in seconds."
"THORIATED-TUNGSTEN WIRE, developed nearly 40 years ago by the lamp industry, has found extensive application as an electron emitter in vacuum tubes over the last 30 years, first in receiving and small-power types and more recently in high-power industrial types such as the RCA-5770, RCA-5771, and RCA-5831. High-power types are considered as those having unmodulated class C plate voltage ratings of greater than 5,000 volts."
"A full week of technical sessions and social activities awaits those who plan to attend this year's Summer General Meeting, June 15–19. With one of the country's foremost seaside resorts, Atlantic City, N. J., as the site, members of the AIEE Philadelphia Section will act as hosts for this meeting which also commemorates the Section's 50th anniversary. Headquarters will be at the Chalfonte-Haddon Hall Hotels on the boardwalk."
"True to its traditional hospitality, the AIEE Southern District provided excellent fare — both technical and social — to the 457 members and guests who attended its meeting in the Seelbach Hotel, Louisville, Ky., April 22–24. A number of inspection trips were taken to near-by industries, power plants, and Station WHAS-TV. A total of 15 sessions were held during the 3 days. In conjunction with the District Meeting, the fourth annual Technical Conference on Appliances was held."
"The Golden Jubilee of the AIEE Boston Section was celebrated with a 3-day meeting at the Sheraton-Plaza Hotel starting on April 29 in the Hub City. Nearly 850 members and guests participated in the festivities and technical sessions. Concurrently with this North Eastern District Meeting was the Northern Textile Conference on May 1 at which the attendance was 70 members and guests."
"A number of authors who presented District papers at recent AIEE District meetings have announced their willingness to supply copies of these papers upon request. (District papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE Transactions.) A list of currently available papers follows. Readers desiring copies should write directly to the respective authors, at the addresses given."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of April 16 1953, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections, signed by a member, must be furnished and will be treated as confidential. Applications for admission or re-election to Institute membership, in the grade of Member, have been received from the following candidates, and any member objecting to election should so notify the Secretary before June 25, 1953, or August 25, 1953, if the applicant resides outside of the tJnited States, Canada, or Mexico."
"Two new television microwave equipments were announced recently by the Raytheon Manufacturing Company. These are the first of a series of microwave and other communications products which are planned to meet the expanding requirement for equipment of advanced and flexible design in the communication industry."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Details were released recently by the United States Air Force and the Sperry Gyroscope Company of the robot system used to control the Lockheed QF-80 pilotless drone aircraft participating in the nuclear tests now taking place at the Nevada Proving Grounds."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The equipment and procedures used for path testing for microwave radio routes are described and the methods of analyzing the results obtained in typical cases are given in some detail."
"Isaac Fern Kinnard, engineering manager at the General Electric Company, has been awarded the 1952 Lamme Medal “for his outstanding contributions in design and developments in instrumentation and measurements.” Mr. Kinnard is the 25th Lamme Medalist"
"ONE OF THE pleasures of life is to tell of outstanding engineering accomplishments; and as I describe the engineering achievements of Isaac Fern Kinnard, I will be talking about a friend whom I have known and have lived with in engineering association for 30 years."
"WHEN I READ Mr. Lee's glowing tribute, I cannot help wondering whether I really deserve the very complimentary statements he makes. It is with a great deal of pride and appreciation, however, that I accept this award. When I consider the achievements of those who have received the Lamme Medal in the past, I feel especially privileged to be included in that group so highly honored by the AIEE."
"An elementary magnetic amplifier is considered with and without control current flowing and its limitations are discussed; then a magnetic amplifier with external feedback is examined and the advantages pointed out; finally selfsaturating circuits are evaluated."
"A HIGH-VOLTAGE AIR-BREAK contactor must be able to interrupt the circuit to motor loads or static loads covering a wide current range. Considerable attention has been given to the ability of contactors to interrupt fault currents, but little has been published on the problem of obtaining satisfactory performance at low currents. The difficulty at low currents is one of getting acceptably short arcing time."
"The three principal aspects of the read-recording system used for the magnetic drum memory of the EDVAC are described in some detail. These are the general recording method, the component parts of the system, and the general over-all system of recording and reading back the information recorded."
"With the growth of electrical engineering and the introduction of options in engineering education, the electric power field lost much of its popularity with students to the more glamorous communications and electronics curricula. To compensate for this trend, the universities must establish a creative environment for study of energy conversion and utilization subjects."
"PREVIOUS STUDIES HAVE STRESSED the need for more accuracy in the calculation of transient currents than is provided by present methods. For the design of shipboard power systems, these methods are not sufficiently accurate and do not adequately reflect the influence of initial conditions of load, voltage, and speed on peak currents. There was also a disappointing lack of experimental verification of the important assumptions upon which the theoreticians were proceeding. Before developing a new approach or following a published calculation, it becomes evident that the limitations of any relations are determined by the validity and accuracy of the assumptions employed. It is concluded from this work that a more fundamental knowledge of the internal phenomena of rotating machinery is required before developing relations describing transient response of a d-c machine within design accuracy. Flux variations are fundamental to machine behavior in that they govern generated voltage, leakage fluxes, commutation, coefficients of induction, and eddy currents."
"IN AN APPLICATION where an induction motor is the driving unit, the electromagnetic force on the induction-motor rotor is a component of axial shaft thrust. The various factors which determine this force are discussed qualitatively and, with one exception, are evaluated in this article."
"An electric analogue mapper is described whose accuracy, although limited by resistive paper and dielectric nonuniformity, is excellent. The maximum error in line position should not exceed 1 per cent of the maximum map dimension while the average error should be considerably less."
"GROUND-FAULT NEUTRALIZERS have been applied principally in the range of medium transmission voltages. The effectiveness of ground-fault neutralizers on a system depends on the ratio of single line-to-ground faults in the total number of nonpersisting faults. This ratio is influenced by the transmission-line configuration, the line insulation employed, and the structure-footing resistance if structure downleads are used. Where this ratio has been high, ground-fault neutralizers have provided an excellent record in reducing line outages 80 to 90 per cent."
"This new relay provides 3-point control of the time curve and both powerful and simple adjustments to obtain any of various standard curves. It also achieves mechanical simplification by the elimination of gears and through other improvements."
"WHEN FAULT CURRENT FLOWS in a fuse element, the temperature distribution along the fuse wire, at the instant of melting, depends upon the fault magnitude and on the dimensions of the fuse cartridge. If the current is low, and near to minimum fusing current, and the cartridge dimensions are normal, or, if the current is high and the cartridge is very short, the distribution will assume a parabolic form, and melting will occur at the center of the wire. If the current is high and the cartridge dimensions are normal, or, if the current is low and the cartridge is very long, the distribution will have a rectangular form, and most of the wire will melt at the same time. The melting depends on current density and wire parameter."
"THE PRINCIPAL SOURCES of system harmonics have been rotating machines and transformers. More recently, the widespread application of apparatus taking nonsinusoidal current, particularly mercury-arc rectifiers, has introduced other sources of system harmonics. These harmonics often require consideration when rectifiers and capacitors are connected to the same system."
"A study of the fundamental properties of the d-c arc was undertaken starting with very low currents of 1 ampere or less and gradually increasing the current. Simultaneous observations of the variations in voltage, current, light, and sound produced by the arc were correlated with those controllable parameters in an attempt to understand better the basic processes involved."
"TWELVE-PHASE rectification obtained by connecting two double-way rectifiers in series on the d-c side is often employed in special applications requiring high direct voltages. The customary practice is to supply the rectifiers from two 3-phase transformer banks in parallel on the a-c side, one bank connected Y-delta, the other delta-delta. Operation of such rectifiers is affected to a greater extent by common a-c reactance than is operation of 6-phase rectifiers."
"SPACE OCCUPIED BY INSULATION profoundly affects the over-all transformer size and weight, and the cost. The insulation itself is expensive, takes space, and interferes with other functions, as for instance, removal of heat from core and coils, and increases reactance. More important, however, is the fact that additional amounts of copper and iron are required in a transformer because of the space taken up by insulation. For these reasons, in large high-voltage power transformers large dividends, in size, weight, and cost reductions, and in the improvement of some operating characteristics, are obtained by designing the insulation more precisely as to location and amount."
"A detailed description of this new simple pneumoplethysmograph utilizing an electronic transducer is presented. It is valuable in clinical work as it can record systolic blood pressure at various points on the extremities, volume pulsations of the toe or finger, relative blood flow, potential blood flow, peripheral resistance, vasomotor activity, and other vascular phenomena."
"THIS ARTICLE presents some of the anomalies in the dielectric breakdown of sulphur hexafluoride as functions of pressure and electrode separation in a nonuniform field. At atmospheric pressure, this gas has unexpectedly high 60-cycle breakdown voltage for large gaps. At larger spacings, the spark-over voltage may increase more than proportional to the spacing, rather than levelling off as is more usual. This results in an inflection in the curve of breakdown voltage versus spacing, Figure 2. In this case, corona precedes spark-over."
"AN ANALYSIS OF single-phase directional relay behavior has been made in an article entitled “A Study of Directional Element Connections for Phase Relays.”1 The scope of that article is extended here to an investigation of the 3-phase directional relay."
"EXTENSION OF SOME of the techniques of sinusoidal analysis familiar in linear-system theory to systems containing nonlinear elements provides much useful information concerning their design and performance. Most important is the ability to predict possible periodic behavior, both stable and unstable, of the unexcited systems. This ability allows nonlinearities to be accounted for in system synthesis so that the usually undesirable behavior implied by the periodic solutions can be prevented or at least controlled. Either linear or nonlinear correcting devices can be employed effectively for this purpose. Steady-state responses to external sinusoidal excitation, including the hysteretic frequency responses common in nonlinear systems, are determined readily when the response is of excitation frequency. The method is helpful also in obtaining a qualitative understanding of simple transient behavior."
"With the increasing importance of reducing the response time of inductive loads, the power capabilities of modern high-current gas thyratron tubes become very significant. As amplifiers these tubes introduce no appreciable additional time constant into the system. Several methods for energizing loads such as fields of large motor generators, solenoids, magnetic clutches, and electromagnets are discussed including the half-wave circuit with an optimum value of capacitance in parallel with the load. This method provides the fastest response for the equipment required."
"CORONA OFTEN BECOMES the limiting factor in determining satisfactory voltage stress levels in capacitors where high operating stresses are desirable, and obtainable through the use of high-quality insulation. Recognition of this factor has resulted in extensive investigations1 of the effects on corona of many design and operating variables, and subsequent analysis of test results has revealed certain concepts which explain much of the behavior of corona in thin dielectrics."
"SINCE THERMAL DETERIORATION, commonly called aging, is recognized generally as the predominant factor in determining life expectancy of oil-immersed insulation structures, its effect on samples of various materials has been the subject of extensive research.1, 2 In using these experimental data to determine the effect of loading on apparatus life, it is convenient to define the “aging factor” at a given temperature as the ratio of the corresponding rate of deterioration to the rate at some reference temperature, as in Figure 1. For a varying temperature cycle, the integral of a plot of the corresponding aging factors, as in Figure 2, gives the “equivalent aging time,” or the time required, at the reference temperature, to produce the same aging. The cumulative effect of several cycles may be obtained by adding the equivalent aging times at a common reference temperature."
"THE COMPRESSED-AIR circuit breaker for arc-furnace switching has become a firm component of the compressed-air circuit breaker line. Since 1947 when compressed-air arc-furnace breakers were introduced, 30 have been installed and several since then have been operated nearly 100,000 times each. Developments and redesign of the powerhouse breakers gained from the past 14 years of service have been combined with the experience obtained on the arc-furnace breakers to date and a new design of compressed-air arc-furnace breaker has resulted."
"THE PROTON LINEAR ACCELERATOR installation at the University of Minnesota requires as one of its power supplies a d-c source capable of delivering continuously 4 amperes at 110 kv. This power represents the plate supply for four resnatron tubes which provide the radio-frequency power to excite the resonant cavities of the accelerator proper. The design of a power supply capable of meeting these requirements was complicated by the limited amount of available space."
"When a crane is carrying radioactive, thermally hot, or other hazardous materials, it is dangerous for riggers to prevent the load from swaying. Servomechanism feedback techniques have been applied to the carriage drive to stop the swinging and to the hoist drive to obtain variablespeed hoisting."
"THE PAST SEVERAL YEARS have witnessed a rapid increase in the use of diesel-electric locomotives. In the course of day-to-day operation, the electrical drive of these locomotives is subject to frequent and severe transient load surges. This type of operation — particularly in a locomotive environment conducive to the accumulation of dirt, dust, oil, and moisture — results in commutator flashing to a degree not encountered in usual d-c machine applications."
"INSULATING MATERIALS currently are classified into classes O, A, B, C, and H (AIEE Standard Number 1). Although this classification may be adequate as a rough indication of the nature of a material, it does not appear to be adequate for establishing standard operating temperature limits either for materials, or, particularly, for a complete apparatus. The inherent difficulties in establishing these limits are 1. The organic resins, which are used as a bonding agent in composite insulation, have a wide range of thermal stability. 2. The nature of the inorganic component (whether split mica or glass fiber) in composite insulation largely determines the aging properties of insulation, used as a dielectric barrier. 3. The function of the composite organic-inorganic material in the complete apparatus influences its life, whether a dielectric barrier, or just a spacer. 4. The mechanical arrangement of insulation influences its life, confined and supported, self-supporting, or acting as a mechanical support."
"The regular meeting of the AIEE Board of Directors was held in the Seelbach Hotel, Louisville, Ky., on April 23, 1953."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"All of the approved papers presented at General and District meetings are available to members in a series of three bimonthly publications. Technical papers sponsored annually by over 40 different Institute committees have been conveniently grouped in these publications: Communication and Electronics; Applications and Industry; and Power Apparatus and Systems. Most papers appear within 2 to 5 months after presentation. Any discussions are correlated with the papers and immediately follow the texts. The months of issue and the subject matter which appears in the bimonthlies are listed here."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of May 21, 1953, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade o membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections, signed by a member, must be furnished and will be treated as confidential. Applications for admission or re-election to Institute membership, in the grades of Fellow and Member, have been received from the following candidates, and any member objecting to election should so notify the Secretary before July 25, 1953, or September 25, 1953, if the applicant resides outside of the United States, Canada, or Mexico."
"A unique and timesaving system for selling rail tickets and making train reservations has been inaugurated in Pennsylvania Station, Pittsburgh, Pa., by the Pennsylvania Railroad. Designed to cut drastically the average time required to make a reservation and purchase a ticket on trains out of Pittsburgh, the system is centered in a new type of Ticket Sales and Service Bureau."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"At the close of the 1952–53 administrative year, Mr. Quarles takes a look at the Institute's record during his term as president. During this time, the AIEE embarked upon a new organizational policy and also instituted a new publication plan for the technical papers."
"It is not often that historical records show the name of a man credited with two basic discoveries. When a man has made three, then his attitude toward problems and how he solved them merit study. Major Armstrong makes such an analysis of Guglielmo Marconi's three great discoveries in the field of radio transmission and reception."
"SERVOMECHANISM DESIGN and test procedures which are based upon the assumption of system linearity are not satisfactory for many servos. This problem has been summarized in a recent article in this magazine.1 A method for representing the open-loop frequency response of nonlinear systems will be considered which indicates the presence of most nonlinear phenomena of closed-loop systems."
"On December 20, 1951, 100 kw was generated in an AEC nuclear power plant at Arco, Idaho, using the heat of an experimental breeder reactor and on February 24, 1953, at Oak Ridge, Tenn., 150 kw was developed in the Government's homogeneous reactor experiment. These two practical demonstrations showed the technical feasibility of producing electricity in a nuclear power plant."
"The radio-frequency oscillations found to be generated by the carbon arc were studied together with the hissing arc and a possible explanation of the latter is presented"
"ALTHOUGH FEEDBACK CONTROL design requirements usually specify the output time response to some standard form of input, the design process commonly is performed on a frequency response basis. The existing wealth of knowledge and experience in steady-state a-c circuit theory and in feedback amplifier performance justifies this design procedure. Under these conditions the need to transform from the frequency to the time domain is great. Exact mathematical methods of performing the desired transformation for linear systems exist but unfortunately do not lead to closed form results except in very special cases. Since even completely random inputs may be considered as composed of successions of impulses, knowledge of impulse response leads easily to the response for any specified input."
"STREAMLINED AUTOMOBILE designs require deep drawing of component body parts in modern presses where flywheel, clutch, and simple crank action are replaced with toggle action and direct-connected drive motors."
"CONVENTIONAL METHODS OF calculating rectifier voltage regulation are valid only if the angle of overlap is less than 360 degrees divided by the number of phases. With larger overlap angles, any a-c reactance common to two or more simple rectifiers introduces an angle of inherent delay, even though the rectifiers are operated without phase control. This inherent delay reduces the direct voltage and, therefore, increases the voltage regulation."
"A brief survey is presented to provide orientation in the abundant magnetic amplifier literature. Although lacunae still exist between the results of analyses and the requirements of designers with exacting performance specifications, extensive research is being continued as seen by the most recent literature."
"THE REQUIREMENTS of Underwriters' Laboratories, Inc., for the protection of motors in domestic appliances are based primarily on the rules for protection of motors as given in the National Electrical Code. The requirements of the National Electrical Code, however, must be a type that can be administered by inspection authorities in the field, and therefore do not contemplate the evaluation of a specific motor application to the same degree that can be accomplished readily in a testing laboratory."
"MANY FEEDBACK CONTROLS and other physical systems are designed on the basis of linear theory, that is, linear differential equations with constant coefficients. A. Leonhard1–3 and A. Vazsonyi4 have given graphical methods for determining whether all roots of the characteristic equation are located within certain sectors of the complex plane. Vazsonyi's method determines whether all dimensionless damping ratios ζ of any linear system are greater than any prescribed value. Each pair of complex conjugate roots of the characteristic equation of a linear system has its own value of ζ."
"THE ADDITION OF a third terminal or a transformer bank to a 2-terminal line section has economic advantages, but presents problems when using phase comparison carrier relaying on such a line. In this type of relaying, the phase angles of the currents at the line terminals are compared over a carrier channel. The 3-phase line currents feed a sequence network, the output of which energizes two fault detectors, FD-1 and FD-2, and an electronic circuit to control the transmission of carrier. Operation of the low-set fault detector FD-1 starts the transmission of a carrier blocking signal during a fault. The highset fault detector FD-2 supervises tripping and generally is set to operate at a current value 125 per cent of the FD-1 setting on a 2-terminal line. This assures correct relay operation for remote external faults with current magnitudes near the pickup values of the relay."
"This new power system features high reliability, over-all simplicity, low initial as well as low maintenance costs, small size, light weight, and extreme speed range and versatility."
"IN ORDER TO obtain a relative evaluation of electrical insulation materials for use in motors, it is necessary that these materials be combined into insulation systems and aged until failure. The aging conditions should be equivalent to those expected in the field except that the temperature may be elevated and the humidification intensified to accelerate the aging."
"The AIEE Pacific General Meeting will be held in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, September 1–4, 1953. Vancouver is situated on the shores of the Pacific with a spectacular backdrop of mountains rising 5,000 feet from the ocean. The Vancouver Hotel has been chosen for the meeting headquarters and all technical sessions and social functions will be held in this hotel jointly operated by the Canadian National and Canadian Pacific Railways."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The AIEE Summer General Meeting at the Chalfonte-Haddon Hall in Atlantic City, N. J., celebrated the 50th anniversary of the AIEE Philadelphia Section and the 2,372 members and guests established a new attendance record for this annual meeting. There were 55 technical sessions and the number of papers were arranged so that sufficient time was available after almost all the sessions for the members to enjoy the daytime activities of the seaside resort."
"The chairmen of important Institute general committees and the Section delegates freely exchanged new ideas on operational procedures in an all-day conference held in Atlantic City on June 16. In the morning session with Director A. C. Muir presiding, the work of the Committees on Registration of Engineers, Membership, Transfers, Board of Examiners, and Student Branches was outlined by the respective chairmen. In the afternoon session with C. S. Purnell, chairman of the Sections Committee, presiding, the topics of changes in Section organization, Institute affairs, Section organization and management were discussed and a general discussion by the delegates took place. The conference was opened by Mr. Purnell who extended a warm welcome to the delegates and advised that this was their meeting with an opportunity to ask questions and exchange ideas of profitable and interesting experiences."
"Covering subject matter ranging through the entire gamut of Institute activities, a total of 55 technical sessions and conferences were held during the 5 days of the Summer General Meeting."
"Editor's Note: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y."
"Applications for admission or re-election to Institute membership, in the grades of Fellow and Member, have been received from the following candidates, and any member objecting to election should supply a signed statement to the Secretary before August 25, 1953, or October 25, 1953, if the applicant resides outside of the United States, Canada, or Mexico. [5 to grade of Member]."
"THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers presents to the membership its 69th annual report, covering the fiscal year ending April 30, 1953. It contains a brief summary of the principal activities of the Institute during the year, a general balance sheet showing the financial condition of the Institute at the close of the fiscal year, a statement of cash receipts and disbursements, and a schedule of securities owned. Much additional information regarding the activities appeared in various issues of Electrical Engineering."
"The tornado that roared through Worcester, Mass., and vicinity recently, leaving a path of death and destruction behind, was detected in its formative stages approximately 45 miles outside of Worcester, and the storm was tracked on its devastating course by a radar device built by Raytheon Manufacturing Company of Waltham, Mass."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"General Electric News. The General Electric Air Conditioning Division recently announced that part of its home heating and cooling department would be transferred from Bloomfield to Trenton, N. J., in a move to expand production facilities and meet increasing demand for home air conditioning. F. J. Poppelen, general manager of the Air Conditioning Division, said that the move to Trenton will allow the Division to utilize facilities vacated by the home heating and cooling department for expansion of production of packaged air-conditioning units and water coolers for commercial and industrial use, and the new General Electric packaged heat pump."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"If we are to keep up with the steadily increasing demand for technical personnel, we will be forced to develop greater productivity per person in the future. Not only can we provide better training for those engineers who go into management and sales, but we can use the engineer's talents to best advantage by utilizing the services of technicians and liberal arts graduates where possible."
"The current thinking concerning the peculiar advantages of this method as compared to other methods of heating, and the variations of equipment in use within the infrared process itself are presented."
"ARC IMMOBILITY and arc reversal phenomena limit the use, affect the design, and dictate the test procedure required for aircraft circuit interrupting equipment using magnetic arc suppression. Laws of physics which earth-bound electrical designers use unquestioningly are found to require re-examination when applied to magnetic arc interruption equipment for use at altitude. It had been assumed for more than half a century that an electric arc, like any other conductor free to move in a magnetic field, would move in a direction determined by Ampere's Law. This assumption is valid, for all practical purposes, for circuit breaking equipment operating at sea level. However, as the altitude is increased, an electric arc in a magnetic field may falter, stop, and finally reverse its direction of motion."
"Fire hazards in textile factories are scrutinized and suggestions are presented to improve the electric equipment and therefore achieve safer and more trouble-free installations."
"THIS ANALYSIS APPLIES to magnetic-amplifier circuits of the center-tap, bridge-type, or a-c variety. Such circuits are called amplistats, Magamps, transductors, self-saturated magnetic amplifiers, and so forth. Figure 1 shows the circuit diagram of the center-tap connection. The amplifiers under discussion are of the so-called low control-circuit impedance type. In order to reduce the complexity of the analysis, many simplifying assumptions are made. While these assumptions introduce inaccuracies in the equations, the latter still serve effectively in establishing first-order relations among the variables. A large part of the analysis is applicable to core materials whose dynamic B-H loop is not strictly rectangular, such as grain-oriented silicon steel."
"Three typical branch circuits and their protective devices are examined. These are the general-purpose lighting and appliance branch circuits, the special branch circuits supplying a single fixed appliance, and motor branch circuits."
"THE BELL SYSTEM's new N1 carrier system is a low-level cable carrier system providing 12 4-wire telephone channels in the frequency range of 44 to 260 kc. Because of its low levels, the N1 system is particularly susceptible to interference from other existing carrier systems with over lapping frequencies and higher energy levels."
"KNOWLEDGE OF THE NATURAL frequencies of air-core and iron-core coils and of transformer and generator windings is of essential theoretical and practical importance. The transient response of coils and windings subjected to impulse waves has been determined in the literature by two different methods, the “standing wave” and the “traveling wave” approach. The values of the natural frequencies enter into the analytical expressions of both these methods of calculation."
"The development work on which this article is based was sponsored by the Bureau of Ships, United States Navy Department. This system adjusts a control element to produce a maximum or minimum value of a resulting parameter. The control element is scanned through its entire range of adjustment and returned to the position resulting in the desired maximum or minimum effect. In a system where maxima or minima are present, the tuning equipment reliably selects the largest. The apparatus required is simple and easily understood, and can be maintained by relatively unskilled personnel."
"A THOROUGHGOING RATIONAL method of calculating the braking torque to be expected from squirrel-cage motors when direct current is applied to the stator has been an elusive development. The question is not one of widespread importance but, in some control applications, a sure knowledge of the speed-torque relationship might be critically important."
"IN ONE SYSTEM of customer toll dialing,1 the call record is a punched tape as shown in Figure 1. A simple recorder containing punch and step magnets driven directly by dial impulses produces the tape record. Transcribing information from the tape by eye would be slow and cumbersome; hence an automatic “reader” is needed to translate the information to a more convenient form."
"To eliminate interference in telephotograph transmission through broad-band carrier equipment, it was decided to cancel it from the signal delivered by the carrier facility instead of modifying the carrier equipment. Consequently, a recently developed telephotograph level compensator, consisting of a pilot channel arrangement designed for insertion in the telephotograph connecting circuits, is utilized."
"The most commonly used magnetic amplifier circuits and their applications are reviewed in their general form. The information is presented in the order of invention or use and thus follows quite closely the chronological sequence."
"THE SYSTEM DESCRIBED gives a polar plot of the transfer functions of industrial processes, process controllers, and instrument servomechanisms. Included in the system is an accurate mechanical signal generator which produces pneumatic, electric, and motion sine waves having a frequency range of 1/30 to 720 cycles per minute. A data sampling technique is employed which by-passes the need for having recorders with a dynamic response considerably better than the system under test. Furthermore, the Nyquist plot is recorded directly on a single sheet of paper thus simplifying the data reduction, handling, and storage problem. As the transfer function may be studied while the test is in progress, the operator is assured that he will not miss any significant points of the plot."
"THE MOST SIGNIFICANT characteristic for core materials to be used in communication transformers is the initial permeability, which should be as high as possible and exhibit a minimum change versus the exciting field strength. These requirements are dictated by the necessity to keep signal attenuation and distortion in these transformers to a minimum, and by the characteristic behavior of magnetic materials at extremely low flux or field strength levels."
"RECENT UNPRECEDENTED load growth has stimulated parallel operation to such an extent that there are now only six major interconnections in the United States. The operation of these vast grids has brought two major problems into sharp focus: 1. Permissible scheduled loading on critical arterial tie lines is being reduced by the use of increasingly large cyclic swings. 2. Appreciable savings are being lost by the inability of operating personnel to maintain the loading on an increasing number of stations and units in accordance with incremental costs."
"The various types of nuclear reactors which can be used with the advantages and disadvantages of each, the abundance of nuclear versus fossil fuels, and the cost of nuclear power are discussed."
"This plant is the first hydroelectric installation in the upper midwest area subject to a temperature range of +105 to −30 degrees Fahrenheit. Built into the masonry substructure of a retired 10-unit plant, economics, climate, and the site dictated the incorporation of design features and innovations to assure all-weather operation."
"TODAY ELECTRONICS IS forging a silent evolution in all fields of industry; and the modern tendency in power generating stations is to have the control gear operating electronically whenever possible."
"LOW-LEVEL electronic or electrical measurements are particularly susceptible to errors introduced by external electromagnetic influences. In a laboratory, isolation from such interference usually is achieved by enclosing an area completely in copper or bronze screening. Certain instrumentation, however, requires a higher degree of isolation than can be achieved usually in screened enclosures. Copper sheet has been used ordinarily to construct enclosures to meet these requirements."
"The theme of the technical program of the Middle Eastern District Meeting to be held in Charleston, W. Va., September 29–October 1, 1953, will center on electrical aspects of the region's coal, chemical, and power industries, as this city is in a highly industrialized area. Headquarters of the meeting will be the Daniel Boone Hotel."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The AIEE Aircraft Electric Equipment Conference will be held in Seattle, Wash., September 30 to October 2 at the Benjamin Franklin Hotel. Eight technical sessions are scheduled and three inspection trips are planned so that members who go on them will not miss any of the sessions."
"A regular meeting of the AIEE Board of Directors was held in the Chalfonte-Haddon Hall, Atlantic City, N. J., on June 18, 1953."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of July 16, 1953, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections, signed by a member, must be furnished and will be treated as confidential. Applications for admission or re-election to Institute membership, in the grades of Fellow and Member, have been received from the following candidates, and any member objecting to election should supply a signed statement to the Secretary before September 25, 1953, or November 25, 1953, if the applicant resides outside of the United States, Canada, or Mexico."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"An exploration of how electronics can be put to work to reduce highway disasters and to relieve drivers of tiresome tasks on modern superhighways has been initiated by Dr. V. K. Zworykin (F '45), Radio Corporation of America (RCA)."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The coal, steel, and electrical utility industries could make or save many millions of dollars as a result of a 2-year research project just completed by 14 electrical utility companies and Bituminous Goal Research, Inc., the national research agency of the bituminous coal industry."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlet — may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"One of the problems raised by electromechanical developments in recent years is the impact of new machines and devices upon human behavior, the field with which the psychologist is primarily concerned. Although this situation is only the most recent chapter in a series of events occurring since man began using and then inventing tools, the rapid acceleration in the process has intensified the problem tremendously."
"For a number of years, various judicial interpretations of the patent laws have been the subject of much controversy in the patent field. With the first of the year, new statutes went into effect which should do much to clarify the situation."
"The general way in which electronic phenomena are applied to the problems of human ills is reviewed and the activities of the United States Atomic Energy Commission's Division of Biology and Medicine are outlined. In addition, certain lines of development in the immediate future, which anticipated requirements make desirable, are indicated."
"FOR RADIO-FREQUENCY transmission lines the Smith chart is often employed in making impedance calculations. In some cases the standing-wave ratio is very high and the resistance cannot be read accurately on the chart. Means are shown herein for computing the resistance, while the chart is used for reactance."
"Electrets are discussed from the viewpoint of their measurement, materials from which they can be made, theories concerning their formation, and practical applications."
"THE USE OF supervisory control by power companies for the operation of remote stations has increased greatly during the past 10 years. Power-line carrier current is being used on large power systems to make possible the control of widely separated stations from a common point. This type of channel has made possible the control of stations at distances as great as 200 miles."
"Properly designed synchronizing systems are capable of maintaining synchronism to very high orders of accuracy even in the presence of what appear to be very high noise levels. By re-examining conventional synchronizing systems in the light of frequency-modulation communication theory, it is shown how this is achieved. The synchronizing system is also discussed as a servomechanism."
"THE GROUND RELAY as used on a diesel-electric locomotive provides a number of important protective features. It was originally applied to furnish flashover protection, but has become useful in connection with other functions so that it now provides protection on a diesel-electric locomotive for: 1. Armature grounds in either the main generator or traction motors. 2. Accidental power circuit grounds. 3. High-resistance creepage grounds, such as those caused by moisture and dirt. 4. Flashover protection for the generator, motors, and contactors. 5. Ground protection during dynamic braking. 6. Ground protection during engine starting."
"IN DESIGNING FOR optimum dimensions and shapes in oil circuit breakers and other oil-insulated equipment, it has been found advantageous to determine, by means of the electrolytic field analyzer, the distribution and magnitudes of the electrical stresses which exist as a result of the application of high voltage. To make use of this information, the designer must know with engineering accuracy the unit dielectric strength of the oil; that is, the maximum electrical stress that the oil will withstand anywhere in the gap without puncture. The best generally available data on this subject have consisted of a set of empirical curves published by F. W. Peek in 1915 for oil adjacent to spheres and cylinders of different radii. The fundamental reason that oil would withstand much higher unit electrical stress when adjacent to some shapes than to others has not been understood. As a consequence, when faced with a practical shape which was neither a precise sphere nor a precise cylinder, one has not known what value of dielectric strength to use, within a range of two or three to one."
"IN ORDER TO account for losses in interconnected system operation, an accurate method has been devised to determine readily system transmission losses for all normal variations which might be encountered in the parallel or looped operation of several interconnected companies."
"A current surge conducted along the antenna lead-in frequently damages radio equipment and sometimes causes fires. Therefore a unit was developed which protects the radio equipment and also records the by-passed current and charge magnitudes. The data obtained with these units are presented here."
"A MEANS OF measuring the copper temperature of a high-voltage generator conductor is described. A temperature potentiometer measures the temperature drop through the insulation. The temperature drop through the insulation added to the temperature of the outer surface of the insulation is the temperature of the copper."
"The requirements of the electric drive for this high-speed surface-broaching machine are analyzed in detail. This machine is capable of developing a peak of 600 horsepower and can remove rapidly a large amount of metal from a securely held rough forging or casting to an accurate surface finish in one pass of successive broaching tools. It can produce over 150 pieces per hour at cutting speeds exceeding 200 feet per minute."
"IN 1947 THE Hydro-Electric Power Commission of Ontario instigated a survey at its Burlington and Leaside 115/230-kv transformer stations to determine the effectiveness of the lightning protection provided by overhead ground wires, used to protect the stations from direct lightning strokes, and by co-ordinating gaps, used in place of the more conventional lightning arresters to protect the power transformers from severe overvoltages."
"THE 400-CYCLE 120/208-volt a-c electric system presently in use on operating aircraft uses both reactive and real power equalizers to assure equal division of load among the paralleled alternators. Use of analytical methods to predict conditions is desirable."
"Tests were made to determine to what extent gross mistreatment of sealed dry-type transformers with Class H insulation might involve fire or explosion hazards. Tests on sealed transformers containing no organic material other than a small quantity of semiorganic silicone varnish indicated they may be operated with almost no danger of fire or explosion."
"DURING THE PAST quarter century the introduction of mechanical mining has revolutionized the coal industry. As the revolution progressed, a bottleneck developed in the operation behind the loading machine. Transportation schemes in use 20 years ago could not move the coal away from the loader fast enough. In 1935 the idea was conceived of using rubber-tired tractor-trailer units to maintain a steady flow of coal from the loader to the secondary track system. These units proved efficient for gathering the coal, but occupied too much space. About 1939 a single-unit self-propelled shuttle car, basically the type being used today, was developed."
"SPLIT-PHASE currents in multicircuit generator windings exist only because of necessary manufacturing tolerances or because of winding faults. This article attempts to set forth something of the nature of these split-phase currents and discusses the type of current transformers and relays which can be used to afford generator winding protection."
"MANY AUTHORS OF textbooks on electronics begin their discussion of feedback amplifiers with the now-classic block diagram, from which they derive the general gain equation, $A^{\\prime}={A \\over 1-A \\beta}\\eqno{\\hbox{(1)}}$ where A is the gain without feedback and β is the feedback fraction. In dealing with specific circuits, however, it is a common practice to write and solve the circuit equations. This article shows that amplifiers and oscillators can be analyzed from start to finish by block diagram methods, first developed for feedback control systems1 and later applied to purely circuit problems.2"
"More complicated appliances, performing more functions automatically, connected to larger capacity circuits capable of delivering destructive power under fault conditions, increase markedly the need for electrical protection. Dual-element fuses are recommended to provide complete protection to motor-driven appliances. Appliances with little thermal capacity should be provided with extremely fast-blowing fuses where everything is done to decrease the time delay instead of attempting to build it into the fuse. However the manufacturers' time-current characteristics facilitate the selection of the proper fuse for a given appliance."
"THE VOLTAGE which must be induced in the secondary winding of a current transformer, in order to overcome the impedance of the circuit, gives rise to a corresponding magnetic flux in the core. It is the ampere turns needed to maintain the flux which constitute the error of the transformer."
"IT IS GENERALLY necessary to know the closed-loop poles of a feedback control system in order to determine completely its time response. Although the peak overshoot and rise time for a step input can be estimated readily from the closed-loop frequency response of the system, such low-frequency effects as tails in the step response, the settling time of the ramp response, and so on, can be determined best from the values of the closed-loop poles."
"THE EXPANDING facilities for the production of aluminum, coupled with its advantages of light weight and low cost, indicate strongly that aluminum will occupy a position of increasing importance in the electrical industry. To meet the high standards of performance being maintained with electrical joints in modern switch gear, a new process has been developed for the silver plating of aluminum. By replacing the aluminum surface in the contact area with a silver surface, the detrimental effects of the much discussed aluminum-oxide surface film can be eliminated. In this manner the admirable bulk characteristics of aluminum and the established excellence of silver surfaces as electric contacts can be combined in a reliable bus or connection bar."
"The materials used in tank-type oil circuit breakers, the predominate outdoor type, and the effects that low ambient temperatures have upon their performance are examined. Conclusions are presented indicating that low ambient temperatures require special consideration even with modern outdoor oil circuit breakers, but further study is still needed."
"The literature on sliding contacts is reviewed with emphasis placed on basic phenomena. The subject is covered under the headings of contact wear, contact configuration, contact resistance, generated noise, contact force, and contact surfaces. Each of these factors is evaluated in terms of its effect on sliding contacts. Recommendations for improving sliding contacts also are included."
"IT HAS BEEN the authors' observation that a lack of agreement exists regarding the definition of such terms as “potential difference,” “electromotance (electromotive force),” “voltage,” and the meanings of laws involving these terms. This article attempts to provide distinguishing definitions, suitable for near zone analysis, of three circuit variables considered essential to the proper analysis of electric circuits, namely, potential difference, electromotance, and “Ri product” to emphasize the importance of the − ∂A/∂t component of the electric field in describing transformer action; and to present two legitimate but different forms of Kirchhof's second law."
"After presenting several distinct advantages of presswelding in high-production applications, some equipment requirements and techniques applicable to multitransformer presswelding are discussed."
"THIS SYNCHRO magnetic amplifier was developed at the Naval Research Laboratory∗ as a demonstration of a system utilizing magnetic amplifiers of a type developed at the Laboratory. In this particular application the amplifiers perform the function of error sensing by delivering output power proportional to the difference between the stator terminal voltages of generator and motors. This is in one respect similar to operating a number of synchro motors from one large synchro generator; however, in other respects this similarity ends."
"THE Canadian National Railways and the Canadian Pacific Railway are the two principal railway systems in Canada, with over 40,000 miles of track from the Atlantic seaboard to the Pacific Coast, and comprising the two largest railway systems on the North American continent. Although there are other Class I railroads operating in Canada, this article will limit the discussion to the two roads which operate about 95 per cent of the total track mileage."
"Kansas City, Mo., was chosen for the AIEE Fall General Meeting during the week of November 2–6, 1953, because it is located centrally and is reached easily from all parts of North America. It will give AIEE members and their wives a chance to attend a national meeting and to participate in the affairs of the Institute. The AIEE Kansas City Section has plans for taking care of a large attendance and promises a social and entertainment program in conjunction with the excellent technical program. Headquarters for the meeting will be in the Hotel Muehlebach."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Papers presented at the AIEE Pacific General Meeting which was held in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, September 1–4, 1953, emphasized the unusual industrial growth and important developments taking place in the Northwest. A full program of 19 sessions, inspection trips, a dinnerdance and banquet, special events for the ladies, and a golf tournament took place, with headquarters at the Hotel Vancouver. The meeting was attended by more than 750 members and guests."
"A special 2-day conference on the application of motors to air-moving equipment and a 1-day symposium on induction motors is planned for Fort Wayne, Ind., October 6–8, 1953, at the Van Orman Hotel."
"The sixth annual AIEE Conference on Machine Tools, sponsored by the AIEE Subcommittee on Machine Tools, will be held at the Cleveland Hotel, Cleveland, Ohio, October 14–16, 1953. A large attendance is expected, composed primarily of electrical and mechanical engineers of the machine tool builders, electrical manufacturers, and users of machine tools such as the automotive and aircraft industries. The conference is an activity of the subcommittee to promote its purpose of “achieving greater productivity and safety of machine tools through electrification, for the purpose of raising the standard of living and aiding the common defense.”"
"Applications for admission or re-election to Institute membership, in the grades of Fellow and Member, have been received from the following candidates, and any member objecting to election should supply a signed statement to the Secretary before October 25, 1953, or December 25, 1953, if the applicant resides outside of the United States, Canada, or Mexico."
"The accompanying illustration is a monochromatic reproduction of the first color photograph ever taken of a jet plane being catapulted from an aircraft carrier at night. The U.S.S. Antietam was chosen because it is one of the largest carriers and the most modern carrier in the fleet. It is the only United States carrier with a canted deck permitting simultaneous launching and landing operations."
"A new and improved surveillance radar system in operation at Norfolk (Va.) Municipal Airport, gives the control tower the location and flight path of all aircraft flying within a 30- to 60-mile radius of the airport. It assists Civil Aeronautics Administration (GAA) controller in directing each plane via radio through a safe and efficient traffic pattern."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Successful experimental operation of a very-high-speed electronic memory device that promises to help solve scientific and economic problems too vast and too complex for the present capabilities of electronic computers was revealed recently by Dr. Jan A. Rajchman, a physicist of the Radio Corporation of America (RCA) Laboratories Division."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Westinghouse News. Westinghouse Electric Corporation has purchased the large government-owned plant in Lansdowne, Md., which the company has operated under lease since its construction in 1942. The plant is producing induction-heating equipment, microwave equipment, railroad radios, power-line carrier equipment, radio transmitters, and certain radar components."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"CERTAIN performance characteristics of magnetic recorders have decided effects on their design for various applications. There are four broad fields of application in which magnetic recorders are recognized: 1. Sound Recording, 2. Digital Data Recording, 3. Physical Analogue Data Recording, and 4. Video Recording."
"Automatic control equipments for the 5,000-horsepower gas turbine designed for natural-gas pipe-line pumping are described in terms of the main control equipment, mechanical, electrical, and hydraulic turbine control components, and the Cabinetrol panels for station and turbine auxiliaries."
"RESEARCH DEVOTED to developing rubber insulations resistant to micro-organisms has given two major results: 1. Compounds showing normal insulation resistance with no failures after 4 years in accelerated soil tests in which ordinary compounds fail in about 6 months; 2. Proof that the destructive organisms are fungi, and that these cause loss of insulation resistance and dielectric strength by growing through the insulation."
"Some circuit arrangements for d-c amplifiers are described. Several methods for the solution of the drift problem are recommended. Some of the related operating characteristics of an experimental 2-stage amplifier are included."
"A NEW LINE OF carrier equipment with increased flexibility now has been designed to give more functions in a given frequency spectrum under operating conditions encountered in the field. The new line of apparatus includes frequency shift equipment, relaying equipment, and communications equipment."
"IN QUALITY-CONTROL work, it is often necessary to determine the mean and the standard deviation of an important parameter, such as a dimension of the product. To accomplish this, a measurement system called an Evenness Integrator, Figure 1, has been developed for applications in which the material is tested while moving continuously. Since most of the necessary calculating functions are performed by two new integrating instruments, the equipment eliminates virtually all of the laborious data-taking and the computations ordinarily associated with the statistical analysis of a large number of discrete measurements."
"This analogue computer study was made of a 330-kv substation to learn whether a lightning arrester had to be applied to each transformer or whether one arrester would protect the pair of transformers supplied by each bay."
"THE BASIC self-saturating, bridge-connected magnetic amplifier is shown in Figure 1. There the voltages appearing in series with the control windings are labelled as ec, the control voltage, and eb, the other possible sources of voltage within the control circuit. eb arises most commonly from two sources; first, from the changes of voltage drop across control circuit resistance resulting from changes in the control current; and secondly, from voltage feedback connection with the output circuit."
"GROUND FAULT currents may be reduced substantially when fault resistance is included in the fault circuit. The majority of faults that occur on a power system involve ground and occur between conductor and tower. When a fault occurs to a steel tower or grounded wood pole on a grounded system the footing resistance is included automatically in the fault circuit and the resulting ground current may be materially less than that calculated neglecting the fault resistance."
"The applications of voice-recording equipment discussed in some detail can be divided into four general groups: Announcements made directly to and providing a service to subscribers, such as weather forecasts and the time of day. Announcements to assist subscribers in connection with telephone service, that is, intercept announcements when an individual calls a vacant or disconnected terminal, or emergency announcements if an unusual condition prevents normal service. Announcements to expedite service and assist operators in completing calls, including completion of calls from a dial to a nondial phone, and advising operators of the time delay for completing long distance calls. Specialized announcement or recording services, such as price quotation and ticket reservation."
"THE SCOPE of this article is limited to a qualitative description of the steady-state operating characteristics of those high-performance amplifier circuits which are classed as single-phase “self-saturated” types. Only resistive loads are considered."
"THE PROBLEM of matching the generation to the load is basic with the electrical industry. Since the very earliest days of a-c systems, the maintenance of a frequency equal to the nominal figure at which the system operates has provided the simplest indication of this balance. Until the late 1920's very little consideration was given to anything more than approximate accuracy of frequency, with the result that deviations from normal of as much as 1/2 cycle were not at all uncommon. Integrated time was of no consequence."
"Several radio systems have been developed for locating a ship's position on the earth's surface and for tracking it. The measurement of phase, as is done in the Raydist systems, offers accuracies which exceed those of other methods."
"WHILE 2,6-di-tertiary-butyl-para-cresol (DBPC) has been established as a suitable oxidation inhibitor for transformer oil, its use in oil for reclosers has not been evaluated. A number of persons have raised the questions of the effect of DBPC on rate of settling, particle size, and quantity of carbon formed by an arc, and the effect of an arc on the inhibitor itself. In the present investigation, the operation and stability of DBPC inhibited oil was studied to determine if the inhibited oil showed any undesirable characteristics which would make it unsuitable for use in oil circuit reclosers."
"Experimentation in an idealized soil showed a critical moisture content of approximately 4 percent by weight separated two distinctly different phenomena whereby heat is dissipated from buried heat sources. Above this moisture content relatively large quantities of heat per lineal foot are dissipated apparently by a circulation phenomenon. Below this content the soil rapidly dries out, materially decreasing the quantity of heat that can be dissipated. The latter may explain the so-called “runaway condition” observed with buried transmission cables."
"A convenient method of applying symbolic logic to Montgomerie's algebra is presented together with an introduction to a complex notation for circuits in which contacts are connected in parallel with relay coils."
"This discussion of miniature fuses traces the development of miniature fuses, compares various types of fuses, compares the specifications for miniature fuses and service circuit breakers, and offers some recommendations which it is felt will be of definite benefit to both the fuse industry and the appliance industry in general."
"THE MOST POWERFUL radio-telegraph transmitter ever built for the United States Navy is conservatively rated at 1,000 kw output over the 15- to 35-kc frequency range. Its use will ensure reliable communication with the United States Fleet even when high-frequency services are interrupted by magnetic disturbances."
"NOVEL METHODS are used to obtain crystal stability and still permit continuous coverage of the frequency range. The type 0–146/FRT-3 Frequency Generator-Monitor described is part of the Navy's new Model AN/FRT-3 super-power very-low-frequency transmitter."
"The scope of this article was to investigate the basic primary circuit electrical configurations for transmission and distribution substations. This study was made broad because, until voltage ratings have been assigned to the circuits in a substation diagram, it represents equally well the lowest to the highest voltage circuits."
"BECAUSE OF increasing interest in the use of aluminum in insulated cables, information has been needed concerning factors of importance in the design and application of fittings for terminating, tapping, and splicing insulated aluminum cables. Information also has been needed concerning the suitability of commercially available fittings for such conductors. Since 1948 many tests have been made of fittings on insulated aluminum cables of a wide range of sizes, in the Electrical Conductor Laboratory of Aluminum Company of America at Massena, N. Y."
"WIDELY USED industrially to determine chemical concentration, electrolytic conductivity is measured most satisfactorily by an a-c bridge and null-type instrument, thus avoiding electrode polarization and the need for voltage regulation.1"
"This new stack-mounted master control for oil burners is an important development in the field of domestic heating. The circuit and components of the stack control are discussed in some detail."
"TWO PRIME CONSIDERATIONS in any refinery electric system should be flexibility and dependability. These factors entered markedly into the selection and design of the distribution system which consists of a primary selective combined with a secondary selective system, see Figure 1. The common secondary tie is an aerial loop which is sectionalized by means of pole-mounted switches, normally open. The loop serves the twofold purpose of a secondary tie, when needed, as well as a wide-area distribution feeder covering several miles with numerous loads tapped off, somewhat on the order of a public utility system serving a populated area. The other secondary feeders out of the substations are underground cables direct to points of usage."
"WHEN A GENERATOR is subjected to unbalanced short-circuit currents, a negative-sequence current (I2) is caused to flow in the stator windings, establishing a counter rotating flux that induces double-frequency rotor currents. The rotor currents flow in the surface parts of the rotor and cause detrimental heating. The generator is susceptible to varying degrees of damage depending on the magnitude of the negative-sequence current."
"ACCORDING TO THE simple approximate theory for self-saturating magnetic amplifiers, a plot of output versus control current for these amplifiers has the shape of the left-hand portion of the hysteresis loop of the core material. Maximum amplification thus calls for the use of a core material having a rectangular hysteresis loop."
"ONE OF THE most serious problems that confronts a system operator is the effects of a dreaded ice storm. Angular displacement of the voltages applied to the extremities of a power line for the purpose of circulating sufficient current to heat the conductors will assist in solving this problem. When this displacement does not exceed 60 degrees, reasonable service for all customers supplied by the line ordinarily can be maintained while the ice is being melted. The method holds a great deal of promise for those long, lightly loaded lines in the moderate-and low-voltage class which so often fall prey to these storms. By choice of line length this circulating current plus load current can be made sufficient either to melt the ice or prevent its formation. The driving voltage Ec which produces the circulating current, varies with the angle between the normal and the displaced source. For a given driving voltage the circulating current Ic is determined by the impedance of the circulating current path, and the angle between Ec and Ic is determined by the circuit characteristics of this path."
"In the Swedish 400-kv network, three types-two air-blast and one oil-minimum of circuit breakers have been tested with regard to switching overvoltages. The method of measurement and the results obtained are discussed here."
"THE ELECTRIC POWER requirements for aircraft have shown an increased demand for a-c power. Repeatedly, weight studies made by airframe manufacturers have shown a saving through the generation and distribution of a-c power directly rather than the generation of d-c power and the ultimate conversion to meet the a-c power requirements. In addition, the over-all efficiency of the a-c system is higher than that of a d-c system with conversion to a-c power. For the most part, the a-c power requirements have been met through the use of single-generator systems or combinations of single-generator systems using split bus arrangements. However, the need for higher reliability systems having greater reserve capacity and making better utilization of generator capacity through the diversification of load equipment leads to the conclusion that parallel systems should be used in future aircraft. Reliable parallel operation of a-c machines requires the proper integration of many components."
"Ninety technical sessions and conferences already are planned for the 1954 Winter General Meeting to be held January 18–22 in New York, N. Y., at the Hotels Statler and McAlpin. Since at this time last year only 70 sessions were scheduled, it must be assumed that this year's meeting again will be 20 per cent larger than the meeting which was held last January. This would point to a possible registration of 5,500."
"In keeping with the dominance of the coal and chemical industries of West Virginia, emphasis was placed on these subjects at the 1953 AIEE Middle Eastern District Meeting held in the Daniel Boone Hotel, Charleston, W. Va., September 29-October 1. Nearly 470 members and guests attended the technical sessions and enjoyed the entertainment provided by the West Virginia Section"
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Applications for admission or re-election to Institute membership, in the grades of Fellow and Member, have been received from the fcllowing candidates, and any member objecting to election should supply a signed statement to the Secretary before November 25, 1953, oi January 25, 1954, if the applicant resides outside of the United States, Canada, or Mexico. [6 to the grade of Member]."
"Better protection, more efficiency, and quieter operation are brought out in a new line of polyphase a-c motors announced by the General Electric Company's Small Integral and Medium Induction Motor Departments. Called Tri-Clad∗ 55, the new motors are the result of more than 250,000 man-hours of developmental engineering and research. Built to latest standard National Electrical Manufacturers Association frame dimensions, they feature entirely new and advanced concepts of motor design."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"An automatic production line for the manufacture of electronic products and a novel system of electronics design which makes this possible have been developed by the National Bureau of Standards (NBS). The program, code-named Project Tinkertoy, was sponsored by the Navy Bureau of Aeronautics."
"The CBS-Colortron is an aluminized, direct-view, tricolor picture tube designed for use in color-television receivers. Electromagnetically deflected and electrostatically focused, the CBS-Colortron has a deflection angle of 45 degrees, and an over-all length of 26Vs inches. It provides a choice of full-color or black-and-white pictures on a screen area of approximately 104 square inches."
"The following new books are among those recentlyreceived at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Westinghouse News. Russel E. Ebersole, general sales manager of the Westinghouse Lamp Division, has announced the appointment of four new aides to his staff and the promotion of a fifth in an expansion of the division's sales organization. Charles E. Erb of Akron, Ohio, has been named to the newly created post of merchandising manager, and Robert J. Sampson, formerly on the sales staff of the division's central district, has been made manager of sales training. Robert H. Voorhis, former supervisor of market planning, has been appointed manager of that department with expanded responsibilities, and Willard L. Adamus of the division's research section has been named staff assistant to Mr. Voorhis. William F. Tremmel, Jr., will be staff assistant to the manager of the order services and warehouse department."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"SINCE August 6, 1945, when the atom first burst on the world's consciousness with the bomb which rocked Hiroshima, the State of Ohio has contributed enormously to the development of the atom. Up to now, most of that development has had for its object a strengthening of our defenses. That continues to be of paramount importance. Yet we also continue to hope that the atom will justify the sweat and toil that have been invested in it by leading to useful and significant peacetime applications for the benefit of the people of this state and nation, and the world. Before getting into a discussion of the prospects for realizing that hope, you may be interested in a brief review of what work Ohio has done on the atom."
"THE MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE electric loading of a coil is restricted by the allowable temperature rise in the coil cross section. In order to establish this peak loading, the designer must compute the maximum temperature or general temperature distribution that is peculiar to each new cross-section profile under design loading. A technique for computing these general temperature fields t(x, y) which combines simplicity with both flexibility and accuracy is the numerical-relaxation method of Emmons and Southwell."
"It is inevitable that man in his progress of communications from talking, telephoning, aural and visual broadcasting by radio, should go back a bit to do something more than merely transmit intelligence. This is about a refinement: reproducing recorded sound more faithfully than heretofore."
"After presenting the causes of motor overheating, thermal overload relays are discussed with bimetal-type or solder-film types being preferred. Short-circuit protection then is examined and molded-case air circuit breakers are suggested for use with most domestic- and industrial-type branch circuits to which motorized appliances are to be connected."
"Mine-trailing-cable construction is discussed with the cables being divided into five groups having characteristically different construction. The four principal types of damage to these cables are given together with ways of identifying the damage and both preventive and remedial measures."
"Although 60-cycle alternating current is almost universally employed for lighting purposes in this country, fluorescent lamps can be operated more economically on higher frequencies and at the same time their light output and life are increased."
"The available types of forced-air fans and control methods, their application to power transformers, and the advantages of each type for specific installations are discussed."
"The most important sources of noise system noise, secondary induction from telephone plant and external sources, and nonsoldered cable pair joints are discussed together with the methods of alleviating the trouble. Although control of crosstalk had been facilitated by the Nl system design, it still has to be dealt with in connection with transverse crosstalk, crosstalk in lateral cables, and interaction crosstalk at repeaters and at terminals."
"WITH THE ADVENT of mechanical mining it has become possible to mine coal from seams formerly considered too narrow for practical working. As a result, locomotive designers had to produce a haulage locomotive, big enough to handle the production of coal in seams 30 to 42 inches high. Moreover, the locomotive must conform to the requirements for standard haulage-type locomotives as regards high continuous tractive effort, latest traction motor design, sturdy construction, accessibility of equipment, and capability to accelerate a train."
"FOR FEAR that overcurrent relays might trip off the unit on overload when it is needed most, generators are usually not provided with relays to respond to balanced external faults. This is satisfactory practice because balanced faults on the system can be tolerated by the generator for an appreciable time. However, experience now indicates that the more closely designed modern generators should be provided with relays to detect the presence of unbalanced external faults that are not cleared in a proper time, since these may result in damage to the generator."
"The use of induction generators in semioutdoor plants, simple relay and water-wheel controls, and fully automatic features has reduced materially the plant investment, operating, and maintenance costs, thus making the use of small hydroelectric sites more desirable. The economic aspects of two actual induction generator plants are described."
"A DISCUSSION OF transformer design and characteristics would have been a rather controversial subject 15 years ago, as in those days the name-plate kilovolt-ampere rating of the transformer meant little other than that it was printed in English. Oftentimes in the early years, if the power companies limited the maximum connected kilovolt-amperes for a particular installation, a machine was supplied with this name-plate kilovolt-ampere rating, regardless of the actual load drawn by the machine. It was rather common practice to use excessive amounts of copper in the secondaries and a very small amount of primary copper. There was no logical reason for this except perhaps that the secondaries could be seen while the primaries were covered. In general, confusion existed, no standard ratings were used, and it was extremely difficult for power companies or users to determine actual ratings and demand figures. This condition of course could not continue and several years ago the AIEE and the Resistance Welder Manufacturers' Association (RWMA) drew up specifications for the standardization of welding transformer ratings."
"SUCCESSFUL USE of the transport helicopter in Korea and in the Canadian Rockies of British Columbia is focusing attention on the potentialities of this craft as a transport vehicle. With such successful operations in mind, a study was indicated of the feasibility of using a commercially available 8-passenger 1,500-pound payload-carrying transport helicopter for transmission-line maintenance and repair work. The system studied was the 1,558-mile transmission system of the Parker-Davis Project of the Bureau of Reclamation, in Arizona, California, and Nevada."
"CONVENIENT FORMULAS for current and voltage in the detector branch of a resistance bridge are shown in Figures 1 to 3. These formulas are particularly useful for determining either the exact sensitivity of the balanced bridge or the approximate output of the unbalanced bridge where the unbalance is, in general, not greater than the order of 10 per cent. In either case, the user is assumed to be referring to and working from the balanced-bridge condition. The proportional error of the output approximation, based on the exact output value, does not exceed the proportional unbalance of the bridge (for example, no more than a 1-per-cent error results if the bridge is out of balance by 1 per cent). It does not matter whether the values of V, I, C, T, S, and D are taken from the balanced or from the unbalanced bridge, although it is more convenient to take them from the former. The formulas in Figure 3 are of course not new, being merely representations of Thevenin's Theorem, but they nonetheless belong in this group to complete the logical assembly of formulas."
"THE THEORY and practice involved in the economic scheduling of thermal plants, including the effects of transmission losses, has been well developed in recent years. This article presents a method for short-range optimum economic scheduling of a thermal-hydroelectric power system with transmission losses rigorously considered."
"THE CIRCUIT shown contains two saturable reactors with “square loop” cores. An alternating voltage is applied to their windings through rectifying diodes. During positive half-cycles of the supply voltage Vc the core flux of the converter stage rises from some preset value to saturation. Before “firing” only a small magnetizing current flows; after firing the supply voltage appears across the load resistance Rc and the winding resistance rc. The preset flux is determined jointly by the line voltage, which in negative (presetting) half-cycles tries to remove the core from positive saturation and by the opposing voltage of a given half-wave sinusoidal signal Vs1 1 This stage converts the waveform of the signal Vs1 into a net output waveform Vc ′ of nearly equal half-cyclic area."
"Some of the reasons why grounding is important are discussed together with various methods for satisfactory neutral grounding of 3-phase a-c systems in industrial plants."
"A PROTECTIVE DEVICE which the author has called a differential reactive current protection relay (DRCPR) was developed for use in an aircraft a-c electric system, as a solution to a number of problems associated with reactive load division. This protective device is equally applicable to any system of paralleled alternators with automatic voltage regulation."
"Design of band-pass impedance transforming filters is derived from Norton's1 equivalence between a dissymmetrical band-pass filter and a symmetrical section plus an ideal transformer. This equivalence is illqstrated for a T section in Figure 1."
"This method for analyzing the effect of a limiter upon a signal is based upon a simple physical concept of the limiter and does not require the use of advanced mathematical techniques. The limiter is treated as a variable-gain device which amplitude modulates the input signal. Two examples demonstrate the new method."
"THE OBJECTIVE of this article is to point out the disadvantages of a 480-volt supply system for manufacturing plants and to emphasize the advantages of a 240/416-volt 3-phase 4-wire supply for both power and lighting."
"IN THE APPLICATION of carrier current to rural distribution lines, the problem of treatment of resonant taps is more acute than in similar installations on high-voltage transmission circuits. Large numbers of taps between 1/4 mile and 1 mile in length will be found on these lines. Taps of those lengths will be resonant at frequencies between 50 and 150 kc and in effect will short-circuit the carrier."
"THE LAST FEW YEARS have seen the field of servo-mechanisms develop into one of the leading branches of engineering. Along with this rise has come an increasing need for instruments to be used in this field. One of the most important of these instruments is the signal generator necessary to provide a forcing function signal to the servo system being studied."
"A METHOD OF CONTROLLING d-c power arcs is presented, with the emphasis on eliminating retrogressive motion of the arc. The data are applicable to interrupters which draw the arc in air and force it into an arc chute by means of a magnetic field. The arcs range from 50 to 20,000 amperes at 100 to 1,000 volts."
"Since the 1954 Winter General Meeting to be held in New York, N. Y., was first announced, the number of technical sessions being organized for the week of January 18–22 has been increased to 92. As this issue goes to press, the sessions are tentatively scheduled as follows:"
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"“What the Electrical Engineer Is Doing for the Public” was the theme of the AIEE Fall General Meeting, which was held at the Muehlebach Hotel, Kansas City, Mo., November 2–6, 1953. The 26 technical sessions covered a wide variety of timely subjects and were well received by the 950 members and guests who attended the meeting. The less serious side of the meeting the stag smoker and the dinner-dance were enjoyed by everyone and the ladies committee arranged a full program for members' wives."
"With an attendance of 382 engineers from all parts of the United States, the AIEE Aircraft Technical Conference was held in Seattle, Wash., September 30-October 3, at the Benjamin Franklin Hotel. A feature of the meeting was the inspection trips to the Boeing Airplane Company and Ault Field. On the latter tour, most of those attending took a trip on a DE Destroyer Escort ship. However, 40 of the aircraft engineers took advantage of transportation on a Boeing C-97 Stratofreighter provided by the Air Force"
"The Student Activities Committee of District 2 of the AIEE held its annual fall meeting at Howard University, Washington, D. C, on October 16 and 17, 1953. Representatives from 22 of the 28 schools in this District were present."
"The regular meeting of the AIEE Board of Directors was held in the Hotel Vancouver, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, on September 3, 1953."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of October 15, 1953, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objections to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections, signed by a member, must be furnished and will be treated as confidential. Applications for admission or re-election to Institute membership, in the grades of Fellow and Member, have been received from the following candidates, and any member objecting to election should supply a signed statement to the Secretary before December 25, 1953, or February 25, 1954, if the applicant resides outside of the United States, Canada, or Mexico."
"A new electronic device that is expected to speed inventory control in business and industry, reducing to a fraction of a second the time needed to check an entire inventory, has been developed by Remington Rand Inc."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Navigational radar has become an accepted item of equipment for most long-range merchant vessels throughout the world today, Due to high cost, however, and to high power demands, space requirements, and like problems, it has not found its way aboard smaller commercial and pleasure vessels."
"The joint meeting of the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE) and the Engineers' Council for Professional Development (ECPD) was held October 14–17, 1953, at the Statler Hotel, New York, N. Y. The theme of the meeting was “Civilization Is Dependent Upon the Growth of the Engineering Profession.”"
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Westinghouse Notes. Marcus N. Brooks has been appointed purchasing agent for the Television-Radio Division, Metuchen, N. J. He will have his offices at the division's new headquarters plant located in nearby Raritan Township, where television sets are assembled."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"AS THE YEAR 1952 draws to a close with the national defense program in high gear, many noteworthy engineering developments and trends have taken place. Twenty technical committees have reported advances in all five broad divisions of Institute activities. The rapid increase in the applications of computing devices in the field of communication switching systems is reported where an air-travel reservation system has been installed, an improved fully automatic teletypewriter message switching system has been placed in service, and a new accounting machine has been inaugurated in the Bell Systems known as AMA (automatic message accounting), where telephone message records for billing purposes are mechanically processed. An analogue computer also has been used for the fast solution of carrier-current transmission problems. The application of computing devices to the quality control of production also has been reported, which brings the age of push-button production control a step nearer. In the field of electric welding, both arc and resistance welding equipment have been improved. In the field of mining operations, there has been an increase in the use of automatic equipment and the application of remote communication and remote control as well as the experimental use of a remotely controlled robot mining machine. In the field of power generation, over 41,000,000 kw will be added to utility systems in the United States during the years 1952–55, and there is a trend toward larger and larger steam turbines of 250,000 kw using 1,100 degrees Fahrenheit steam. The use of aluminum for conductors and the sheath of power cables has been the subject of investigation as well as its experimental use in several types of transformers. Great expansion of transmission systems at all voltage levels is taking place and particular attention is being given to higher voltage systems in the order of 300–400 kv. In the field of science and electronics, there have been many noteworthy developments with primary attention still focused on the transistor. This device is out of the laboratory stage but experimental work to develop new circuitry and economical methods of production continues at an accelerated pace. During the year, the magnetic amplifier has been more widely accepted through a better understanding of saturable core devices as stable, reliable system control elements."
"This provocative article, based on data supplied by the Electrical Engineering Departments of 102 schools in the United States, indicates the quantity and quality of the graduates entering the power and electronics fields. Both causes and possible remedies for this unfortunate condition are presented here."
"The great increase in the number of AIEE Student Branches during the past 50 years naturally has brought about an increase in the problems involved, problems of leadership and attendance, of funds and programs. The Institute is very much interested in the development of student activities, however, particularly as the Branches constitute our largest single source of new members."
"A huge new area has been added to the electrical art through the extension of the electric welding process to glass. The mass market can be reached as it is unnecessary to have highly skilled personnel, and better quality results with more accurate heat control."
"WHILE THE ARTIFICIAL COOLING of rotating machinery and transformers is a practice which is familiar to most electrical engineers, it rarely has been used in the past in cable work. However, with the growth of load and the increased congestion which has resulted therefrom in power stations, substations, and their immediate neighborhood, artificial cooling of cables has become essential in some locations and economically desirable in others."
"For radio interference studies covering a wide frequency range, evaluation of the noise levels requires a great number of measurements with different instruments for each frequency range and type of communication. A high-speed oscillograph is valuable in such work as it can show the effect of each suppressive device on the undesirable transient."
"A PROCEDURE for synthesizing servomechanisms is introduced whereby the roots of the characteristic equations can be predicted. Given specified locations in the splane for such roots, the open-loop gain and compensation can be calculated to give the desired locations."
"A QUADRATURE-PHASE-SHIFT voltage transformer was designed and built to assist in the analysis of circuit parameters of single-phase induction motors from test results. It could be used for other applications having similar basic requirements."
"A critical evaluation of computing machinery is given from the viewpoint of the aeronautical engineer. The machines' limitations are presented together with suggestions to make them more useful in the aircraft industry."
"THE PROPOSED AIEE SYMBOLS and definitions for feedback control systems are employed. The term “signal component control” (scc), is used to designate the control method, and the term “scc device” to specify the particular associated equipment. The primary objective of the method is to shape the reference input so either the indirectly or the directly controlled variable, as may be elected, will be nearly identical at all times to the command signal. It is intended to achieve this objective so that: 1. The controlled variable will contain, at all times, a component which is identical to the command signal. 2. In a very short time (usually this will be made less than one-half the longest natural period of oscillation of the control system), all aperiodic deviations of the controlled variable from the command signal will be reduced to zero. 3. In the same short time each natural mode of the control system will be reduced to zero."
"FGR HIGH-VOLTAGE short-circuit testing of circuit breakers, fuses, disconnect switches, and so forth, at the new high-capacity Switchgear Testing Laboratory of the General Electric Company, Philadelphia, Pa., two 1,100,000-kva short-circuit transformers were installed."
"This new tube is identical in major dimensions to the original “Kenotron” as well as a later improved version. Thus it is easily adapted to many existing installations and facilitates the design of new apparatus to utilize fully its greater capabilities."
"THE PLATINUM resistance thermometer is the accepted interpolating device for the 1948 International Temperature Scale from −182.97 degrees centigrade to +630.5 degrees centigrade. When properly made, the reproducibility of its resistance justifies its calibration and use for measurements to 0.01 degree centigrade, or 1/80,000th of its temperature range. E. F. Mueller attacked this difficult resistance measurement problem with a hand-operated multiple-decade bridge.1 D. R. Stull attacked the problem with a mechanically balanced recorder using a slide-wire plus decades,2 and used the recorder for the determination of chemical purity by freezing point measurement. While Stull was building his recorder, the author and his associates also were building a recorder (using one of the several methods of electronic balancing which had then been developed). Based on the experience with these two types of recorders there was developed a third type, with improved precision, the experimental form of which is the subject of this article."
"Conditions previously ignored and ways of measuring the characteristics of the coupling networks, associated traps, and the adjacent power equipment of the proposed channel can be handled rapidly by the analogue computer before the installation is made."
"WITH THIS PART the study of several interconnected transmission networks begins. Numerical calculations of I2R losses in the component divisions of a typical, radially connected system are given in a companion paper1 for various power-interchange conditions."
"The necessity of electronic equipment in fighter aircraft is acknowledged, but the need for co-ordination of the various equipments to produce a completely integrated weapon is emphasized. Examples of the difficulties inherent in the present approach graphically dramatize the gravity of the situation."
"THE PAST FEW years have witnessed a steady increase in the use of chlorinated hydrocarbons in electrical components. These high dielectric constant insulating materials have been found particularly suitable for applications such as capacitor impregnating liquids. The search has continued steadily for additional chlorinated materials possessing improved performance characteristics under prolonged electrical stress."
"THE DEMAND FOR ever higher interrupting capacities and ever shorter interrupting and reclosing times of power circuit breakers has presented a challenge to the designer of the circuit-breaker operating mechanism. The gauge of this challenge is the achievement of interrupting times as short as 3 cycles and successive reclosing times, without intentional time delay, as short as 15 cycles, all without sacrifice of simplicity and reliability."
"A SHORT TIME AGO a subcommittee of the AIEE Transformer Committee was appointed to study the proposal that the short-circuit method of making temperature rise tests on transformers be the preferred method. The subcommittee report recommending that the proposal be accepted was approved by the Transformer Committee. The subcommittee report was presented at the 1950 AIEE Winter General Meeting in New York, N. Y., as Miscellaneous Paper 50–99."
"The 1953 Winter General Meeting, to be held at the Hotel Statler and the Engineering Societies Building in New York, N. Y., January 19–23, will feature the largest technical program in the history of the Institute. The social activities, for which the Winter Meetings are noted, will again be one of the outstanding features. A group of inspection trips has also been arranged, closely allied with the technical sessions and conferences."
"Color slides properly made and used will do much to make the presentation of technical material informative and interesting, but to be successful, careful planning is essential, according to T. H. Miller, assistant to the Director of Industrial Relations for the Eastman Kodak Company. Mr. Miller recently spoke before the Rochester section of the Photographic Society of America's Technical Division."
"The newest developments in electronics and nucleonics pertaining to the medical field were explained and discussed at the fifth AIEE conference on Electronic Instrumentation and Nucleonics in Medicine at the Hotel New Yorker, New York, N. Y., November 24–25, 1952. Seventeen technical papers were presented by physicians and engineers to an attendance of 188 members and guests with the primary thought of an interchange of ideas so that each group would know the other's problems and so becoming aware of them, electromedical science would be advanced."
"A regular meeting of the AIEE Board of Directors was held in the Jung Hotel, New Orleans, La., on October 16, 1952, during the Fall General Meeting."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of November 20, 1952, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections, signed by a member, must be furnished and will be treated as confidential. Applications for admission or re-election to Institute membership, in the grades of Fellow and Member, have been received from the following candidates, and any member objecting to election should so notify the Secretary before January 25, 1953, or March 25, 1953, if the applicant resides outside of the United States, Canada, or Mexico."
"A continuous coal mining system has been developed by Carbide and Carbon Chemicals Company designed for handling coal in outcrop seams by remote control. For this type of seam, preparation for coal removal is relatively simple. A working shelf is cleared at the level of the outcrop, and the mining rig takes over."
"The National Bureau of Standards (NBS) recently established a calibration service for determining the radio-frequency permeability and loss factor of magnetic materials in the frequency range between 50 kc and 30 megacycles. The primary calibrating standard is a coaxial line of variable length constructed to dimensions of extremely high accuracy. The characteristics of magnetic materials, such as the ferrites and powdered irons, are determined in terms of the variation in the length of the line. The Bureau also has developed a secondary standard of calibration that may be simply reproduced and utilized in the manufacture of magnetic materials."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The international electrotechnical commission is concerned with the development of international agreement on electrical standards. The president of the Commission reports herein on actions taken at the organization's recent meetings in Holland."
"After placing oil among other energy sources in the world, this article discusses its importance in Louisiana. It gives the location of the oil fields, refineries, and pipe lines, as well as modes of shipment of the major refinery products."
"Text of remarks at the ceremony attendant upon the breaking of ground for the Clifty Creek Plant of the Indiana-Kentucky Electric Corporation∗ at Madison, Ind., December 5, 1952."
"For centuries mariners have located their ships on the earth's waters by compass and dead reckoning and here the vagaries of the weather had to be considered. Since electronics came to the navigator's assistance, he has been able to obtain his fixes regardless of weather. Some of these electronic aids are described here."
"A-C GENERATORS in modern power plants usually are operated in unit connection directly on high-voltage bus bars, that is, alternator and transformer form one unit so that the circuit breaker at generator voltage is eliminated. A preferred method of ground protection for such units has been indirect high-resistance neutral grounding by connecting the primary winding of a distribution transformer between generator neutral and ground, and by loading the secondary of this transformer with a resistance of such magnitude that the resulting primary ground current for a solid ground fault at machine terminals becomes 10 to 20 amperes. This grounding method was first suggested1 in this country by L. F. Hunt as a means of minimizing fault damage within generators. The sensitivity of this scheme of protection depends on the lowest permissible pickup current of a relay activated by the current through the resistance. This pickup current indicates the parts of the machine windings which are protected. The straight line in Figure 1 shows that the assumed relay setting would lead to relay operation for faults anywhere between machine terminal (100) and location a, whereas ground faults between the neutral (0) and a would lie in the unprotected or dead zone."
"This article deals with the historical development of computers. It also discusses current problems and indicates future structural and functional computer trends which will help to free man from burdensome calculations and increase his material wealth while permitting him more time for pursuits not directly concerned with earning a living."
"AS A RESULT of experience in the operation of experimental heat pump systems in Philadelphia, Pa., it has become evident that it is necessary to direct efforts toward improving substantially the annual load factor of electrical service supply to such systems, to overcome the competitive handicaps inherent in utilizing electricity for house heating. The author believes that this objective may be accomplished through the development of economically feasible media for storing heat in sufficient quantities to permit a reduction in the maximum kilowatt demand for electricity of a heat pump system."
"EARTH SEEMS to be superior to air or water as a source for heat pumps. Its ambient temperature is higher and less variable than outdoor air, and its use does not involve problems of accessibility or recirculation such as would accompany the use of surface or underground water. However, little factual information has been available on the heat transfer characteristics of the earth, particularly as a heat source. Also, some investigators were apprehensive that prolonged heat withdrawal or absorption would have adverse effects upon the long-term temperature levels in the earth."
"IN ORDER TO INVESTIGATE the practicability of using heat pumps for year-round residential heating and cooling in the Philadelphia, Pa., area, two experimental installations were operated for 2 years, using the earth as a heat source and heat sink."
"TELEVISION unquestionably has a place in industry and even at this comparatively early stage of its development its increasing acceptance, as well as uses now visualized for it in the future, indicate that its potential for industry is probably greater than that to be realized commercially."
"EXPERIENCE OF 42 sleet seasons has enabled the Pennsylvania Water and Power Company to develop methods of combating sleet accumulations which provide satisfactory performance of lines susceptible to sleet troubles. Design improvements also have been made, and a 1931 design has given perfect performance in an area where sleet storms are prevalent."
"All push-pull pole-top methods of resuscitation, evaluated on five apneic subjects, proved 1½ times as effective for pulmonary ventilation as the standard pole-top method. The double-rock push-pull seems best for several reasons. A discussion by E. W. Oesterreich questions the advisability of adopting this new system unless it can be proved conclusively either that the present method is inadequate or the new method more effective and that it does not sacrifice any advantages now obtained."
"QUESTIONS HAVE BEEN RAISED, mostly by safety engineers of electric power supply companies, as to whether the basic principle of the recently accepted Holger-Nielsen push-pull prone method of artificial respiration is applicable as an advantageous revision of the pole-top method of artificial respiration. As a result of the authors' interest in the general problem of artificial respiration, there now is available for study and analysis, data based on well-planned and courageously executed laboratory tests. However, when a change from the time-proved practice is contemplated, serious consideration must be given to two factors of primary importance, namely, whether the present practice is inadequate, either from an application or efficiency viewpoint, or whether the present practice can be replaced by another which is more effective without greatly sacrificing any advantages of the one being replaced."
"This pioneering extensive petroleum-products pipe line utilized high-speed centrifugal pumps driven by electric motors. In addition all power was purchased from power companies and all communication was handled by the telephone company. The advantages as well as the disadvantages are presented, and suggestions made for further improvements."
"PNEUMATIC OPERATION of power circuit breakers, which started before 1900, was used very little until the last decade. The increasing energy required for closing circuit breakers of higher and higher rating, and the demand for quicker closing and reclosing, enhanced the advantages of the pneumatic mechanism and led to its present predominance in the operation of large power circuit breakers. Experience gained with the mechanisms which pioneered the applications and gained widespread use have guided the development of a new line of devices to meet modern requirements of circuit breakers over the voltage range of 230 to 14.4 kv, interrupting capacity range from the highest down to 500 megavolt-amperes, and interrupting times of 8, 5, and 3 cycles."
"IN ANALYZING the relaying techniques involved in this subject, as distinct from the carrier tools available, we find that there are three recognized principles of carrier relaying, namely: 1. transferred signals, 2. phase comparison, and 3. directional comparison. Any of these principles must be applied with attention to the local conditions under which it must function. By inattention to detail design, trip and control circuits have been known to hold lines, equipment, or protection schemes out of service unnecessarily. Also, the operating personnel may have numerous special features to remember and watch. Such instances, plus random difficulties, can build up antipathy to any type of relaying, carrier included."
"Certain developments in the field of built-up bonded mica products for use as electrical insulation are described with emphasis placed on high-temperature applications."
"TWO MAGNETIC UNITS A and B, Figure 1, are used as saturable reactors, and the load consists of inductance LL and resistance RL. The gate current iG, flowing through the gate windings X1 to X2, is discontinuous and flows in rectangular pulses whose amplitude is the same as that of the load current. Thus the average value of the load current IL is larger than the average value of the gate current IG."
"ELECTRIC SHOCK HAZARD from the surface of an energized cable is of great importance due to the increasing use of semiconductive jackets. Data were obtained showing the amount of current flowing to ground over a range of “body contact” resistances for nonshielded, metallic-shielded, and “semiconductive” jacketed rubber-insulated cables operating at various voltage levels. The range of currents then was related to known shock sensation levels to assess the amount of hazard involved. A theoretical approach to the voltage rise, surface current, and shock current of cables having different outer surfaces materials helps considerably in understanding the phenomena involved. Calculation of surface voltage rise and current flow can be carried out properly by considering the distributive nature of the cable constants."
"THE ELECTROMAGNETIC FORCES experienced by the end windings of machines during the surge currents of a sudden short circuit can be large enough to cause serious trouble if the windings are not properly supported. Knowledge of these forces is particularly important in turbine-generators, where the increased loading associated with operation at elevated hydrogen pressures and with larger ratings tends to raise the machine forces to ever greater magnitudes. A step-by-step approach to the evaluation of force on any desired portion of the end windings of a machine, with sufficient accuracy for an engineering study, can be made using a method based on the following differential vector equation1, expressed as a triple cross product:"
"The rotor moment of inertia of a separately excited d-c motor constitutes a true capacitance, capable of resonating with the armature inductance, so the equivalent armature circuit consists of resistance, inductance, and capacitance in series. However, data presented indicate that the armature moment of inertia would have to be reduced radically to render the motors suitable for 60 cycles."
"THE IMPULSE dielectric strength of pressboard impregnated with insulating liquids is of interest where such insulation has to withstand high transient impulse voltages. A comparison of the impulse dielectric strength of dry pressboard impregnated with a variety of insulating liquids of differing chemical structure has indicated that, in pressboard, chlorinated compounds of the Askarel type show appreciably lower impulse strength than mineral oil, perfluorinated compounds, or a variety of other liquid compounds. Impulse tests were conducted using the standard 1½ × 40-microsecond wave shape."
"THIS REPORT covers results of tests to determine the dielectric breakdown characteristics of 3-mil paper sheets, each treated, measured, and tested according to standard paper making and standard electrical procedures. The unique feature here is the successful attempt to hold the density of the paper constant and vary the air resistance through wide limits, and thus give a relation between dielectric breakdown and air resistance."
"THE DESIRE FOR improvement in the fire risk of oil-filled transformers promoted the introduction of the Askarel-insulated type. These have well-demonstrated characteristics of noninflammability and no production of explosive breakdown materials which can contribute to secondary explosions. Extensive internal faults, however, can produce disruptive pressures and severe mechanical effects."
"The EDVAC is a large-scale digital computer utilizing an unconventional language and logical structure to solve complex problems. A discussion of these elements is followed by a description of the units that mechanize these characteristics."
"IN THE APPLICATION of power-line carrier equipment, the development of quantitative information on the transmission path has been slow. The first widespread use of carrier was for protective relaying where the configuration of the transmission path was simple. As a result of hundreds of successful installations of the carrier relaying equipment on typical transmission lines, certain assumptions on which the application of tuning equipment and traps were based were adopted throughout the carrier industry."
"IN THE MARCUS HOOK AREA, a few miles south of Chester, Pa., the Philadelphia Electric Company supplies a large concentration of industrial load, requiring a high degree of service continuity. Heretofore this load has been supplied directly from the Chester Generating Stations by means of 13.8-kv 3-phase underground cable lines. To provide reliable service, many of the customers in this area have been provided with dual service lines, and in most instances the two lines have been operated in parallel."
"A THEORY ASSOCIATING the commutation phenomena1,2 with the unstable behavior of magnetic amplifiers with slightly less than 100-per-cent positive feedback is presented here.3 Although the study has been based upon the well-known self-saturating doubler circuit, the results of the study may be expected to apply equally well to other types of feedback magnetic amplifiers where commutation exists."
"THE RAPID EXPANSION of electric power requirements in the Tennessee Valley area has created a demand for circuit breakers which has greatly exceeded previous records both for size and number of units involved. Present requirements call for over 100 3-pole units, all rated at 10,000,000 kva 161 kv, and applicable on highspeed, single-, double-, and triple-reclosing duty at rating factors of 84, 64, and 51 per cent, respectively."
"Although forward strides have been effected in radar sets and their accomplishments, many problems remain to be solved and this is especially true in the components of the equipment. The British system of Establishments for attacking technical problems is described here together with some of their methods."
"New methods of electronic computer operation that should presage extended use in commercial and scientific fields, were discussed by some of the nation's leading authorities at the second annual 3-day Computer Conference and Exhibition sponsored jointly by the AIEE, Institute of Radio Engineers, and the Association for Computing Machinery. The conference was held at the Park Sheraton Hotel, New York, N. Y., December 10–12, 1952, and was attended by more than 1,200 engineers and guests."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of December 28, 1952, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections, signed by a member, must be furnished and will be treated as confidential. Applications for admission or re-election to Institute membership, in the grades of Fellow and Member, have been received from the following candidates, and any member objecting to election should supply a signed statement to the Secretary before February 25, 1953, or April 25, 1953, if the applicant resides outside of the United States, Canada, or Mexico."
"Based on the action of a mirror which rotates at a speed of 50,000 rpm and wipes an image onto film at a sweep rate of 5.466 millimeters per microsecond, a new research camera has been developed by Beckman and Whitley, Inc."
"Nuclear scientists, who work daily with radioactive materials too “hot” to handle, have been able to solve many of their problems by using one of the most unique tools of the Atomic Age — the “Hot Laboratory.”"
"The Montana-Dakota Utilities Company (MDU) has established a $250,000 radiotelephone network to improve customer service and increase the operating efficiency of its electric power and gas systems in North and South Dakota, Montana, and Wyoming. Engineers of the General Electric Company, who assisted in planning the network, said it is one of the largest of its kind in the nation."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"In his address before the AIEE Winter General Meeting, President Quarles reviews some matters of current interest to the engineering profession, and to members of the Institute in particular."
"The growth of an engineer can be evaluated both in terms of his professional growth and of his growth as a member of society. Here one must consider not only the young engineer's responsibility to himself, but the responsibilities of the company which employs him and the goals to which such growth can be expected to lead."
"In these days of uncertainty and indecision, when free peoples are struggling to maintain their freedoms, a nation's educational system can be its greatest resource. The Chancellor of New York University here discusses the future of American education and its relationship to some of the national and international problems we now face."
"Air pollution prevention has been a concern of the electric power industry for many years. This article brings together and evaluates considerable data concerning this problem, placing special emphasis on electrostatic precipitators."
"With the development of big business, the close personal relationship which formerly existed between employer and employee has evolved into a complex industrial relations problem which jeopardizes the future of the American system of competitive enterprise. The successful solution of this problem calls for sincere co-operation on the part of management, employees, and organized labor."
"The Edison Medal for 1952 has been awarded to Vladimir K. Zworykin of the RCA Laboratories Division, Radio Corporation of America, “for outstanding contributions to the concept and design of electronic components and systems.” The Medal, awarded annually by the AIEE Edison Medal Committee, is for meritorious achievement in electrical science or electrical engineering or the electrical arts."
"I AM BOTH PLEASED and honored to have a part in this program of recognition of Vladimir K. Zworykin — pleased because Zworykin and I have been together as friend and associate for more than 20 years — honored because the Edison Medal ceremony is a profound reminder of meritorious achievement."
"I am deeply appreciative of the honor conferred on me by the AIEE through the presentation of the Edison Medal. It is a privilege indeed to have my work adjudged as following in the great tradition of accomplishment created by Thomas Alva Edison. I regard this honor not merely as a recognition of my work as an individual. More properly, it is a measure of the impact on present-day society of television, the primary objective of many men besides myself."
"TWO-MACHINE stability problems can be solved more accurately by utilizing composite general circuit constants.1 These permit the inclusion of losses, intermediate loads, transformer taps, and so forth, without an excessive amount of labor. The only restriction on their use is that loads must be represented as constant impedances; but this is a conventional assumption for stability studies. In addition this method makes it possible to include the inertia of both machines without approximation."
"FEEDBACK CONTROL DESIGN is passing into a third stage of development as the systems become more complicated, less subject to linear treatment, and more susceptible to noise problems. Before 1934, empirical methods were usually satisfactory since regulators required relatively little accuracy. Thereafter, with war requirements for accurate positioning devices, it was necessary to design servomechanisms carefully so that linear theory could be applied. But the present tendency in feedback control systems is to include the effects of saturation resulting from large-signal input, the irregularities of amplifying elements, and to utilize relay systems and nonlinear elements to obtain a better solution to the control problem. To study such systems, analogue computers are useful; this article reviews some of these systems."
"As the nuclear research laboratory is supplied with numerous lethal equipments, adequate safety measures are imperative. Another important consideration for such laboratories is flexibility of the power system as changes are so frequently necessary. Some of the specific requirements of both utility and research power are discussed."
"CIVIL DEFENSE REQUIRES communications for two principal reasons. First, to give the people advance warning of impending attacks. The high speeds of modern aircraft require that the communications for alerting must be rapid and reliable. Second, communications are needed by Civil Defense in fulfilling its responsibilities connected with fire fighting, rescue, medical needs, debris clearance, emergency repair of vital facilities, monitoring for specific hazards, and so forth. Communications are needed within cities, between cities in the same state, and on a nation-wide basis. In a real sense communications are the nerves of the Civil Defense effort."
"A HIGH-VOLTAGE CIRCUIT BREAKER of the low-oil-content type, shown in Figure 1, was field tested in December 1951 to obtain performance characteristics on this unfamiliar design. The equipment tested was manufactured in Switzerland and is rated at 135 kv, 5 cycles, 600 amperes, and 3,000,000 kva on the European symmetrical current rating basis. Test facilities and personnel were furnished by the Bonneville Power Administration. In addition to the usual equipment there was provided a special high-accuracy cam switch designed to control accurately the relative points on the 60-cycle voltage wave at which the fault was applied and the test circuit breaker contacts parted."
"Monitoring generating station stack emission is one of the more difficult applications of industrial television due to the wide range in natural illumination under which it must function. An early installation, which has now been operating for 2 years, is described here."
"DIESEL-ELECTRIC LOCOMOTIVES have replaced steam locomotives in the United States to a great extent and have been used in preference to railway electrification, whereas in Europe the tendency is still rather in favor of full electrification."
"REGULATING SYSTEMS are a combination of devices whereby a large amount of energy is controlled by a small amount of energy. In designing regulating systems it is necessary to be able to evaluate power amplification, delay, and voltage gain of the amplifiers involved. In static and rotating magnetic amplifiers, as voltage gain is flexible, power amplification and delay define the capabilities of the amplifier. For this reason the “figure of merit” of a magnetic amplifier has been defined as the ratio of amplifier power amplification to amplifier time constant. This is expressed:"
"AS AN INTRODUCTION to a discussion of the S. s. united states, it may be interesting to explain some of the background leading up to the decision by the Government to build ships which have national defense features included in their basic design. During and after the termination of World War II, the Armed Forces in this country learned several lessons in regard to the levels at which our Merchant Marine must be maintained if the United States was to be able to maintain successfully its own security and, at the same time, contain and defeat the aggressive actions of any potentially unfriendly nation in other parts of the world. The lesson pertinent to this discussion was that this country was sadly lacking in large, fast vessels capable of rapid conversion into troop transports. The few vessels which were available, including those loaned to us by our allies, were discovered to be lacking in vital defense features, and, because of their inherent design as passenger vessels, were also found to require costly and lengthy alterations before they could serve as transports at all. An examination of rentals paid to foreign vessels, including costs of conversion and reconversion, further showed that it was financially expensive to depend on the utilization of foreign-flag vessels under war conditions."
"IT IS NOT SURPRISING that the fundamentally important advances in the electrostatic method of separating suspended particles from gases have resulted primarily from improved methods of supplying high-voltage power. Much recent research in the electrostatic collection of particles has been directed toward improving and stabilizing electrical energization, both in connection with conventional rectifier equipment and in the development of entirely new methods of supplying electric energy. Conventional methods of supplying high-voltage power to precipitators stem directly from Cottrell's pioneer work, and essentially comprise transformer and rectifier equipment, usually with unfiltered output."
"IN THE PROCESS of design, the engineer must consider the change in the system transfer function due to corrective networks added in cascade. Instead of a trial and error adjustment of the network parameters, templates for different corrective networks and prototype systems are drawn, which show the change in gain and phase."
"BASICALLY, outdoor switches must operate successfully under all circuit and atmospheric conditions. A new side-break type of switch has been designed incorporating novel contact construction in order to be comparable with modern vertical break switches without flexible braids, assuring long trouble-free life, easy operation, and maintenance. Important design specifications are 1. Moving parts should be protected from the entrance of dirt or foreign matter. 2. Suitability for operation under ice conditions. 3. The switch should have silver contact surfaces and use pressures which serve to eliminate galling of the silver. 4. No flexible braids should be used in the switch. 5. The switch should conform with National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) test requirements."
"The primary physiologic effects of microwaves appear to be due to the heating and are accompanied by an increase in the flow of blood. However, several undesirable effects were noted in connection with treatment of the eye, the most serious being the formation of cataracts. Other cautions necessary in the therapeutic application of microwaves are presented."
"THIS TRANSMISSION MEASURING SET has been found particularly useful in connection with the design of feedback amplifier circuits. A wide frequency range over which gain and phase can be directly read with sufficient accuracy for many design purposes has been achieved. The capabilities of the set are as follows:"
"PERMANENT-MAGNET generators have been built with ratings ranging from a few watts up to many kilowatts. Figure 1 shows a 0.1-kw rotor suspended from a 75-kva unit and even larger capacities and higher speeds are possible. The armature of permanent magnet alternators may be of conventional design, but the field structure is inherently different and in the last 6 years a rotor structure has been developed which is sound mechanically, efficient magnetically, and simple to manufacture."
"MOST OF THE PROCEDURES and formulas for the electrical design calculations of synchronous machines with electromagnetic field poles may be adapted also to machines with permanent-magnet fields, but without quite the same close degree of conformity between prediction and actual performance. The main reasons for this discrepancy are: magnetic tolerances in the hard magnetic material, assumptions in practical leakage calculations, uncertainty in locating exactly the position of the minor hysteresis loop when the magnets have been stabilized by short circuit, and difficulties in magnetizing closely spaced poles to full saturation."
"The development of radar and television has caused considerable use of wide-band amplifiers which often employ transformer coupling. In many of these applications, the single-layer configuration with no space between windings is practicable. To eliminate trial and error in the design of these transformers this chart has been prepared."
"IN REFERRING to the damping properties of 2-phase induction motors which are extensively used in high-performance servomechanisms, it is important to stress that some of these motors have good viscous friction to inertia ratios or special damping means, and others have not. Separately excited induction-meter-type reversible motors, as sometimes used in self-balancing potentiometer recorders, have a permanent magnet producing eddy-current damping. Some types of low-inertia squirrel-cage induction motors and drag-cup-type motors have eddy-current damping devices built into the motor. There are, however, other constructions of such motors which have virtually no damping properties so that additional damping methods must be applied to prevent hunting."
"THE SHORT-CIRCUIT and phase-shift methods for removal of ice formation from approximately 95 per cent of its 3,200 miles of 33-, 66-, and 132-kv transmission lines are being used by Public Service Company of Northern Illinois, Wheaton. These methods are used when the severity and extent of ice storms in the company's 11,000 square miles of territory make ice prevention measures through additional line loadings and current circulation in transmission-line loops not wholly effective."
"Several gas turbines have been placed in commercial operation within the last few years as prime movers. Their operating records indicate their use should be considered when economic studies are being made for various applications. Several possible applications are suggested."
"A total of 88 sessions during which 168 papers and 232 conference papers were presented comprised the technical program of the AIEE Winter General Meeting held in New York, N. Y., January 19–23, 1953. Meeting headquarters was in the Hotel Statler and the overflow of sessions beyond the capacity of the Statler were held in the Engineering Societies Building. The smoker was held at the Hotel Commodore on Tuesday evening, and the dinner-dance in the ballroom of the Hotel Statler on Thursday evening. Inspection trips to places of interest in the city and the vicinity were arranged during the days and theater tickets to the popular shows were made available to out-of-town members during the week of the meeting. The total registered attendance was 4,676 members and guests. This represents a 19.2-per-cent increase over the record attendance of 3,925 for the previous year."
"The establishment of two new Sections, reports on Institute affairs, Section operation and management, and other Section activities including a proposed constitutional amendment and amendments to sections of the Bylaws were discussed at a meeting of the Sections Committee held on January 20. Director C. S. Purnell, chairman of the Sections Committee, presided. Preceding the meeting, a movie on the features of Atlantic City, N. J., where the Summer General Meeting will be held, was shown and it was announced that the film is available for the Sections."
"A number of authors who presented conference papers at the recent AIEE Winter General Meeting in New York, N. Y., have announced their willingness to supply copies of these papers upon request. (Conference papers are not scheduled for publication in AIEE Transactions.) A list of currently available papers follows. Readers desiring copies should write directly to the respective authors, at the addresses given."
"The second annual meeting of the American Power Conference will be held March 25–27, 1953, at the Sherman Hotel in Chicago, Ill."
"The third Conference on High-Frequency Measurements was held in Washington, D. C, January 14–16, 1953, in the auditorium of the Department of the Interior. The sponsors were the AIEE, Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE), and the National Bureau of Standards (NBS). Twenty-seven technical papers were presented at the four sessions and two demonstration lectures were given at the Thursday evening joint meeting of the Washington Sections of the AIEE and the IRE. More than 700 engineers and guests attended the sessions and the luncheon on Thursday at the Hotel Statler, the conference headquarters."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of January 15, 1953, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections, signed by a member, must be furnished and will be treated as confidential. Applications for admission or re-election to Institute membership, in the grades of Fellow and Member, have been received from the following candidates, and any member objecting to election should so notify the Secretary before March 25, 1953, or May 25, 1953, if the applicant resides outside of the United States, Canada, or Mexico."
"A new electronic, digital computer with one of the largest memories yet incorporated in any computing device has been built by the General Electric Company for use by the United States Air Force's Research and Development Command at its Flight Research Laboratory, Wright Air Development Center, Dayton, Ohio."
"An electronic device that intelligently reacts to numbers spoken into any ordinary telephone, which some day may make it possible to put through a call automatically by speaking the desired telephone number into the mouthpiece instead of dialing it, has been developed by Bell Telephone Laboratories."
"A unique axle-testing machine, capable of simulating in a laboratory actual driving conditions that a truck weighing 80,000 pounds and traveling at a speed of 60 miles an hour would experience, was installed recently in the Alden Indoor Proving Ground of the Timken-Detroit Axle Company in Detroit, Mich."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Recent amendments to the AIEE Constitution have changed the requirements for the various grades of membership. The chairman of the Board of Examiners explains in this article what these changes are and how applicants, sponsors, and references can help in making the system of admissions and transfer work smoothly and fairly."
"After pointing out the lack of attention paid to basic methodology in the United States until very recently, the inductive and deductive methods are discussed together with the correlational and theoretical approaches to scientific research. It also is indicated that the method of theoretical science can and should be applied to the social sciences."
"Artificial lightning tests are now in progress on highly insulated experimental transmission lines with the chief objective of acquiring extra-high-voltage data. However, the test program anticipates the use of the equipment to obtain similar data applicable to lower voltage lines."
"THE USE AND DEVELOPMENT of voltage regulators over the past 50 years has produced the modern amplidyne voltage regulator. This regulator includes a voltage-sensitive circuit composed of static elements, such as transformers, reactors, resistors, capacitors, and metallic rectifiers. These are all reliable, conservatively designed components with long life expectancy. The voltage-sensitive circuit controls the voltage introduced by a rotating amplifier, called an amplidyne, into the shunt field circuit of the self-excited exciter for a large turbine generator. The regulator controls exciter voltage, by varying the amplidyne voltage to aid or oppose the flow of current through the exciter shunt field, to maintain the generator terminal voltage essentially constant. A minimum excitation limit circuit is employed to guard against reduction of generator excitation below values which will safely avoid loss of synchronism. This limit circuit responds to generator underexcited reactive current, and it can be adjusted to allow larger values of this current at low kilowatt loads than at high kilowatt loads. The limit circuit is composed of static components similar to those used in the voltage-sensitive circuit."
"THE GRAPHICAL MAPPING of a 2-dimensional field in a nearly closed area that is without sources is, at best, a difficult task. A typical case is that of flux down a slot. The only feasible approach is to map it by partial subdivision. This has been started in Figure 1 and continued in Figure 2. In this field, which will be called the original field, A′P is an equipotential boundary; AA′, BB′, and so forth, are flux lines, and the line A″P is a flux line."
"A discussion of UNIVAC's role in predicting the national election results is presented which includes the development of a mathematical theory as well as the actual setup of the problem on the machine."
"MAGNETIC AMPLIFIER FEEDBACK circuits generally have no influence upon the effective input impedance of the control circuit, because the d-c feedback component flows through special feedback windings, “external feedback,” or in the load windings, “internal feedback” or “self-saturation.” Therefore, the effective impedance of the control circuit is determined solely by the actual total resistance of this circuit comprising the resistance of the control windings and a series resistor which is conventionally provided to increase the speed of response of the magnetic amplifier."
"Possibilities for stimulating professional work still exist and are increasing for the young man who chooses work in the power field. Manufacturers and employers whose interests lie in this field should stress management positions and new developments in power generation, sources of power, high-voltage transmission, and distribution as great opportunities for young engineers."
"Expendable armature windings of a-c rotating machinery are subject to various kinds of damage which are becoming better understood. Tests of windings, available through failure or aging, yield important design data."
"THE PHENOMENON of cathode drift represents one of the more troublesome sources of drift in direct-coupled amplifiers, and although the exact mechanisms involved have not been completely explained, it is generally accepted that the conditions of drift can be simulated, for analytical purposes, by the assumption of a random noise-voltage generator in series with the cathode of the tube in question."
"The increasing prominence of the diesel-electric locomotive on American railroads has given new impetus to the use of dynamic braking. A recent refinement of braking control takes advantage of additional traction-motor capacity available at low speeds and service tests have shown the operational and economic value of this form of braking."
"With industry becoming increasingly interested in the engineering graduate with strong training in basic sciences, it is time to review the causes and reasons for specialized engineering education. Options in their present form are creating some serious problems and changes in curricula should be made both to interest students in engineering and to answer industry's insistence upon more fundamentals in science and mathematics."
"THE ECONOMIC DESIGN of automatic circuit reclosers has been made possible through the use of a series solenoid which opens the recloser when current exceeds a minimum trip value and stores energy for automatic reclosing. As the power output of the series solenoid at minimum trip current is small, this design has limited 3-phase reclosers to single-pole operation. Single-pole operation has the disadvantage that feedback through transformer banks can prevent the interruption of transient phase to ground faults and cause unnecessary lockout of the recloser."
"ONE OF THE major difficulties in obtaining high performance from a magnetic amplifier servo system has been the slow speed of response of the magnetic amplifier. Although the magnetic amplifier is a carrier-type system and as such has a minimum response time per stage of one cycle of the supply or carrier frequency, this response is usually not obtained in conventional full-wave circuitry. A major factor contributing to the slow speed of response in such circuits is the inductance-resistance time constant in the control circuit."
"With the range requirements for long-distance flights increasing it is imperative that the operating efficiency of the aircraft be maintained at the highest level. To attain this peak performance an automatic cruise-control computer has been proposed which is here compared with current manual techniques."
"IN INTRODUCING the subject of electrical maintenance in modern aircraft, it is felt that a brief history of the development of these systems is in order to show the development from the rather simple systems as used on the DC-2's and DC-3's, which were the latest design 10 to 12 years ago, to the complex maintenance required on the intricate electric systems used in the modern airplanes such as Constellations, Martin 404's, and so forth."
"EXPERIENCE WITH SLEET CONDITIONS on the Niagara Mohawk System has indicated that adequate planning is necessary if satisfactory results are to be secured from any sleet-melting program. This planning extends from system design, to operating procedures, to training. All must be co-ordinated to weather a severe storm successfully. Included in this planning is close contact with the United States Weather Bureau."
"THE PROPER application of line traps in power-line carrier systems requires the consideration of the needs of the system and the properties of the line traps. In the past, insufficient information was generally given or, in many cases, known, to realize the possible resonant conditions that could exist in an installation. Recent investigations have brought to light many of these pitfalls."
"South India now has a larger high-voltage laboratory at Bangalore which will facilitate basic research, train personnel in high-voltage technique, and carry out electrical tests for industry and science. A brief description of its equipments and the types of investigations undertaken are presented."
"This new completely self-contained switch interrupts line-charging currents, transformer-magnetizing currents, and load currents of transmission voltages. It is composed of a modern vertical-break air switch combined with a porcelain-clad gas-filled chamber. It is small, lightweight, easily operated, and economical."
"THE DATA PRESENTED in this article are the results of surveys conducted by the Relay Project Committee on Transmission-Line Protection. Two questionnaires were submitted to a number of relay engineers representing varied interests throughout the United States and Canada in order to obtain a comprehensive analysis of the extent of backup protection used."
"After a discussion of the generation of static electricity, the safety factors in hospital operating rooms are examined with emphasis on conductive floors and electrostatic hazard alarms."
"SULPHUR HEXAFLUORIDE (SF6) is extremely stable and inert, remains a gas down to — 62 degrees centigrade at normal pressure, and is comparable to oil in dielectric strength at only 30 pounds per square inch gauge pressure. Its dielectric strength is generally two or three times that of air although the ratio is affected by the electrode configuration, voltage wave shape, and pressure."
"The test instruments used for checking time synchronization between the shutter switch contact “make” and the opening of the shutter aperture, the equivalent energy transfer of the “momentary make” type of shutter switches, and an instrument for checking the life of shutters during production are briefly described."
"Many potentially sound thyratron applications have been avoided because of a feeling on the part of some designers that these tubes are unpredictable in their performance. Most of these reports have been found to stem from some unit design in which the importance of grid circuit reliability had been overlooked."
"The introduction of students to magnetic fields and to electromagnetic-mechanical reactions should be concurrent with the arbitrary definitions of co-ordinates for the directed physical quantities. This conserves the time and energy of the instructor and students alike. The single new rule described supersedes both of Fleming's hand rules (dated 1885). It substantially reduces errors in applications, for students need remember only which is their right hand!"
"Although there is general agreement among engineers on the need for unification and a number of plans have been proposed, as yet no one of these has received the full support of the profession. The Unity Organization outlined in this article is suggested by the Pittsfield General Electric Engineers Association as a possible solution."
"After pointing out that railroads should handle their commuter business on a rapid-transit basis, the ideal transit car is described. The qualifications are maximum safety, low initial cost, low operating and maintenance costs, operating characteristics allowing easy and economical maintenance of high schedule speeds, attractiveness, and comfort for the passengers. Suggestions are made about conditions requiring the electrical engineer's special attention."
"The AIEE Southern District Meeting and Student Branch Meeting will be held concurrently this year at Louisville, Ky., Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, April 22–24. The AIEE Committee on Domestic and Commercial Applications of the General Applications Division will hold their Appliance Conference during this meeting. The opening general meeting for all is scheduled for Wednesday at 10:00 a.m."
"The AIEE Boston Section, host to the 1953 North Eastern District Meeting, April 29–May 1, this year celebrates its 50th anniversary — in company with the Philadelphia and Schenectady Sections. Thus, an especially interesting meeting program has been planned, with the golden anniversary as its theme. In addition, Boston itself and its environs offer many points of historical interest which should not be missed."
"North Eastern District Meeting, Boston, Mass., April 29–May 1"
"A regular meeting of the AIEE Board of Directors was held at Institute headquarters, New York. N. Y., on January 22, 1953."
"Judging by advance requests for information, more than 1,500 scientists, engineers, and executives will attend the 1953 Electronics Components Symposium to be held at the Shakespear Club in Pasadena, Calif., April 29-May 1, 1953. The 3-day meeting is being sponsored by the AIEE, Institute of Radio Engineers, Radio-Television Manufacturers Association, and the West Coast Electronic Manufacturers Association."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of February 19, 1953, recommended the following members for traxisfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections, siened by a member, must be furnished and will be treated as confidential. Applications for admission or re-election to Institute membership, in the grades of Fellow and Member, have been received from the following candidates, and any member objecting to election should so notif)' the Secretary before April 25, 1953, or June 25, 1953, if the applicant resides outside of the United States, Canada, or Mexico."
"A new type of electronic flowmeter, capable of measuring the air currents in a still room or the rapid flow of fluids in pipes, has been developed recently at the National Bureau of Standards (NBS). This device utilizes the change in velocity of sound waves as a measure of fluid flow. It has a very fast response and does not obstruct the fluid currents to make the measurement. In addition, the signal-to-noise ratio is sufficiently high to permit the measurement of extremely small velocities."
"A new lightweight projector for television stations which provides automatic, remote, or local control “lapping” of an unlimited number of 2- by 2-inch transparent slides has been developed by Gray Research and Development Company, Inc."
"A powerful new investigative tool for use by the research or industrial physicist and chemist embodies a new concept in optics."
"Contracts have been signed with seven major power companies in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, and Delaware for the installation of an A-C Network Analyzer in the industrial research laboratories of The Franklin Institute, Philadelphia, Pa. The power companies — Atlantic City Electric Company, the Delaware Power and Light Company, Jersey Central Power and Light Company, Metropolitan Edison Company, New Jersey Power and Light Company, Pennsylvania Electric Company, and Philadelphia Electric Company — will use this modern computing device to help their engineers solve the many complex problems involved in maintaining and expanding power systems."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Effective development of management potential raises many questions and presents problems both to the individual and to the company. Not only must the individual make every effort to increase his effectiveness to his company, but the company also must have a definite program by which to guide and evaluate individual progress and development."
"The first large-scale television coverage of both national political conventions occurred last year in Chicago and this presented many new problems to the telephone company of that city. Special video conductors and amplifiers were used in eight of the 19 channels to the Amphitheatre and microwave facilities for the rest."
"THE RECENT REVISION of the American Standards Association Standard for Rotating Electrical Machinery, C50, short-circuit clause specifies requirements for synchronous generators during 3-phase, line-to-ground, and line-to-line short circuits. A generator operating at rated kilovolt-amperes and power factor, with fixed excitation at 5-per-cent overvoltage, must be able to withstand a 3-phase short circuit at its terminals. For line-to-ground short circuits, the maximum instantaneous current must not exceed that obtained under a 3-phase short circuit."
"No factor in accident prevention is more important than good supervision. The success of a safety activity, as well as most any other operating matter, will vary in proportion to the quality of supervision. Certain requirements are needed by the supervisor, not only to prevent accidents, but also to discharge his other obligations and responsibilities to his company, his customers, and his fellow workers."
"The work that has been done on power connectors for outdoor use with aluminum conductors is described and conclusions presented pertinent to the design and use of tin-plated copper alloy or aluminum power connectors."
"IN 1943, A 6,667-KW ELECTRONIC frequency changer, using mercury-arc rectifiers, was installed in the Gary Sheet and Tin Mill of the United States Steel Company, at Gary, Ind., to provide a nonsynchronous tie between the 25-cycle and 60-cycle power systems for the controlled flow of power in either direction. A non-synchronous interconnection had to be used because of the frequency variations on the 25-cycle system. In 1949 the capacity of the installation was increased to 16,000 kw by raising the capacity of the first unit to 8,000 kw and adding a second 8,000-kw unit. The installation has a 2-hour rating of 20,000 kw."
"Each year, Eta Kappa Nu honors outstanding young electrical engineers for meritorious service to their fellow men. This analysis of the backgrounds of the 259 candidates from 1936 to 1951 may help future aspirants to these awards in planning their own careers."
"THE PRESENCE OF COULOMB (or “rubbing”) friction in feedback control systems often results in undesirable effects, such as an operating dead-zone, low-frequency wander, and poor dynamic performance for low-level signals. In some systems, however, coulomb friction may have a stabilizing effect. This article describes a method of predicting the effect of coulomb friction on static and dynamic performance. Methods of introducing compensation are discussed for systems in which coulomb friction has an undesirable effect."
"THE IMPORTANCE OF CONTINUITY of service in modern power systems demands that current transformers for operation of meters and control devices be properly applied and designed to give high accuracy, trouble-free operation, and long life. Improved materials, new manufacturing techniques, and novel features of design are utilized in a new liquid-filled current transformer to meet these exacting requirements."
"A Subcommittee on Electrical Equipment of the Committee of Refinery Equipment of the American Petroleum Institute has been formed to write the rules of Recommended Good Practice for the refining industry. The aims of this group are of interest to designers, manufacturers, and installers of refinery equipment."
"THE TECHNICAL ADVANCES in the art of telegraphy, resulting in the fully automatic selective-switching system in a modern telegraph office, have necessitated major improvements in the wire and cable network, particularly in the mechanized communication centers, to insure efficiency of operation and dependability of the complex electronic equipment in continuous operation over a wide range of frequencies and operating conditions. In each of these centers, the proper functioning of the high-speed equipment is dependent upon the performance of some 3,000 miles of high-grade wire conductors and more than 1,000,000 intricate wire connections."
"Ideas and procedures utilized in the development and production of grain-oriented iron-silicon alloys are presented together with the chemical analysis and some properties of these materials. Data showing the large magnetic advantage of using the material parallel to the direction in which the alloy is rolled and indicating why transformer core designs have been influenced greatly by the development are also included."
"STEADY-STATE OR TRANSIENT STABILITY problems are not significant limitations on most power systems today. However, under some circumstances it is logical to split existing systems and perhaps add reactors to prevent costly increases in interrupting capacity of circuit breakers. It has become apparent recently that transient stability problems can readily develop if this approach is carried too far."
"The Type O carrier is an economical short-haul carrier system especially suitable for use under 150 miles. It fulfills the same purpose for open-wire lines as the Type N carrier system does in cable routes. Numerous laboratory tests have indicated that good service standards have been maintained in spite of its low cost."
"MANY FLUORINATED LIQUIDS have been made which are of potential interest to electrical engineers. They make available, for the first time, a group of properties not found in any presently used liquid dielectric. They are stable to high temperatures, water and chemical attack, are nonflammable and nonexplosive. Low power factor and low conductivity are characteristic. Advantage also can be taken of the volatile character of these materials. This results from the relatively low range of boiling points (56 to 178 degrees centigrade) found in the compounds which have been studied for electrical uses and the more volatile nature of fluorocarbons in general. This can be put to use in obtaining high vapor densities at relatively low temperatures thereby effecting such improvements as increasing the dielectric strength in the vapor phase. A high natural convection modulus also results which can give improved heat transfer from autoconvection. Good arc-extinguishing properties and low carbon formation from arcing also are found."
"THE USER OF ELECTRIC APPARATUS is constantly in need of information concerning the condition of insulation. This information, at the present time, is supplied by such tests as insulation resistance, power factor, capacitance, or by more severe tests such as “high-pot.” Unfortunately, none of these tests gives a true indication of the “health” of the dielectric, but rather indicate its present condition — a condition that may exist only temporarily and can be corrected by suitable action. It is important, of course, to have this information; however, it is of equal importance in many applications to have an indication of the useful life that can be expected from the dielectric at any time during its use."
"AT THE technical session on Systems Engineering of the AIEE Winter General Meeting in February 1949, the general problem of operating steam power plants was thoroughly reviewed. Three phases of operation were discussed as follows: 1. The general problem of fluctuating loads on power systems.1 2. Operation of steam turbines on fluctuating loads.2 3. Design of boilers and boiler control for fluctuating loads.3"
"THE EXACT NATURE OF THE MECHANISM of the high-current electric arc is not yet understood clearly even though the arc has been used and studied for the past century and a half. Much of the difficulty in the interpretation of arc data has been associated with the complexity of the test conditions. An example of this is found in much of the data reported on welding arcs∗∗∗ in air. Such arcs are drawn in an atmosphere composed of a mixture of several gases (some of which are very active chemically) with electrodes which are usually of complex metallic and chemical structure."
"As cost and reliability are critical factors in aircraft development, it is suggested here that simpler, more sturdy nonlinear electromagnetic servo controls should be considered. They can approximate closely the performance of a proportional type of control by the use of velocity feedback and power gains of up to 50 times in the magnetic servo clutch allow direct operation from the signal-sensing unit."
"The chemical industry's growth in the western states is evaluated on the basis of four criteria: raw materials, utility sources, human resources, and markets. The conclusion is reached that despite certain disadvantages the industry's future is very promising."
"NUMEROUS PROTECTIVE DEVICES HAVE been developed for and applied to power transformers. A new addition to this field is the sudden-pressure relay (SPR)."
"A discussion of the electrical properties of both the naturally occurring paper-forming inorganic materials and the synthetically prepared fine inorganic fibers is followed by a presentation of various applications."
"Application of Feedback Control systems has become so extensive that much engineering effort is spent in their evaluation and maintenance."
"THE ANALYTICAL APPROACH to the optimum design of permanent magnets which are subjected to demagnetizing effects is complicated by the fact that the slope of the minor hysteresis loops is not constant throughout the range of the main demagnetization curve. For some permanent-magnet materials, therefore, the slope variations are small, and a constant slope may be assumed without causing objectionable error to the design. For other materials however, as for instance the presently most widely used alloys of Alnico V and Alnico VI, the slope may vary considerably and hence will not justify such an assumption."
"The extensive research undertaken and the data obtained, which have resulted in a substantial saving in investment in electric power equipment throughout the Chicago system, are presented in some detail."
"The AIEE Summer General Meeting for 1953 will be held in Atlantic City, N. J., June 15–19, with headquarters at the Chalfonte-Haddon Hall Hotels. An outstanding technical program plus the facilities that make this site one of the country's foremost vacation spots should ensure a highly successful meeting and members who expect to attend should make their plans now. Arrangements also have been made to have at least 40 students from various engineering schools present as guests of the AIEE Philadelphia Section, sponsor of this year's Summer Meeting."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of March 19, 1953, recommended the following members for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections, signed by a member, must be furnished and will be treated as confidential. Applications for admission or re-election to Institute membership, in the grade of Member, have been received from the following candidates, and any member objecting to election should so notify the Secretary before May 25, 1953, or July 25, 1953, if the applicant resides outside of the United States, Canada, or Mexico."
"Installation of the first production model of International Business Machines' (IBM) newest and most powerful high-speed electronic calculator, the “701,” at the company's World Headquarters, New York, N. Y., was announced recently."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A new completely automatic teletype system designed to handle the heavy volume of communications necessary in the operations of a modern air line has been announced by American Airlines and the Long Lines Department of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company."
"Development of an “internal magnetic focus” gun which will permit the elimination of the external focus coil and ion trap magnet on television picture tubes was announced by the General Electric Company's Tube Department recently"
"Semiflexible, aluminum-sheathed Styroflex cable, made by Phelps Dodge Copper Products Corporation, is designed specially to meet the need for a high-power, gfiicient low-loss coaxial cable in the amplitudemodulation, frequency-modulation, television, and microwave fields. The cable reduces reflections, which cause ghost images in television and distortions in communications, to an absolute minimum"
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Two tables replacing Tables I and II on pages 9 and 10 of the paper \"Symbolic Programming\" by N. Rochester are provided. The crossed-out nubers and corrections shown below are properly part of the figures. With the figures as originally printed, portions of the paper were meaningless."
"Since the publication of the December 1952 issue, the IRE has authorized a revised publication plan for the Professional Groups, and we are starting a new volume for 1953 with a new green cover, better paper stock better printing, and plans for publishing on a four-times-a-year basis."
"All the high-speed arithmetic and control circuitry of an electronic digital computing machine to operate at a pulse repetition frequency of one megacycle can be built from just two types of etched-circuit plug-in packages. One contains a tube, a pulse transformer, and a set of germanium diode gates and buffers; the other contains lengths of electrical delay line and diode-resistor termination circuits. Complete flexibility of logical function is achieved through the wiring interconnecting the sockets, and the only additional requirements are the supply of clock pulses and of d-c power."
"Automatic calculators can be programmed to interpret programs which have been written with symbolic instead of actual addresses. This method allows the calculator to assume much of the clerical burden which must otherwise be borne by the programmer."
"ROBERT D. ELBOURN (S'40-A'41-M'48) was born in Indianapolis, Indiana, on October 5, 1919. He received the degrees BSEE in 1940 and MSEE in 1949 from Purdue University."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper presents a detailed analysis of regenerative loops in computing machines. Emphasis is placed upon the manifestation of this problem in an electronic analog computer wherein the detrimental effects of regenerative loops are most often reported. Regenerative loops are shown to arise when, in the physical system being considered, coupling occurs through an element capable of storing energy. The regenerative-loop gain is the deciding factor; an analysis of the effects of varying this loop gain in an attempt to stabilize the computing process is also presented. Results are verified for a simple problem by an electronic analog computer."
"A survey of existing lumped parameter and distributed parameter delay lines has shown that their maximum. storage capacity is about 23 pulses and 15 pulses respectively regardless of total delay time. An analysis of pulse transmission through distributed delay lines indicates that dissipation in the inductive elements is the chief factor limiting storage capacity. A method is proposed for decreasing this dissipation through the use of high-Q nickel zinc ferrites around straight conductors for inductive elements."
"Reliable electronic circuit design must account for the parameter variations over the normal life of components to insure satisfactory operation. An analytical design method is derived for an Eccles-Jordan triode flip-flop in which the “worst” condition of voltage and component tolerances conditions are assumed that assures satisfactory operation for normal conditions. The method of analysis is to divide the flip-flop circuit into separate parts, write appropriate equations, and solve them simultaneously. The design method results in the best configurations of component values, regardless of what tube may be used, and actually specifies characteristics which-the tube should have, as well as the expected life of the tube in terms of maximum plate resistance."
"J. REID ANDERSON (M'52) was born on May 17, in Wheeling, West Virginia. He received the A.B. degree from Denison. University in 1938, an M.S. degree in Physics in 1939 and an M.S. degree in Electrical Engineering in 1940, both from the University of Michigan. After graduation he joined Electrical Research Products Inc. in New York where he worked in the field of acoustics on noise and vibration studies, acoustic filters, and instrumentation for measuring noise and vibration. During World War II he served with the Navy as a minesweeping development officer."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"For some time it has been the standard practice in ordering most electronic components to specify a nominal value and a plus and minus tolerance. When these components are used in conjunction with others in electronic equipment, advantage is often taken by design engineers of the fact that the tolerances do not necessarily add up directly. For instance, if we have a circuit using three 1000-ohm plus-or-minus-10 per cent resistors in series, our total value of resistance might turn out to be as high as 3300 dims or as low as 2700 ohms. This of course could only happen when the three resistors were each at the high or each at the low end of the tolerance range."
"This article reviews and analyzes life-test results accumulated on “Special Red” tubes during the past four years. Data are presented on the range of major characteristics and the changes in these characteristics during the life of the tubes. This information will be of value to both the designer and the user of electronic equipment because it will provide data on the life expectancy and the range of anticipated performance variations."
"Reliable tubes is a subject that has received a lot of publicity in the electronics field during the last few years. Nobody will dispute that tube reliability is a “must” in our present and future defense weapons. The need for an Acceptance Inspection Manual — which outlines the inspection procedures for reliable tubes, is obvious. The Inspection Manual1 that I am discussing this afternoon, was developed for the acceptance inspection of JAN Reliable Tubes."
"In recent years the tremendous growth in the use of electronic devices in commercial and military operations has placed more emphasis on the quality and performance of electronic components. Heretofore, a large percentage of the electronics business has been concentrated in the entertainment field. Now, however, human lives and national defense are dependent upon electronics. Just as a chain is no stronger than its weakest link, electronic equipment is no better than its poorest component."
"Any engineer who has been faced with designing a piece of electronic equipment for industrial or military applications, where reliability of operation is of paramount importance, is probably familiar with the common failings of its essential element, the vacuum tube. Standard receiving types are made by the millions for radio and television and are expected to be replaced when they fail in the normal course of events. This same failure, however, in industrial applications may have serious consequences, either of a financial nature or even to the extent of endangering personnel. In the case of the commercial airlines, it became evident several years ago that even with all possible preventive maintenance, the percentage of unpredictable failures occurring in flight could not be tolerated. This was increasingly true as more electronic gear was added, such as glide-slope receivers, omni-range directional indicators, and automatic pilots, as well as the vital communication equipment."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"The symposium reported in this transaction was held as a part of the 1952 National Conference on Airborne Electronics. Mr. L. M. Sherer, Executive Secretary of the Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics served as Moderator. Panel members were:"
"The symposium this evening will be devoted to the operational phases of the Common System. The designation “Common System” is significant. It derives from the fact that it is designed to serve the common needs of all users of the airspace, both military and civil, and that its various elements are integrated to work together un a system basis. It must be remembered that the Common System is not intended to satisfy requirements which are peculiar to a particular branch of aviation such as, for example, the tactical requirements of the military services or the administrative communication requirements of the scheduled air carriers."
"I am both pleased and honored at this opportunity to discuss with you some aspects of the CAA plan for establishing and operating the Common System of Air Navigation and Traffic Control for the Federal Airways. The Common System — as its name implies — is a system of air navigation and traffic control that will be used in Common by all users of the airspace. It is not the result of any unilateral action on the part of CAA. Far from it. The plans were not developed by the CAA alone, or by just the Government agencies interested in aviation. The plans were not presented to the aviation industry and to the military on a take-it-or-leave-it basis! On the contrary, they were forged by aviation itself, with each segment and special interest represented in the give and take of the conference table."
"Mr. Lee, I understand you to indicate that CAA was planning to install the terminal VOR's at low intensity airports to serve as both a navigational aid and an approach aid, I had understood that this was something that the airlines were going to have to provide for themselves. Or is the CAA planning to install at certain areas and leave the airlines handle the other lover intensity terminal areas?"
"Thank you. I might prefix my remarks by saying that I feel a little bit like the pilot I overheard on communications down in Texas about three months ago immediately after the new international alphabet was announced as going to be introduced. He called in for traffic clearance and was trying to be as upto-date as he possibly could in everything and finally ended up by announcing that the number of aircraft was “4567 Romeo,” and in all the communications that he gave he did not really tell the communicator anything and I overheard the communicator call back and say “Where art thou, Romeo?” I had prepared somewhat of a paper when I came down here tonight and Just as I walked in Mr. Sherer handed me a new paper and said “Here, this is what you are going to talk about,” so I am saying “Where art thou, Romeo?”"
"Well, I, of course, can't help but agree with Cole that when a man is setting up there in the front office of an airplane, he would like to know whether the equipment is working or not. However, there must be some limit to which you can carry that sort of thinking because if you are going to say you have a checking system on the ground and then we say “now that is not good enough, we had better have one in the airplane” so then we have a checking system in the airplane and pretty soon someone says “Now let's have a checker to check the checker” and if we carry this too far, we eventually exceed some practical limit. I think there is a fine line between equipment design and practical considerations and so long as the design people thoroughly understand what happens when the guy in the front office starts to get bum instruments, we have got the problem half licked right there."
"Can a kid get a comment in here on the fail safe problem? I would like to suggest to you radar and electronics people that very often the making of a circuit fail safe involves a twist of the wrist. If you need a checking device to check a check device to check a checking device, etc., and so on, until the failure of the checking device then determines the reliability of the system rather than the basic component, that may sometimes be because you failed to put the twist of the wrist in there. Let me illustrate it by something that is out of the radar line all together. Suppose you want to check all the doors on a pressurized airplane. You could do that by sending a positive energy through a micro-switch at each one of the points you want to check and have the positive energy coming through any one of those switches to light a red light in the cockpit that tells the pilot there is a door open somewhere. Well, one of these switches could fail and that airplane could be operated for three months without anyone knowing that the switch was not operating properly. Whereas, if you put a loop circuit around all those switches they can be made to operate a green light to tell the pilot that the doors are all closed now. You added a twist of the wrist to the thing by the failure of the check circuit; it gives you the wording the same as the failure of the original equipment. I sort of kicked that in there but I couickrt help that. I haven't got much to add to this except that we are going through this test signal program as rapidly as we can. That applies to a basic signal on the ground with which you can test the unscrambling qualities of the airborne receiver and at least determine whether it is operating correctly."
"I would like to say a few words as a member of the flying public. For these purposes I have perfect arrangements. I would like to make sure that we don't lose sight of the forest for the trees. I mean the real problem before us Is to land an airplame no matter what the weather is; and we are very very far away from that. Just yesterday I tried to leave Boston to get here by plane and I found all American Airlines flights cancelled into New York. One flight going into Idlewlld, and my flight out of New York, of course, could not be connected with and I had to take the train. This still happens way too often. I hear about improvements, but when I originally read the CAA Specification for the instrument landing system (at that time in 1938) I thought an instrument landing was a device to land planes without any visibility whatever of course we cannot claim that yet and still I think that we should take the bull by the horns sooner or later and postulate what our real problem is. I would like to emphasize that this primary problem is being able to detect an airplane and being able to land it without any visibility whatever, each and every time and safely. We must admit that we are very very far from having an adequate solution."
"Lew, I would like to add one thing that stuck in my memory pretty much which was Sam Saint's remark in regard to this matter of multicontrol ground control sectors. That to me is a rather simple problem. Is there any reason in the world why that particular problem couldn't be solved by a matter of ground aided transmission links which impose no penalty on the aircraft radio at all?"
"I would like to ask a question of Mr. Lee. What, if any, type of development work is being done on ILS approach as far as flare-out is concerned?"
"The contact potential (c.p.) and the change of contact potential with illumination (Δc.p.)L of several germanium surfaces have been measured. The reference electrode used was platinum. It was found that the c.p. could be cycled between two extremes about 0.5 volts apart by changing the gaseous ambient. Ozone or peroxide vapors gave the c.p. extreme corresponding to the largest dipole at the Ge surface. Vapors with OH radicals produced the other extreme. There is a one to one correlation between c.p. and (Δc.p.)L. For 12-ohm cm n-type Ge (Δc.p.)L was large and positive when the surface dipole was largest, decreased to zero and became slightly negative as the surface dipole decreased to its smallest value. The variation for 12-ohm cm p-type Ge was just opposite as regards both sign and dependence on surface dipole. The surface recombination velocity was found to be independent of c.p. For a chemically prepared surface it was 50–70 cm/sec and 180–200 cm/sec for n and p-type surfaces respectively. A theory is given that explains the results in terms of surface traps, Na per cm2 donor-type traps near the conduction band and Bb per cm2 acceptor-type traps near the filled band. A quantitative fit with experiment is obtained with only one free parameter. The results are direct evidence for the existence of a space charge layer at the free surface of a semiconductor."
"The various factors affecting the usability of mobile radio channels are discussed, and estimates are obtained for the number of usable channels per megacycle for several present and proposed methods of operation. The lack of radio-frequency selectivity is the principal barrier to maximum frequency economy, but this difficulty can be avoided by sufficient geographical and operational coordination."
"Intermodulation interference becomes a serious factor in frequency usage when a block of consecutive channels is provided for a given type of radio service in a confined area. Formulas are presented which show the number of potentially interfering 3rd and 5th order intermodulation products that can be formed in a band of n consecutive channels. The probability of encountering interference when a number of operating channels are picked at random from this band of n channels is developed and the number of interference free operating channels that can be obtained by careful selection in this same band is also derived."
"Magnetic resonance is the name of a phenomenon discovered less than sixteen years ago, which from the start has had a high theoretical importance and is now attaining a notable practical valve. Nuclear magnetic resonance occurs when a substance containing magnetic nuclei is exposed to crossed magnetic fields, one being steady and the other oscillating, and the strength of the former field and the frequency of the latter are matched in a particular way. When these are properly matched, the nuclei are turned over in the steady field, and energy is absorbed from the oscillating field. Another way of describing the effect is to say that resonance occurs when the applied frequency is equal to the frequency of precession of the nuclei in the steady field. This phenomenon illustrates very clearly some of the fundamental laws of Nature. For the purposes of nuclear physics it is used to determine the magnetic moments of nuclei and their relaxation-times in the substance that contains them. It is also used for chemical analysis, for measurement of magnetic fields, for analysis of crystal structure and for locating changes of phase of the substance containing the nuclei. Magnetic resonance of electrons is similar, but for a fundamental reason is confined almost exclusively to free atoms of certain kinds, to ferromagnetic substances and to certain strongly paramagnetic salts. For these last it serves to throw light on the fields prevailing within the crystals."
"This paper presents curves and tables for the probability of delay of calls served by a simple trunk group with assignment of delayed calls to the trunks at random and with pure chance call input. These are contrasted with the classic results of Erlang (“Erlang C”) which are based on service in order of arrival. Trunk holding times for both have an exponential distribution. The theoretical development for computation of the curves is directed to the determination of the moments, which seem to be a natural means of simplification."
"This paper offers a review and interpretation of laboratory and field experiments aimed at determining the necessary protective threshold Quantities of wood preservatives. It details the procedure followed in the soil-block tests at the Bell Telephone Laboratories, Incorporated. Discussion of specific criticisms of the techniques involved and replies to these criticisms are included. The paper also presents for the first time a correlation of the results obtained from soil-block culture tests, outdoor exposure tests on stakes and on pole-diameter posts as well as pole line experience. It demonstrates that the same levels for toxicity-permanence requirements (thresholds) are obtained from the three different types of accelerated experimental evaluations. There is every reason to believe that the same limits apply for the outer inch of sap-wood in pine poles in line."
"This paper applies the Boltzmann method of gaseous kinetics to the problem of charged particles moving through a gas under the influence of a static, uniform electric field. The particle density is assumed to be vanishing low, and the ion-atom collisions are assumed elastic, but the field is taken to be strong; that is the energy which it imparts to the charges is not assumed negligible in comparison to thermal energy. In Part I, the formal framework of such a theory is built up; the motion in the field is describable by the drift velocity concept, and the smoothing out of density variations as an anisotropic diffusion process. In Part II, the “high field” case is treated in detail; this is the case, for which thermal motion of the gas molecules is negligible; the equation is solved completely for the case that the mean free time between collisions may be treated as independent of speed; complete solutions are also presented for extreme mass ratios of the ions and the molecules; special attention is given to the case of equal masses, which has to be handled by numerical methods. In Part III, information about the “intermediate field” case is collected; with the help of a convolution theorem the case of constant mean free time is solved; beyond this, only the case of small ion mass (electrons) is available. In Part IV, the diffusion process, whose existence was proved in Part I, is pushed through to numerical results. Part V discusses the scope of the results achieved and demonstrates the possibility of extending them semiquantitatively beyond their original range."
"Clogston has discovered that if a conductor is properly laminated, there exists a particular phase velocity along the conductor for maximum penetration of the fields and minimum loss due to skin effect. An experimental coaxial line was constructed whose center conductor was laminated and whose phase velocity could be varied by changing the dielectric constant of the main dielectric. As predicted by theory, the measured attenuation was critically dependent upon phase velocity. With optimum phase velocity the attenuation, though greater than predicted by theory, was less than that of a conventional coaxial cable of the same dimensions and same main dielectric. A theoretical analysis of the experimental laminated conductor is described in an append x."
"The articles in this issue are devoted to different phases of the development of a new system for the transmission and utilization of broader frequency bands on existing or new coaxial cables. This new system, which is called the L3 carrier system, represents the latest phase of development activities begun in the late twenties. It permits far more intensive exploitation of the cable medium than its predecessor, affording the option of providing, in each direction on a pair of coaxial tubes, either 1860 telephone channels or 600 telephone channels and a 4.2 megacycle broadcast television channel."
"The L3 coaxial system is a new broadband facility for use with existing and new coaxial cables. It makes possible the transmission of 1,860 telephone channels or 600 telephone channels and a television channel in each direction on a pair of coaxial tubes. The principal system design problems and the methods used in their solution are described. The over-all system is described in terms of its components and their location in the system."
"The equalization and regulation problems of the L3 system are described and a theory of equalisation of complex systems is outlined. The location and function of the various equalizers are explained including the roles and design of the various fixed, dynamic and manual equalizer networks. The analog computer used in the regulation system is described together with the cosine-equalizer adjusting technique used with manual equalizers. Finally the circuits and operation of the regulation system and its components are presented."
"The line amplifiers for the L3 coaxial system are designed to compensate for the loss of the four miles of cable which separate the repeaters; the flat amplifiers are used to compensate for equalizer loss and as transmitting amplifiers. The two types are basically similar, consisting of two feedback amplifiers in tandem separated by an inter-amplifier network; in the line amplifier this network is variable and is automatically adjusted to compensate for variations in cable temperature and for small deviations from the nominal four-mile spacing. Coupling networks employing high-precision transformers are used to connect the amplifers to the coaxial cable through the required power separation filters. The low impedance windings of the transformers are center-tapped and a balancing network provided in order to match the cable impedance over the transmitted frequency band. The amplifiers are equipped with plug-in tubes of high figure of merit which were developed for this application. A double-triode output stage is used to obtain improved system signal-to-noise performance. Provision is made for preventive maintenance of vacuum tubes and for a controlled adjustment of gain on an in-service basis. All important components of the amplifier are subject to quality control procedures to assure that the average gain of groups of amplifiers will be held within narrow limits and that individual amplifiers will form a normal distribution around the average. This approach is essential in order to meet system equalization and signal-to-noise objectives. Careful mechanical design and rigid control of the mechanical aspects of manufacture are necessary to minimize gain variations which might be caused by variations of parasitic circuit elements and unwanted feedback effects. Special measures were required to keep the temperature rise within the sealed die-cast housing within tolerable values."
"Television terminals are required at circuit ends of the L3 coaxial system; at the transmitting end to condition video signals for carrier transmission and at the receiving end to detect the transmitted signals. Special signal characteristics, e.g., a degree of modulation which exceeds the value commonly referred to as 100 per cent modulation, require departures from standard modulating and detecting processes. The high degree of modulation requires both careful control of transmitted wave form and at the receiver product demodulation with phase synchronous carrier (homodyne detection). Carrier regeneration requirements result in the choice of one step frequency translation from the video frequency spectrum to the allocated vestigial sideband carrier spectrum. The one step process using a single modulator results in unusual balance requirements for the modulator itself and an unusual circuit configuration. Transmission quality objectives for the terminals are such as to permit six pairs of television terminals to operate in tandem in a transcontinental circuit. This permits a degree of interconnecting flexibility in operation with other systems, e.g., L1 coaxial or microwave systems. These objectives place severe requirements upon the transmission stability of various filters and other circuits within the terminals. New network techniques both in design and fabrication are brought to bear in the effort to achieve required performance. The transmitting and receiving terminals are described, illustrating the functional operation and mechanical and electrical arrangements of the equipment."
"Economic solution of the equalization problem in the L3 system required limitation of the excursions of the transmission characteristics from the design center. To implement this, a pattern of distribution requirements for component elements of the system was worked out utilizing basic quality control techniques. An analysis of the several methods employed is presented with particular emphasis on the intent of the choices which were made and the operating characteristics of the resulting procedures. One of the novel features is the three-cell selection method which insures that the product delivered has the kind of distribution that is wanted even while the process is in trouble distribution-wise."
"The application of quality control procedures, in addition to conventional maximum and minimum limits, is an important factor in the manufacture of components for the L3 carrier repeaters. In this application, control chart techniques are used for providing assurance that the average of each characteristic subject to control is held close to a desired value and that, collectively, individual units have a desired distribution about this average value. The three-cell method is frequently used under certain conditions encountered in the manufacture of these components when sampling procedures cannot be applied. This method consists of measuring each unit of product, classifying conforming units into one of three cells and the selection of groups of five units each to provide the desired distribution. Case histories of a number of factory applications of these methods are presented."
"Negative ion production in SF6 has been studied in a mass spectrometer; SF6−, SF5−, SF2−, F- were identified. The SF6− and SF5− are produced in very large quantities by a resonance capture process at an electron energy of about 2 ev, and are formed in approximately equal amounts. At higher electron energies, the same capture occurs by a secondary process, in which low energy electrons released by other excitation and ionization processes suffer the resonance capture. Partial dissociation after electron capture accounts for the appearance of F- and F2− ions below 16 ev. Above this energy, other processes will also produce these ions. Possible explanations of the primary resonance capture mechanism are discussed."
"This paper describes the use of ferrite materials as cores for inductors and develops methods for taking maximum advantage of their properties in the design of inductors for communication circuits."
"In order to study the traffic-carrying characteristics of the No. 5 crossbar switching system, a machine has been built to simulate the operation of the system. This machine, known as a throwdown machine, is controlled by a team of four operators. Its input is a statistically accurate representation of telephone traffic and its output is a detailed record of the course of each call through the system. This paper discusses the design principles of the throwdown machine, its operation, and the type of results obtained."
"Working curves of delays for waiting calls served at random are given for a considerable range of loads and group sizes. Exponential holding time calls are assumed originating at random, and served by a simple group of paths. Results of a number of throwdown tests are given to illustrate the effect on call delays of several modes of service, and particularly of service on a random basis. For random service, these results verify the theory recently developed by J. Riordan; perhaps more interestingly they show the effects on delays of certain blends of queued and random service which approximate methods of handling delayed calls in practical use (such as gating and limited storage circuits). The use of random and queued delay theory is illustrated by a number of examples. To remind the reader that these results are not limited to telephony, department store and vehicular traffic problems are included."
"Magnetic resonance of electrons is the analogue of magnetic resonance of nuclei, treated in the first part of this article. Though the analogy is close and the fundamental laws are identical, the two topics are remarkably different in detail. Though electrons are the commonest of particles, they display magnetic resonance only in somewhat exceptional cases. In many free atoms and most solid and liquid substances, magnetic resonance is suppressed by what is known as the “anti-parallel coupling” of electrons two by two. The exceptional cases are those of certain free atoms, ferromagnetic substances, and a restricted class of strongly paramagnetic substances; the resonance has also been observed very lately for the conduction electrons in metals. In the cases in which it does occur, resonance is likely to occur at a frequency or frequencies very different from that which the elementary theory predicts. This is sometimes because of the orbital motions of the electrons, oftener mainly because of the electric and magnetic fields existing in solids, and the deviations of the observed cases from the ideal case shed light upon these fields."
"This paper describes a method of designing arrays of crosspoints for use in telephone switching systems in which it will always be possible to establish a connection from an idle inlet to an idle outlet regardless of the number of calls served by the system."
"This paper offers a review and interpretation of laboratory and field experiments aimed at determining the necessary protective threshold quantities of wood preservatives. It details the procedure followed in the soil-block tests at Bell Telephone Laboratories, Incorporated. Discussion of specific criticisms of the techniques involved and replies to these criticisms are included. The paper also presents for the first time a correlation of the results obtained from soil-block culture tests, outdoor exposure tests on stakes and on pole-diameter posts as well as pole line experience."
"The heterodyne method permits measurements over wide frequency bands with the standards operating at a fixed frequency. The accuracy of such measurements depends upon the performance of heterodyne conversion transducers or converters. Design principles are derived to maximize linearity and dynamic range and minimize zero corrections. These principles have been applied to point-to-point and sweep measurements of delay, phase, transmission, and impedance."
"In the telephone plant during the course of a single year, the operation of connecting a wire to a metal terminal is carried out approximately one billion times. Many of these connections are made in the factory. Others are made during the installation of equipment and a substantial number are made in the course of normal operation of the telephone plant. Successful functioning of the plant depends on trouble-free performance of each of these connections, most of which are now soldered in accordance with long-standing practice. Recently, a new technique for joining wires to terminals has been developed which will have important technical and economic advantages in the Bell System and which should have similar advantages in other fields."
"In the search for a better way of connecting wires to apparatus terminals a new joining method has been discovered. The new method not only eliminates soldering and its hazards but also reduces cost, improves quality and conserves space. In contrast to the solder joint which depends largely on human judgement and skill, the new connection is made with a calibrated tool. A degree of uniformity has been obtained which virtually eliminates the need for product inspection. The trend toward smaller apparatus and automation may now be further intensified due to the use of this new method of making electrical connections."
"In order to study the stresses and strains occurring in a solderless wrapped connection, a photoelastic technique using photoelastic bakelite and a photoplastic technique using polyethylene have been used. Polyethylene has a stress strain curve similar to a metal and can be used to investigate strains in the plastic region. Using these techniques, it is shown that the connection is held together by the hoop stress in the wrapping wire. In order to lock this in, a dissymmetry from a circular form has to occur. This may be in the direction of an oval shape or a square or rectangular shape. Sharp corners are preferred since a more definite contact area results. A number of rules are derived for constructing the most satisfactory solderless wrapped connection. It is shown that the connection between the wire and terminal is intimate enough to permit solid stale diffusion, but the strains are not high enough to cause cold welding of the connection. The life of the joint depends on the twin processes of stress relaxation and self diffusion. Stress relaxation occurs at a rate such that half the hoop stress is relaxed in 2500 years at room temperature. This loss of stress is compensated by the diffusion of one part of the joint into the other. Since the activation energies for stress relaxation and self diffusion are approximately equal for most metals, the two effects complement each other and produce a connection which should remain unchanged for limes in excess of forty years under any likely ambient conditions."
"In the development of solderless wrapped connections the basic requirements of electrical and mechanical stability have been translated into test requirements on laboratory samples of these connections and on the manufactured product. These tests have shown that the connections can withstand satisfactorily the effects of corrosion, humidity, vibration, and relaxation. The effects of terminal dimensions, materials, corner sharpness, wrapping tool construction, etc. are noted."
"A telephone set known as the 500 type has been in production for Bell System use for some time.1 The successful outcome of an intensive study has made it possible to simplify the circuit and some of the components of this set, and thereby to increase dependability and life and significantly to reduce the manufacturing cost. This change now has been completed and telephone sets embodying the necessary modifications are in production. This paper discusses some of the problems involved in this work and outlines the improvements which have been effected. Presented also is information concerning the superior performance of the 500 set over the preceding telephone set when used in noisy locations."
"Moisture entering faults in the insulation of subscriber lines provides so-called “leakage” paths which reduce the insulation resistance. Testing the insulation resistance of all lines under the environmental conditions which tend to produce these leakages is a maintenance technique, relatively new, for detecting the insulation defects. The faults can then he corrected before they become serious enough to affect the customers' service. Subscriber reports are thereby reduced and the correction of the faults on a preventive maintenance basis tends toward a more uniform work load for the repair personnel. Rapid testing of the lines is necessary, otherwise the environmental conditions may change and the leakages will disappear without detection. Rapid line insulation testing is practiced quite generally in all the switching systems throughout the Bell System, but the testing arrangements used are wholly or partially manually controlled in the testing and recording operations. While the benefits derived from rapid line insulation testing apply to all systems alike, this article is confined to a discussion of the entirely automatic testing and recording arrangements which are now being introduced in the No. 1 and No. 5 crossbar systems."
"A magnetic field will influence the current noise in a germanium filament. This fact bears out the hypothesis that at least part of the noise arises from minority carriers emitted in random bursts and recombining at the surfaces. A quantitative theory of this effect is given."
"This paper contains an analysis of the dc field intensity distribution in an idealized one-dimensional n-intrinsic-p semi-conductor configuration biased in reverse. It gives some quantitative insight into the progressive penetration of the field into the intrinsic region as the magnitude of the bias voltage is increased."
"The transmission properties of ideal laminated conductors of the Clogston type are discussed by introducing the concepts of equivalent inductance, capacitance and resistance values which are analogous to their corresponding counterparts in the treatment of ordinary transmission lines. From these constants the attenuation, phase constant, and speed of propagation are obtained using conventional transmission line theory, and the results compared with those for ordinary coaxial conductors. This paper is divided into two parts. In the first part a general discussion is given of Clogston cables and a comparison made with the conventional coaxial cable. This is illustrated with a few numerical examples, based on formulas which are developed in the second part of this paper."
"The theory of a coupled resonator reflex klystron is developed and its reduction to practice described. This tube differs from the conventional reflex klystron in that its performance characteristic is derived from the interaction between the electronic admittance due to a bunched electron stream and the input admittance of two synchronously tuned, coupled resonators. As a result: (1) power output can be made to be substantially flat over the greater part of the electronic tuning range; (2) the half-power electronic tuning range of the coupled resonator reflex klystron is more than twice that of a klystron using the same electron optical system but interacting with a single resonator; and (3) modulation linearity may be obtained over a greatly increased frequency swing. A reduction in power output of about 3db occurs for a secondary resonator Q and coupling coefficient adjustment designed to yield a maximum flat band or maximum electronic tuning while a much smaller reduction in output power will provide a substantial improvement in modulation linearity."
"The small signal ac transmission characteristics of junction transistors are derived from physical structure and bias conditions. Effects of minority carrier flow and of depletion layer capacitances arc analyzed for a one dimensional model. The ohmic spreading resistance of the base region of a three dimensional model is then approximated. Short circuit admittances representing minority carrier flow, depiction layer capacitances, and ohmic base resistance elements are then combined into an equivalent circuit. Theoretical calculations are compared to observations for two typical designs."
"This paper covers the design and performance of an oscillator using a transistor, in the multifrequency pulsing of digital information over telephone transmission media. The frequencies used are in the range from 700 to 1700 cycles per second."
"Since Hogan's* exposition of the extreme usefulness of the microwave Faraday effect numerous other laboratories have begun investigating propagation through ferrites and have made significant contributions to the art. In view of the tremendous interest which is being accorded this work this paper has been prepared to summarize some of the observations and developments to date. The plane wave theory is reviewed briefly with special attention being given to the mechanisms by which power is absorbed by the ferrite. The plane wave theory is then modified to describe various waveguide effects. Finally experimental procedures and results are presented to illustrate the theory and to provide general information regarding the design of devices employing these effects."
"Cold cathode gas filled tubes have been extensively applied as electronic switching elements in the telephone system. In general, these applications have been limited to control circuits. The usefulness of these tubes can be further extended by making them capable of carrying voice frequency signals. The transmission properties that are required of the tube for this use are considered. It is shown that troublesome oscillatory noise can be eliminated and that the insertion loss of the tube can be reduced to a low value. Furthermore, by a special design of cathode a stable insertion gain of a few db may be realized. Other requirements on bandwidth, power and distortion are satisfactorily met. Thus, these tubes are potentially useful in coordinate type switches in which voice frequency signals must be rapidly switched."
"A new type of relay making use of solid contacts maintained continuously wet with mercury has been developed. It has a symmetrical polar structure, resulting in improved sensitivity and speed compared with the existing neutral structure with similar contacts. It is also particularly well adapted to switching of high frequency circuits. Two magnets are used for polarization, and the relay is adjusted after assembly to desired values of sensitivity for operation in both forward and reverse directions by selective adjustment of the magnet strengths."
"A sampling switch with adjustable make and fixed break times can be used to obtain dynamic measurements of reciprocating phenomena. A test set has been developed using this principle to measure the flux-time, current-time, displacement-time, and velocity-time response of electromagnets and similar devices. The tested device is steadily cycled. A dc instrument is switched in by the synchronous control at any preselected instant in the cycle, and out when a steady reference condition has been reached. The steady reading of the instrument is proportional to the value, at the closure instant, of the variable being measured. The instrument switching is controlled by an electronic timing system. This system operates mercury contact relays, which do the actual switching. For the displacement-time and velocity-time measurements, an optical transducer with associated dc amplifiers is added. The design of these devices is described. The results of an investigation of dynamic flux rise and decay in solid core electromagnets arc reported. Modified first approximation equations are developed to give a better representation of eddy current effects."
"Selection of the proper selenium rectifier stacks for best results in the design of dc power supplies involves consideration of characteristics not ordinarily found in published data. This paper describes the data required for the selection of selenium cell sizes and cell combinations, shows typical voltage-current characteristics, and gives the results of extensive life test data necessary for evaluating the life expectancy of the product. The life test data indicate that there are substantial differences in the life expectancy of selenium stacks as manufactured by various companies in this country. Shorter life can be anticipated as the rms cell voltage ratings arc increased. In addition, the life is affected by the current density and the temperature at which the selenium cells are operated."
"Results are presented of an experimental study of the characteristics of the short arc in air which is the major cause of contact erosion in telephone switching circuits. Measurements were made of the arc initiation voltage, the voltage drop across the arc and the minimum arcing current. The following are the main conclusions: (1) For “normal” contacts in air, the arc is initiated at a constant field strength of a few million volts/cm up to separations of about 2–3 mean free paths of an electron in air. At larger separations the arc is initiated at the well known spark breakdown potentials of air. In vacuum the linear relation holds for larger separations followed by a transition into a square root relation Vai = K(d)1/2. (2) For “clean” contacts in air, no constant field strength line is obtained for separations as low as 1600Å. Instead, the arc is initiated at the spark breakdown potentials of air, possibly due to adsorbed air molecules or due to breakdown along a longer path at the Paschen's minimum potential. In vacuum, it is speculated that the above square root relation will hold. (3) For “activated” contacts and small separations the arc is initiated at a constant field strength of about 0.6 × 106 volts/cm. (4) For “normal” contacts the minimum arcing current increases with an increase in the maximum current during the arc due to surface contaminations and the arc cleaning action. (5) For arc currents above 1.5 ampere and energies of the order of thousands of ergs the cathode determines the arc characteristics."
"A survey of existing lumped parameter and distributed parameter delay lines has shown that their maximum storage capacity is about 23 pulses and 15 pulses respectively regardless of total delay time. An analysis of pulse transmission through distributed delay lines indicates that dissipation in the inductive elements is the chief factor limiting storage capacity. A method is proposed for decreasing this dissipation through the use of high Q nickel zinc ferrites around straight conductors for inductive elements."
"At the 1952 Minneapolis summer meeting of the A.I.E.E. a symposium* on the nationwide toll switching plan went into such features as the fundamental plant layout, numbering plan, toll switching and automatic accounting equipments. The present paper is intended to round out this coverage of the plan with a further discussion of the transmission features."
"Nationwide operator and customer dialing requires the existence of a number of switching centers equipped with automatic systems having a much higher order of mechanical “Intelligence” than previous systems. One of the most important components of this new switching system is the Card Translator. Its function is to take the telephone address of a call and determine how to advance this call toward that address. This translator has to meet unique requirements in that it must accommodate a very large number of addresses; must provide a great amount of information for routing the calls; and must enable quick and convenient changes to be made in its stored information. It must also meet, of course, the normal basic requirements of reliability, economy, long life, etc. The fundamental principle of this translator is that of a card file, containing individual coded cards for each destination, with routing information recorded on each card. Whenever the routing information for a specific code is needed, the, system, selects the appropriate card, and reads the information by means of electronic circuits employing phototransistors and transistor amplifiers."
"Telephone drop wire is that familiar black overhead wire which brings the telephone service to the home. It is a parallel pair of conductors separated and positioned in an extruded insulation, covered by a cotton serving and jacketed with a neoprene compound of tire tread-like qualities. In the past, a cast copper jacketed steel ingot, rolled and drawn to size, has been used to provide a wire that combines high strength and good conductivity. In order to assure more than a single source of supply and to provide improved mechanical and electrical characteristics, a completely new plant has been constructed for continuous plating of steel wire at completed size. This process provides a stronger, yet smaller and, therefore, less costly wire than was possible previously. Plating is done at 100 feet per minute on 25 wires simultaneously. The conductor is then processed as formerly to provide the neoprene jacketed drop wire."
"Diode gates, which are the body of modern pulse communication and computing devices, are discussed. Methods of analysis, by which practical first order design is possible, are given with experimental verification. The general properties of the gates, both virtues and defects, are noted and methods shown for minimizing the defects."
"At a result of new developments, the classical concepts of magnetic materials, characterized by hysteresis loss and eddy currents, are no longer adequate. Study of the ferrites has revealed new and important magnetic phenomena. These materials, because of their high resistivities and correspondingly low eddy currents, exhibit useful magnetic properties at frequencies well above those at which magnetic alloys are applicable. This paper reviews the new phenomena — domain wall motion and dimensional effects in the low megacycle region, and ferromagnetic resonance and the Faraday effect in the microwave region — and relates them to modern theory. Some possible microwave applications are discussed briefly."
"An analog device has been constructed which displays short term correlation as a three-dimensional plot in which the rectangular coordinates are running time and lag time and the intensity of the pattern represents the correlation function. Preliminary tests on the properties of such a device are reported."
"The results of two months of comprehensive frequency-sweep measurements of selective fading in the band between 3750 and 4190 mc over a radio relay path in Iowa are reported. An abridgement of the data, general conclusions derived from the data and an example of the use of the data in connection with frequency diversity measures for radio relay systems are given."
"This paper discusses methods of measuring shock and vibratory accelerations to which electron tubes may be subjected in various equipments, and the influence of these disturbances on the performance of the tubes. An outline is given of the design problems connected with the elimination of tube damage or faulty operation of tubes under adverse shock or vibration conditions, and of the methods used for simulating these conditions by means of production test machines and test methods."
"This is a presentation of a theory for the mechanism of the initiation of the short arc commonly observed on the closure and opening of electrical contacts. The theory is based on the experimental evidence that an established arc is generally preceded by a period of local high frequency discharges at the contacts. During this period the circuit current builds up. If and when this current reaches the arc initiation current of the contact a steady arc is established. It is shown that this initiation period of the arc is directly determinable from the circuit conditions and the contact condition. This mechanism furnishes rather simple explanations to some complex phenomena commonly observed before the establishment of the arc. The mechanism of the initiation of an individual discharge, however, still remains uncertain."
"The physical properties of polyethylene are such as to make it attractive for many wire insulating applications, particularly in multi-conductor communications cables. This article presents certain factual information relating to new types of multi-conductor cables having extruded polyethylene insulation, and describes briefly their initial installation in working telephone plant. The literature is replete with information on the physical and chemical properties and the behavior of polyethylene, so no attempt is made to explore the quality of the material per se. Polyethylene insulation extruded in the form of both solid material and foam to impart certain desired electrical properties is discussed. In a broad sense this article may be considered as announcing an important new insulating material for telephone cables which may be expected eventually to have very extensive applications in the Bell System plant."
"In this paper the problem of the line shape in paramagnetic resonance when large exchange interaction is present is discussed from the standpoint of a simplified mathematical model. The mathematical model can be called the model of “random frequency modulation”: It is assumed that the atom absorbs a single frequency, which varies over a distribution determined by the dipolar local fields, but that this frequency varies randomly in time at a rate determined by the exchange interactions. The predicted line shape in the case in which exchange is large is of resonance type in the observable center of the line, but falls off more rapidly in the wings. This line shape has been verified experimentally in a number of cases. This conclusion seems quite independent of any assumption about the type of random frequency modulation, etc."
"I Owe The Following Remarks, Which Help To Complete The Record, To Emile Vaulot: 1. The Erlang Formula For Delay With Order of Arrival Service, For The Proof of Which Reference Has Been Made To A Paper By E. C. Molina, Was Proved Earlier By E. Vaulot (Application Du Calcul Des Probabilités A L'Exploitation Telephonique. Revue Générale De L'Electricité, 16, pp. 411–418, 1924). Indeed His Seems To Be The First Proof."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The development of the transistor is undoubtedly one of the most significant contributions in the field of electronic components. Many organizations have established extensive projects for the development of transistor circuits, and practical applications will certainly be reported in increasing numbers in the near future. In order to lay the foundation for transistor circuit development at the Stanford Research Institute, an internally-sponsored project was initiated in December 1951 for investigation of the characteristics of point-contact transistors. Some of the results of the work of that project are presented in this paper."
"Theory is presented for a traveling-wave (or other wave) tube oscillator, with emphasis on the maximum range of electronic tuning which can be obtained. Experimental data on two traveling-wave tube-oscillators is given. A very simple arrangement consisting of a traveling-wave tube with feedback through an external path which includes a transmission cavity filter yields a tuning range of 4 to 8 percent with changes in helix voltage, according to theory. 4.5 percent has actually been obtained. The tube should be short since relative mode separation is of the order of half the reciprocal of the number of periods about the complete feedback loop. It should also have a high gain per unit length since the total electronic tuning range is estimated to be of the order of three-fourths the Pierce gain parameter C. Normal dispersion in the tube or external path acts to decrease mode separation; dispersion unavoidably associated with a transmission cavity filter has been included in the above figures and reduces the tuning range to about three-fourths what it would be with a hypothetical dispersion-free circuit. A more general analysis in terms of the transmission parameters of the system in matrix form is included."
"The Rack-Llewellyn-Pierce noise analysis,6,10,12,13 which has been applied to the problem of microwave noise in electron beams of large transit angle, utilizes the sinusoidal solutions for a space-charge-limited, infinite parallel plane diode, as derived by Llewellyn3 and Smullin,11 in the gun region and Ramo's solution for the lowest mode of a finite beam confined by an infinite longitudinal magnetic field in the drift space.8 In this calculation the input boundary condition which must be specified is the velocity modulation at the cathode. This was calculated by Rack7 as the mean square fluctuation of the instantaneous average velocity of all electrons crossing the plane of the potential minimum."
"One means of increasing vacuum tube life and at the same time decrease filament power supply requirements, heat dissipation problems, and d-c drift, is to operate the vacuum tube with reduced filament supply voltage. If the tube is operating well below temperature saturation, which is the case for the majority of circuits other than power amplifiers, the effect of reduced filament power will be to decrease the initial velocity of electrons emitted from the cathode. This reduces the magnitude of the charge at the virtual cathode, and increases the charge density at the grid, which decreases the velocity of electron flow through the grid. By creating an imaginary cathode, called an image cathode, which is located behind the real cathode, and defined as the plane from which the electrons appear to be emitted, the principles of electrostatics can be applied to determine the effect of lowered cathode temperature upon amplification factor. As the cathode temperature decreases, the charge of the virtual cathode decreases, and the distance from the real cathode to the image cathode decreases. The apparent grid to cathode distance has thus been decreased and amplification factor goes up. This is experimentally verified by tests on a 6C4 triode and a 6AG5 pentode. The effects of decreasing filament voltage upon μ, rp, and Gm are plotted. It is shown that μ increases, rp increases, and Gm decreases. The actual gain that may be achieved in a voltage amplifier increases. Increases in gain of 1.5 times have been measured when the filament voltage was decreased from 6.3 volts to 3.0 volts."
"By introducing the equations of gas motion and the notions of temperature and pressure of an electron gas, Hahn(1) arrived at certain modifications of the equations of electron current in diodes obtained by Langmuir(2). In deriving his results Hahn assumed that the temperature of the electron gas remains constant: T = const.; (1) moreover, he assumed the law of perfect gases between the pressure and temperature: n = k n T, (2) where n is the number of electrons per unit volume and k is Boltzmann's constant, to apply to an electron cloud."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper briefly discusses the possibility of obtaining coherent microwave radiation from crystals and gases. It will be shown that it is possible to obtain coherent microwave radiation by such methods, provided that a certain non equilibrium energy distribution is first produced. Methods are discussed for producing such a distribution. The amount of amplification which can be produced by such methods is very small Tinder ordinary circumstances and does not appear to be able to compete with other methods. The method may have certain special applications."
"This paper discusses the transient response of junction transistors. The experimental results are compared with the theoretical relationships. The case for low load resistance, in which collector cutoff due to its capacitance does not occur, is considered. The treatment is confined to small-signal operation."
"In some of the early traveling-wave tubes relatively high efficiencies and powers were observed. As more tubes were made, however, these results were not repeated and it became apparent that extremely wide variations in operation were obtained between tubes, with no obvious correspondence to observed structural variations. As a result an experimental program was undertaken to determine those parameters which are important to power output and efficiency, using a demountable continuously pumped tube and a probe technique for measuring the field strength along the length of the helix. As a result of this work it has been concluded that the amount and distribution of attenuation on the circuit has an important effect on the power output capabilities of the tube, and in fact that there is a relatively small latitude of attenuation distribution which will allow the maximum power output to be obtained and still give a good margin against oscillations. On a basis of these measurements empirical design criteria have been developed which specify attenuation distributions resulting in a minimum length of active circuit and a minimum net gain consistent with maximum efficiency. Application of the principles given has resulted in an increase in beam efficiency from 2% to 11% for a 4000 cm traveling-wave tube. By collecting electrons at a low voltage and increasing the total current, an overall “plate” efficiency of about 20% and 8 watts output has been obtained. One would expect that efficiency would be a function of the gain parameter (C), space charge (QC), attenuation (L/C) and the beam radius (γa'). This work is incomplete in that the effect of the last factor has been ignored. It does however give rough empirical relationships between the other factors for certain conditions, which have proven to be sound guides in the practical design of traveling-wave power tubes."
"The January, 1953 issue of Transactions for the Professional Group on Electron Devices contained the article, “Traveling-Wave Tube Oscillators,” by H. R. Johnson and J. R. Whinnery."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"In a unipolar “field-effect” transistor with the drain connection biased beyond “pinch-off” in respect to the gate, the potential distribution is difficult to determine by analytic methods. Approximate solution may readily be obtained except near the “extrapolated pinch-off point.” In this publication, an approximate solution is obtained valid over the entire length of the channel."
"The use of a traveling-wave tube1 as a power mixer employing phase modulation at a single frequency has been described by W. J. Bray.2 To use the same modulation principle with a wide band of modulation frequencies (hundreds of megacycles), excessive modulating power would be needed. This paper presents theory and experimental data for a broad-band traveling-wave type mixer requiring low modulating power. It consists of an input helix, a drift tube and an output helix arranged successively along a beam. Low modulating voltage is realized by operating the drift tube at low potential; the output helix is operated at high potential so the required power output can be obtained."
"The attenuator is a common and important component of every traveling — wave tube which uses a bi-directionally propagating slow-wave structure. There are several types of attenuators suitable for traveling-wave tube use and many aspects of each type. This paper is concerned only with distributed attenuators suitable for application in high-power, helix-type traveling-wave tubes and presents experimental evidence that there are three parameters, (a) loss, (b) circuit impedance, and (c) circuit phase velocity, needed to adequately describe the attenuator section."
"The properties of a cathode consisting of an internally coated hollow shell with an aperture have been measured for a variety of geometries. Electrons are emitted from the edge of the aperture at current densities as high as 30 amp/sq cm. The cathode is particularly adapted to producing hollow or odd-shaped electron beams."
"Transistor action is controlled by the diffusion of both holes and electrons, and it may be seen readily that the transient characteristics of the junction-type transistor also depend, in a large measure, upon the diffusion processes. By applying the Laplace transformation to the diffusion partial differential equation the equivalent circuit may be generalized to include the transient, as well as the d-c and a-c, characteristics. The case of pulse-response is treated as a specific example of the application of the generalized impedances."
"In an effort to overcome the low power handling capabilities of the conventional wire helix considerable effort has been devoted to the development of filter-type slow-wave structures for use in high-power traveling-wave amplifiers. However, the shortcoming of the various filter-type structures such as the disk-on-rod and the apertured disk, is their inherently narrow bandwidth. For a filter-type structure operating at a center frequency of 3000 mc, the maximum attainable bandwidth is approximately 10 per cent or 300 mc. With the type of structure considered herein it is hoped to achieve a bandwidth of approximately 30 per cent at 3000 mc. The helical waveguide structure is composed of a helical tape wound inside a cylinder. The hole for the passage of the beam would normally be located along the axis of the helical tape. However, the field analysis indicates that stronger coupling might be obtained by placing the beam hole somewhat off center. In order to gain maximum coupling to the beam, several off-center electron beams would be located at a radius corresponding to that of the maximum of the electric field. The cavities are coupled continuously by the helical tape. The bandwidth, i.e., dispersion curve, should approach that of the conventional wire helix except in the dispersive region because the waveguide has a cutoff. The power handling capability clearly is greater than that of the wire helix. However, the impedance will be lower, resulting In a lower gain parameter C. Other factors such as a higher permissible value of (Io/Vo) and a more nearly constant electric field along the spiral contribute to a higher gain parameter. In fact, the zero-order mode (β = O) will have no variation of electric field across the cavity. Because of the complexity of an exact mathematical analysis some approximations have been made. The assumption used in this analysis is that the pitch of the helical tape is considered small compared to its diameter. Each section of the waveguide is considered as a cylindrical cavity of height h, where h = 2 P and P = pitch of the tape. This is a valid assumption where the pitch is small, as the end faces of the cavities are essentially perpendicular to the cylindrical enclosure. The helical surface is considered to be a Riemann surface wherein φ is a periodic and single-valued coordinate; however, in the usual cylindrical coordinate system φ is a nonperiodic coordinate. Thus the fields are multi-valued functions of the coordinate φ. Under the above conditions and the generalization of the Bessel-function order n to its general parameter p, the familiar cylindrical wave-guide equations may be used. Under this transformation p is capable of assuming nonintegral values. On the basis of the theoretical analysis presented herein the helical waveguide structure seems best suited for high-frequency use, especially in the frequency range of 5–10 kmc. The bandwidth and gain approach those of the helix-type traveling-rave tube."
"The loading effect of the cathode and its support structure are analyzed insofar as they affect the circuit impedance. It is found that a series resonance occurs, heavily loading the anode cavity. Cold test measurements are presented which support this finding. The effect of the unbalance of the cathode potential with respect to the anode r-f potentials is analyzed in the space-charge-free case. Using rather general principles it is shown that the amplitude of the Hartree fundamental is unchanged, but that even Hartree harmonic components of the space field are introduced. The latter are (usually) unimportant since their phase velocities are quite different from that of the fundamental. Operating tests results are presented for a magnetron in which cathode potential was varied over the complete range of balance and unbalance. The only effect noticeable was that caused by impedance loading. Because of the lack of variation in electronic efficiency as cathode potential passed through balance, it is concluded that the unimportance of cathode potential unbalance is here demonstrated."
"The purpose of this study is to find the general conditions under which spontaneous, approximately sinusoidal oscillations will build up in an idealized system consisting of a stream of electrons flowing between two admittance sheets in crossed electric and magnetic fields. The motivation for a small-signal, greatly oversimplified theory is as usual the hope that the results after comparison with experimental data nay make it possible to reach a better qualitative understanding — at least — of the behavior of realizable systems and to show the way towards further improvement of the performance of these systems. The independent variables that are given particular attention are the admittances of the boundary surfaces, i.e., the “circuit” characteristics of the oscillator. The very general statement of the problem makes it possible to make some comparisons between the mechanisms of oscillation in travelling-wave and magnetron oscillators. The theoretical investigation presented studies the mode of oscillation in a re-entrant system formed by an ideal laminar stream of electrons partly filling the space between two plane boundaries of specified wave admittances. Comparisons are made between propagation parallel and perpendicular to the constant magnetic field. The particular purpose of the study is to survey the conditions under which modes exist that in the small-signal range show exponential growth of amplitude with time, in the hope that the result provide some better understanding of the limits for spontaneous initiation of oscillations in travelling-wave oscillators and magnetrons. When at least one of the boundary admittances contain inductance components, the wave guide formed by the admittance walls and the space between them is a propagating structure, and the classical small-signal travelling-wave-amplifier theory applies. More interesting are the cases where this structure is operated under cut-off conditions and attenuates only, in the absence of the beam. The wall admittances are then resistive and capacitive, and the analysis indicates that within certain ranges of the parameters spontaneous oscillations can still occur. Each root to the characteristic equation obtained for a specific case of boundary admittances leads to a relation between the radian wave numbers α and γ, on the one hand, and the complex frequency on the other hand, with beam velocity and dimensions as parameters. A study of this relation reveals the range of the parameters for which self-excited oscillations can be obtained, the electronic timing obtainable by varying the parameters, primarily the beam voltage, and the mode selection rules when a set of different wave numbers are permitted. The significance of the lower boundary (y = 0) and of its admittance is apparent in a magnetron, where the cathode surface forms a boundary which may have considerable wave resistance and, in case of a helical shape, also appreciable wave reactance. When a potential minimum exists, it is a rather complicated problem to state the boundary condition realistically. The analysis shows definitely, however, that even for very small perturbations the space charge is by no means a perfect shield around the cathode, and that the finite cathode admittance has an appreciable effect on the natural modes of oscillation of the system. The wide-range operation of voltage-tunable magnetrons may possibly be explained on the basis of this analysis. It is too early to present such a detailed interpretation here; only a general outline may be in order. When the anode admittance is large, the resistivity of the cathode may provide the necessary condition for the existence of growing waves even at frequencies where the mode is primarily capacitive, thus making the oscillation only to a minor extent depending on the anode circuit. The mode selection and the variation of output power with frequency is still likely to be determined by the anode circuit and its matching network, even if the frequency range over which oscillations occur is not to any appreciable degree."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"The possibilities of limitation of depth effect by film's resolution are considered, along with related considerations of the matchings of camera and of projector lenses."
"Editorial Note: This paper is reprinted from The Journal of the American Optometric Association of April and May 1953 not only because of its timely interest but also to give Journal readers a readily available reference. The bibliography of this paper shows sources of fuller treatments. Society members may recall a briefer treatment in the Journal: Howard T. Souther, “The illusion of depth perception in motion pictures,” Jour. SMPE, 46: 245–253, Apr. 1946."
"A small camera is described which takes 1/5 by 2 1/2 in. pictures at rates up to 450 frames/sec on 70mm film. The film is stationary during exposure. The total weight of the camera is 25 lb. Its long thin aperture shape, its high frame rate and its small size should make it a useful tool for work in ordnance and in aircraft and machine design."
"In order to obtain data on deionization times of high-voltage fault-arc paths the Bonneville Power Administration has made oscillographic and photographic records of electrical arcs produced on 115- and 230-kv buses with current magnitudes up to 25,000 amp. Speeds of 4000 frames/sec were used. Since the arcing times were very brief (0.1 to 0.01 sec), camera timing was critical. This, and estimation of the actinic value of the self-luminous arc, were the principal problems encountered. Another problem was photography of a self-luminous arc of high intensity against a background which must also appear in the picture when the arc is out."
"THE MOST significant developments in the motion-picture industry in Germany during 1952 were concerned with the manufacture of equipments rather than with new production techniques. In the manufacture of motion-picture cameras, many well-known firms newly reconstructed after the difficult post-war period were again able to show satisfactory delivery schedules. While, in general, no fundamentally new departures in technical equipment appeared on the market and most firms restricted themselves to the production of standard equipments manufactured with the highest precision, there did appear on the market a number of new cameras for 8mm, 16mm and high-speed photography."
"VISUAL INSPECTION of the sound track on l6mm film can yield much valuable information, particularly with regard to the presence of processing faults. To enable large quantities of film to be inspected, a simple type of projection microscope has been specially constructed."
"A description is given of the approach and final solution to the development of a silver sound track on 16mm Cinecolor for use with the lead sulfide photocell."
"Densitometry at Cinecolor matches use as closely as possible. To this end, densitometry of material to be used on optical printers is on a “specular densitometer,” and densitometry of sound tracks is on a “sound reproducer densitometer.” This paper describes these two densitometers."
"The need for unification of density measurements made in numerous and widely separated laboratories led to the development of the Eastman Electronic Densitometer, Type 31A. This densitometer reads diffuse densities of color films from 0.0 to 4.1 through narrow-band color filters, with a standard deviation of ±1% among different instruments. The construction and performance of the densitometer are described."
"The pedagogic needs for 16mm sound motion-picture production are discussed with a statement of the problem and a demonstration of its solution. The requirements include facilities for production recording, dialogue replacement, scoring and re-recording. All recording is done on 16mm magnetic film. The magnetic composite track is transferred to 16mm photographic negative for release. Equipments are being installed to permit variable-density, ultrasonic electric printing to Kodachrome and black-and-white. The simplicity and dependability of the magnetic equipments permit of student operation."
"Present trends in drive-in theaters, particularly as applied to light sources, projectors, sound systems, power supply units and projection lenses, are contrasted with those of several years ago. Current drive-ins favor the use of 9-mm and 10-mm positive carbons in reflector-type arc lamps in combination with the new 4-in. diameter lens. Comments are offered on the impact of three-dimensional pictures on drive-ins."
"A new, improved in-a-car speaker in which the speaker unit employs two speaker cones, one superimposed upon the other with a sealed 3/16-in. air space between, the outer cone being used for protection, the inner cone for projection of sound."
"THE WORK OF the Sound Committee must of necessity include investigation on all phases of techniques used in stereophonic sound reproduction. It was indeed fortunate that last year the Magnetic Subcommittee was able to obtain agreement on the triple 200-mil magnetic track for 35mm film since this is the standard that is being used currently on 3-D showings where the sound is reproduced from a separate interlocked magnetic dummy."
"SINCE ITS LAST REPORT, the l6mm and 8mm Motion Pictures Committee has processed in one manner or another, eight standards. Of these, one has just been approved as an American Standard, two are in the Standards Committee, having been approved by the 16mm and 8mm Motion Pictures Committee, one has been published for trial and comment, and four are still in letter ballot in the Committee."
"Aslib, formerly known as the Association of Special Libraries and Information Bureaux, was established in 1924 to facilitate the coordination and systematic use of information in commerce, industry and the academic world. It acts as an intelligence service for putting its members, who are all users of information, in touch with special and technical knowledge on every subject."
"The analysis of grain structures in imaging systems containing a point- or line-raster process requires evaluation of the sine-wave response in two coordinates. The characteristics of the raster process are developed by a Fourier analysis of the optical image. The sine-wave response perpendicular to the raster lines (for example the vertical sine-wave response of a television system) is shown to contain in general a carrier wave, the normal aperture response to sine-wave test signals, and a series of sum-and-difference components with magnitudes depending on the aperture response products of the analyzing and synthesizing apertures preceding and following the raster process (camera tube and kinescope in television systems). A graphic representation of the raster equation (Fig. 70) shows at B glance the number and magnitude of the sine-wave components for any combination of apertures used with the raster process. The application of the aperture theory developed in Part II yields an equivalent optimal aperture (Fig. 80) and equivalent passband (Eq. (64)) for the theoretical television channel. The evaluation of the horizontal sine-wave response of electro-optical systems containing electrical and optical elements is simplified by establishing normalized characteristics for the sine-wave response, equivalent passband, aperture cross section, and edge transition of a variety of electrical response characteristics (including aperture correction) in cascade with optical apertures. Because of their general character and use in the evaluation and design of television systems, the range of parameters has been extended beyond the cases used in examples."
"This-action marking at film speeds from 2000 to 8000 frames/sec and some of the circuit requirements which must be met to obtain clear edge marks on motion-picture film are discussed."
"A new, versatile tracking camera mount is described. This instrument was developed to solve certain problems in ballistic data-gathering activities. Performance and operational characteristics of the mount, camera types and uses, lenses, communication, orientation, timing and power requirements are also discussed. The tracking camera mount is a completely independent unit, supplying its own power, and capable of negotiating heavy sand."
"The general problem of encoding a picture for transmission and decoding it at the receiver is considered, with special reference to the privacy problem of subscription, or pay-as-you-see television. Alternative ways of indicating the price of the program and acknowledging its payment are described. The factors which have led to the choice of system elements made in the Telemeter system become clear on the basis of this general discussion."
"The requirement that an experimental series of “Standard Hour” television concerts be released in six markets on 16mm film posed special problems of economics and quality. Closed-circuit special video recording was used incorporating a number of unconventional techniques such as the use of direct-positive “reversal” masters and negative-image release prints. Prescoring was used for all musical numbers and audio procedure made use of ¼-in, magnetic tape, 16mm magnetic film, and a direct-positive electro-printed variable-density sound track for final release."
"The Year 1952 will be marked as a milestone in the history of motion-picture production and presentation. At a time when the motion-picture industry was beset with depressing reports of poor box-office receipts from the best product that the industry could produce, there appeared on the screen two epoch-making presentations that have revitalized the motion-picture business. The reference is, of course, to the presentation of Cinerama in New York and the showing of Bwana Devil, the 3-D production of Arch Oboler, in Los Angeles. In compiling the Progress Report for 1952 it would seem logical, therefore, that these two presentations should be reported upon first."
"A recent investigation of the variation in spectral reflectance and chromaticity of the flesh tones of various individuals is described. Spectrophotometric reflectance measurements were made on the face, arms and hands of several individuals having different complexions and degrees of sun tan. Spectro-radiometric measurements were made of many phases of daylight. The variations in chromaticity of fleshtones due to daylight variations were calculated. The reflectance of the flesh was computed in terms of the response of an exposure meter to determine the exposure constant for reflected-light readings taken on the human face."
"The televising of a symphony orchestra is a very complicated project. It requires the thought, the preplanning and the thorough rehearsal associated with the most elaborate live network productions. Yet such projects must often be attempted on a local scale by small commercial or educational stations with extremely limited facilities and rehearsal time. The following article describes a production method which was developed to meet such a situation."
"Echoes in television transmission appear as irregularities in attenuation and phase characteristics. Tolerances on echoes well removed from the main picture are independent of the spacing (or echo delay). They vary inversely with spacing (echo delay) for close-up echoes. In the phase characteristic this leads to placing tolerances on envelope delay for large-scale features of the phase distortion, and on phase delay for fine structure irregularities. Tolerances are also placed upon the overall phase drift within the pass band. Similar treatment appears for the three classifications of attenuation distortion. Applications to broadcast and theater television are discussed."
"Hazards and conditions in research on rocket engines have established high-speed photography as a useful tool. High-speed cameras have removed personnel and sensitive equipment from dangerous areas. The camera's independence of the rocket engine permits an unbiased record of firing behavior and often yields clues to anomalous occurrences not otherwise explainable. The application of high-speed photography to transparent rocket thrust chamber research is emphasized; some specialized variations of normal schlieren and shadowgraph techniques are described, as are the studies of hydraulic transients."
"Described are a basic electronic flash and delay circuit and its applications to shadow and reflected-light photography, Kerr-cell shutters and ultra-high-speed cinematography in conjunction with the Cranz optical setup."
"Wear on a magnetic-recording head reduces the front-gap pole-face depth and thereby produces an increase of the gap reluctance. This in turn produces a higher effective bias flux which has an erase action and thus tends to attenuate the high frequencies as they are being recorded on the recording medium. It is the purpose of the paper to present these performance variations as a function of the lowered inductance associated with head wear and to show how, simply through a correction of bias current, proper performance can be restored."
"The Navy's shipboard motion-picture installations, involving special location problems calling for equipment of great flexibility, and acoustic problems complicated by high noise levels, are briefly described."
"Intensity of light emitted or reflected from a surface in accordance with Lambert's law varies in proportion to the cosine of the angle between the direction of the light beam and the normal to the surface. With many surfaces which do not follow this law, it is possible to approximate the variation of intensity with some power of the cosine. When such an approximation can be made, relatively simple relationships can be obtained for luminance (brightness), emittance and related factors. Use of this approach may take some of the mystery out of such problems as the determination of screen brightness and a study of transmission characteristics of process screens."
"The use of photography for determining velocities, accelerations and degrees of movement in high-speed phenomena as well as in growing plant and animal life is discussed. Focal length of lens, distance from camera to subject, size of subject, corrective angles and magnifications of results are shown to be vital factors in every variety of time-motion study, and recommendations for achieving optimal results are made."
"A number of incomplete Askania cinetheodolites are being extensively rehabilitated and modified under a joint program of the Navy Bureau of Ordnance and the Army Ordnance Ballistic Research Laboratories. New features include improved bearings, data circles, complete replacement of all mount components except carriage castings, a Mitchell high-speed camera movement operating synchronously at 16, 32 or 64 frames/sec, 500-ft magazines, and telescopic optical systems of 60-, 96-, 144- and 180-in. focal lengths."
"A heavy-duty 16mm projector was described in 1950 by the author.1 This projector has since been modified to adapt it to full-storage operation with a television camera. The modifications include a somewhat faster pulldown operating at the uniform rate of 24 frames/sec and a relay condenser system which, in combination with a special shutter and filters, provides adequate illumination of improved quality within blanking time. Operational facilities are also described. The accommodation problem of converting 24 frames/sec of motion pictures into 30 frames/sec for television is treated in an Appendix to the paper."
"The Television Test Film is intended to provide a means by which performance tests of a television film reproduction system can be made on a routine operational basis. Its test sections are chosen to emphasize errors of physical alignment and electrical adjustment in such a way that needed corrections become apparent. It is suggested that the reel be run through all projection equipment at regular intervals to provide a standardized indication of normal operation. In this way equipment malfunction may be detected before its effect becomes serious."
"Negative and positive color films have been made available to the industry in recent years. Several systems are possible for inclusion of special effects when using materials of this type, but the preferred system appears to be that using black-and-white separation positives and a color internegative. Four materials are described which can be used in a system of this type or which can be used in conjunction with existing commercial color motion-picture production processes. Three of these materials represent improvements over earlier products of a similar type which were used in the last few years for a number of motion-picture productions. Formulas and procedures for use with these new films are given and some of the problems associated with printing, process adjustment and control are discussed."
"This paper describes a method for measuring rear-projection screen brightness compared to the reflectivity of a standard magnesium block."
"An interpretation of the aperture-response concept as it applies to lenses or optical systems is followed by a description of an apparatus with which large Schmidt-type projection optical systems may be tested. The apparatus is adapted to present continuously the response curve on an oscilloscope, where it may be photographed against a grid for further study. The optical system may be tested for response to both radial and tangential line detail, in field zones that extend out to half the normal raster diagonal from the center."
"Since the earliest use of artificial light on motion-picture locations, portable engine-driven lighting-power sources have been needed. This paper describes the design features and performance characteristics of a new 650-amp 120-v, d-c, engine-generator set which is much smaller and lighter in proportion to its power output than any of the previous equipments."
"Some of the unique characteristics of glow lamps are discussed in relation to their use in high-speed photography. Physical and electrical characteristics are given."
"Stereophonic sound has become of vital importance to industry. The subject has been studied for many years, but the published material is scattered. This paper summarizes the fundamental theory underlying stereophonic sound so far as it has been published, and gives examples of how the theory is employed in representative practical situations. Fundamental differences between ordinary binaural listening and stereophony are pointed out, as well as similarities. It is shown that much qualitative but little quantitative information has been reported. Factors which aid some stereophonic effects are shown to be detrimental to others, and methods of minimizing the undesirable conditions are suggested. Applications to recording are discussed."
"Psychometric methods were used to evaluate the relative sharpness of a number of photographic reproductions in which sharpness was the only significant variable. Since sharpness is an observer's subjective impression of an aspect of picture definition, the methods for deriving sharpness values involve introspective processes and methods of quantifying these subjective impressions. Although no physical measurements of any aspect of the stimulus are involved in deriving sharpness values by the psychometric method, repeated evaluations showed that the scale values obtained are a reliable indication of the sharpness attribute of a photographic reproduction. Three methods of quantifying the judgment data were used, and the sharpness ratings obtained from all three were in good agreement with one another. Projected transparencies gave substantially the same results as paper enlargements. Attempts to correlate the sharpness ratings with physical measurements of some aspect of the developed image were not entirely successful; neither resolving power nor simple density relationships across an abrupt boundary between light and dark areas resulted in satisfactory correlations with sharpness ratings."
"When several high-speed cameras are operated simultaneously, but independently, it is possible that the aggregate of pictures obtained will satisfactorily cover the space between the pictures provided by any one camera. This paper gives a method for estimating the probability that the longest interval without a picture will not exceed a selected value."
"The du Pont Company's Mechanical Development Laboratory has made use of high-speed photographic techniques in the evaluation of chemical, metallurgical and mechanical processes. To cover the wide range of subjects encountered, some development work on cameras, lights and associated equipment has been necessary. This work is described herein."
"A full-frame 35mm rotating-prism type camera is described and its features discussed. The camera has a 500-ft capacity and a picture-taking rate of from 100 to 2500 frames/sec."
"A set of vacuum-deposited thin-film multilayer transmission filters has been developed for use as highly efficient primaries in additive color projection. Light which is not transmitted is reflected. Consequently the filters can be used in high-illumination beams without overheating and changing color. Modification of spectrophotometric curves can be effected as desired in specific problems."
"This paper deals with the design and construction of a 35mm stereo cine camera outlining the optimum facilities required, the problems encountered in design of the camera and how they were solved, and the technique used in shooting stereo motion pictures with this camera."
"In addition to reproducing sound from conventional optical tracks, this projector is capable of recording and playing back magnetic oxide tracks applied to either single- or double-perforated 16mm films. The important aspects of the mechanical and electrical design are described, showing their relation to the performance of the projector."
"The D. K. G. Test Film No. 4a, produced by the German Motion- Picture Engineering Society in Munich, is intended as a means for making routine listening and viewing tests in the theater and for checking projector performance. No additional equipment, other than a stopwatch, is required."
"Techniques have been developed in the scheduling of film programs and the splicing of films which reduce the technical manpower required for operations. By utilizing oversize reels and remote control of the projection equipment, two men can easily handle audio and video control and also be responsible for normally unattended film projection equipment. Practical techniques of film splicing and editing are also described."
"The system of stereoscopic photography developed by the Motion Picture Research Council, and now generally used in the major Hollywood studios, has been based upon extensive experimental data regarding the processes involved in binocular vision. It is now known that this vision does not give absolute location of points in space, but rather that it is sensitive to small differences in distance and direction. Therefore, it appears logical to use differential rather than integral forms in calculating probable appearances of projected pictures. It is found that this approach removes many of the troublesome restrictions found in suggestions based upon other assumptions. Perspective and apparent depth can be balanced for pictures seen from the better viewing positions in motion-picture theaters. It is also possible to include necessary psychological factors to allow satisfactory photography of close-ups and other special effects. The result is that if certain simple limitations and precautions are observed, it is not difficult to obtain stereoscopic motion pictures which are consistently natural in appearance and easy to view."
"In flow studies of liquids and gases, the velocity, pressure, density and temperature of the moving fluid can be obtained through the use of schlieren, shadowgraph and interferometer techniques. A basic optical and photographic description is given of the three systems, and a fundamental application comparison is made."
"The big rush for television news release prints from single-system negative prompted the design of this conversion unit. In news work every possible shortcut must be taken, without lowering the quality of the release prints. These converted printers cut the printing time in half; also, they save considerable raw stock, because in loop printing a splice may give way and create a synchronization problem in resplicing the negative, with the result that stock with sound printed but no picture usually has to be discarded. No loss occurs when picture and sound are printed simultaneously on these printers."
"Three-dimensional and wide-screen projection both require substantially more than the conventional amount of screen light. The super Ventarc has been designed to meet these requirements to such an extent that the screen lumens are only limited by the maximum density of radiant energy the film can take. If this value is set at 0.7 w/sq mm, the ultimate limit for a 35mm projection system will be approximately 50,000 lm, with no film shutter. This level of screen light has been attained at 150 amp."
"The performance of carbons operated in the Gretener type of “blown arc” shows the following advantages as compared with the more usual method of burning: (a) from 5 to 25% less current is required to produce the same light; (b) at the higher brightness levels, less carbon consumption is required for the same light; (c) the maximum light that the carbon will deliver is increased by 10 to 20%; and (d) uniformity of brightness across the face of the arc crater is considerably improved. The performance advantages of the “blown arc” seem to be considerably greater for 12-mm than for 10-mm carbons, and are greatest when the carbon is operated at or near its maximum current and light output. The addition of blowing to the arc introduces special problems regarding the design and operation of the negative electrode."
"Screen brightness is measured and specified in order to control viewing conditions for projected pictures. By the modulation of light from the projector the whole artistic creation captured in the production of a motion picture is presented to its ultimate audience. This creation can only equal the director's concept when viewing conditions are known and predictable. The control of screen brightness and the screen-image transfer characteristic is therefore a necessary condition for the most effective presentation of motion pictures. Brightness characteristics of projected pictures are discussed and the various practical simplifications considered. Nine conditions of screen-brightness measurement are described, specifications for the meters required are developed, and several simplified practical procedures for field measurement are detailed."
"The work of the National Television System Committee on color television has probably constituted a fundamental and major advance. This report of the NTSC's accomplishments is the author's view, and not an official statement on behalf of that Committee."
"The Eidophor, or Fischer, theater television system is described in an introductory way, then as installed at the Twentieth Century-Fox home office theater a year ago for exhibition shows for exhibitors and the press."
"The paper describes the Fischer system of large-screen television projection which makes use of an “Eidophor” liquid. Consideration is given to the brightness requirements, and the principles of the schlieren optical system are discussed together with the manner in which the Eidophor functions. The technical problems involved are dealt with and the results obtained with the third prototype examined."
"During World War Two, the application of thin films to glass surfaces progressed from experimental laboratory work to practical application in optical devices. At present, virtually all lenses are coated to reduce reflection. Plates coated with multilayer films, known as dichroic mirrors, are also being applied as efficient light dividers. The recent use of dichroic mirrors in experimental color television equipment is one of the best known applications. The purpose of this paper is to review briefly the interference phenomenon involved and to describe the results obtainable with several dichroic mirror designs."
"A new flashtube arrangement, providing projection light for television reproduction from film, is here described in detail. It assures accurate and permanent synchronization of light pulse with intermittent pulldown. Further, since both the intermittent movement and the flashing lamp are controlled by the television vertical pulse, the mechanism can readily be interlocked with other picture sources for interpolation, laps and fades. Travel ghost resulting from motion of film while the light pulse is on is made impossible by the design."
"A new professional projector specifically designed to meet television needs, which features a high-fidelity sound system with fast stabilization time, is described. A 2–3 pulldown system is incorporated especially for television. All gearing runs in oil and gears and other mechanical parts are designed for long life. Projection lamps change automatically in the event of filament failure. Still pictures can be shown."
"The use of high-speed photography, at rates of 3000 to 4000 frames/sec, for the investigation of welding arcs is briefly described, with detailed specifications."
"The Underground Explosion Test Program was established to determine the resistance of soils and structures to attack with high explosives. This paper discusses some of the problems in applying high-speed motion picture photography to the surface phenomena accompanying these tests. Some improvements in equipment and methods were suggested, based on observations made in the field."
"Various means of recording vision-frequency signals are considered. For high-definition television, photographic recording appears to be the only practicable method. The film may be moved at constant velocity or intermittently, and some known systems are classified under these headings and described with their advantages and disadvantages, particular attention being given to the two methods now in use by the B.B.C. Various factors affecting the performance of television-recording cameras are then discussed, such as picture joins, interlacing, loss of definition on movement, optical efficiency, film stability, emulsion pile-up, and spot-position modulation. A suitable arrangement of the vision-frequency equipment is dealt with, and the necessary electrical corrections are described. The factors governing the choice of a cathode-ray tube for recording purposes are discussed, while some possible improvements are indicated. The various transfer characteristics concerned have been measured. Contrast correction is discussed, together with possible ways of improving the overall performance, such as high-gamma recording. The conditions for making satisfactory positive prints direct from negative television pictures are stated. Some conclusions based on operating experience of continuous and intermittent systems are then given."
"A Proposed Standard on slides and opaques for television use is published on the following pages for three months of trial and criticism. All comments should be sent to Henry Kogel, SMPTE Staff Engineer, prior to July 1, 1953. If no adverse comments are received, the proposal will then be submitted to ASA Sectional Committee PH22 for further processing as an American Standard. The proposal was prepared by the Joint RTMA/SMPTE Television Film Equipment Committee."
"The name of this association shall be society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers."
"Sec. 1. Membership of the Society shall consist of the following grades: Honorary members, Sustaining members, Fellows, Active members, Associate members and Student members."
"On March 10, 1953, the members of this Committee met to consider several very timely questions that have been raised with respect to special magazines, projection reels and reel spindles required for exhibition of three-dimensional motion pictures."
"Meeting on March 19, the Managers I authorized an expenditure for imprinted envelopes which should establish control over mailings and prevent a reoccurrence of the mix-up which kept perhaps as much as half the membership from receiving their notices for this meeting. George Negus reported on a Chicago Technical Council Meeting of Program Chairmen. It was agreed that an article describing the functions of the Central Section would be prepared for publication in the local Sci-En-Tech ."
"The introduction of rapid drying technique for rapidly processed film suggests its possible application for the drying of normally processed motion picture films. Consideration of the drying process seems to indicate that hot impinged air should be the most satisfactory method of commercial practice. Experiments were made on a laboratory machine in which the film passes between two parallel air chambers. Small holes in the sides of the chambers facing the film permit hot air to impinge on both sides of the film. Air temperatures ranging from 125 F to 210 F and air velocities of 2,000 to 6,000 fpm were used. Eastman Fine Grain Release Positive Safety Film was dried in 10 sec on laboratory equipment of this type and Eastman Plus X Panchromatic Negative Safety Film was dried in 16 sec. The physical properties of several films dried in this equipment were quite similar to the properties of conventionally dried films, but this is not true for all types of film. Rapid driers can be extremely compact and their power requirements should be no greater than for conventional driers."
"The results of an investigation into the effects of turbulence in the rapid processing of photographic film under fixed conditions are described. For test purposes a turbulent processing machine was constructed permitting rapid switching of fluids and evaluation of resulting reactions."
"A detailed description is given of the theory, construction and application of a new type of Isotransport camera using the rotating drum principle and designed to provide a potential repetition rate up to 100,000 frames/sec. It is expected that this camera will be of particular interest to organizations whose need for equipment in the higher speed range does not justify the investment required to provide a permanent installatin."
"A brief description of explosive reactions is presented to acquaint the reader with the problems which arise in the study of explosions by photographic techniques. Optical and electronic equipment, designed to produce exposure times approaching 10-9 sec, is discussed from the standpoint of light-gathering power, exposure time and cost. Three basic types of cameras (streak, single short-duration exposure, and very-high-speed motion picture) are described, and examples of typical photographs are presented."
"The servo circuits and mechanical design features of a television camera chain are described. The chain, in order to achieve flexibility and ease of operation, features remote control of lens selection and focus. Centralized functional controls are grouped together for operating convenience. The equipment is compact, light in weight and sturdy for field use, yet meets the' high performance standards required in the studio."
"A method and apparatus for butt-weld splicing motion picture film, not requiring the usual scraping or cements, are described. The principle is based on a combination of a controlled heat and cooling gradient applied under pressure within a given time cycle, and producing a homogeneous splice. Properties of the film are not affected, as the film is automatically preplasticized prior to splicing. The method may be used for all types of safety film."
"IN ACCORDANCE with the recommendation of the Committee on Procedure of the American Standards Association, approved by the Standards Council on January 14,1953, the name of the Photographic Standards (Correlating) Committee (PS(C)C) has been officially changed to the Photographic Standards Board (PSB)."
"THE PROPOSED American Standard on A and B Windings of 16mm Single-Perforated Film was published previously in the September 1949 and January 1951 Journal and is again published on the following page for three-month trial and comment."
"This paper deals with the theoretical and practical aspects of a sound-on-film recorder with no moving parts, utilizing the birefringence properties of certain crystals. The physical properties of various crystals, as well as final performance measurements of the entire sound system, are discussed."
"A color printing system for motion pictures is outlined employing: Eastman Color Negative Safety Film, Type 5247; Eastman Separation Panchromatic Safety Film, Type 5216; Eastman Color Internegative Safety Film, Type 5243; and Eastman Color Print Safety Film, Type 5381. The sensitometric characteristics of the two intermediate materials are described. Some methods of using them and the problems involved in color registration printing are discussed."
"Various devices have been perfected to control accurately the exposure of video pictures to be recorded on motion picture film. These devices, combined with sensitometric control, take much of the guesswork out of the kinescope recording process."
"A technique is described whereby network television programs can be delayed for three hours to compensate for the time differential between the east and west coasts. The use of 35mm film for picture and magnetic recording for sound insures high-quality reproduction."
"The history of high-speed photography in Great Britain is outlined, beginning with intermediate-rate cameras, defined as those in which the film is transported continuously through the camera mechanism at speeds not exceeding 40 m/sec. Then follows a survey of drum cameras, in which a single loop of film is transported at speeds up to 240 m/sec on a rotating drum, or where images are swept along the stationary film at this rate by moving optical parts. Recent developments in light sources of short duration are discussed and the review concludes with a description of some research studies in zoological, biological and medical sciences, and some recent military applications."
"This paper presents the problem of obtaining relatively large photographs in sequence at frame rates up to 50/sec. Design characteristics required for a camera suitable for obtaining photographic data of missile launchings and flights with negatives $2{1\\over4}$ in. wide and $2{1\\over2}$ or 5 in. long are enumerated. The intermittent film transporting mechanism and shutter system used in the solution of this problem are described."
"Maximum efficiency in editing film both in production studios and in television stations is the objective of a recently developed preview-and-editing machine which utilizes a continuous projection process in place of the customary intermittent movement and shutter. Because projection is continuous, and because all parts are so machined that no portion of the film except the sprocket-hole area ever comes into contact with any surface, valuable originals and fine-grain masters can safely be edited on this machine."
"A need was felt for a reasonably priced, quickly accessible, self-contained automatic film processor for television stations and small laboratories. This led to the design of the Bridgamatic machine which embodies standard commercial design plus a continuous overdrive, tension-relieving devices, straight-line film flow and ease of handling. 16mm and 35mm negative-positive and reversal models are described. The add-a-unit idea was adopted, so the bare machine can later be equipped with whatever refinements are desired."
"An accelerated interest in stereoscopic photography has been inspired in recent years by the appearance of compact, well-designed cameras and viewing devices marketed at moderate prices. These new products and their increasingly widespread use support the belief that any art such as stereoscopic representation depends for popularity, indeed for survival, on the equipment available to enable people to practice the art."
"Presented here are the results of over a year's use of image-orthicon cameras for all film transmitted by television station WABD, New York, totaling approximately 2000 hr. In addition to brief consideration of the technical problems encountered, cost, reliability, convenience and other operational factors are discussed."
"Experience in shooting live television shows on film is described, in which three motion picture cameras were used instead of television cameras, with overhead lighting and in the presence of an audience. Subject contrast was measured by means of a flare-free brightness photometer."
"The occasional failure of sensitometric data to provide a reliable indication of the practical performance of photographic materials is usually attributable to the failure of the reciprocity law. The effect of reciprocity-law failure on the characteristic D-log E curves of various films is shown graphically. The influence of developing time and of the temperature of the film on the effectiveness of exposure at various intensity levels is discussed. Certain generalizations are made about the failure of the reciprocity law which may be helpful in reconciling differences between laboratory measurements and the results obtained in motion picture practice."
"At the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics we were confronted, some time ago, with the problem of lighting and photographing at 6000 frames/sec, the path of a missile 6 in. in diameter, traveling for a distance of 30 ft."
"A cinefluorographic motion picture camera and reduction printer using 70mm perforated negative film are described. The camera drive mechanism permits camera speeds up to 15 frames/sec. Prints can be made either on 35mm or 16mm positive film."
"The Douglas Aircraft Co. has gained considerable experience in the application of wide-angle optics to certain motion picture cameras, particularly at 200 to 500 frames/sec. The field of view used ranged from 140 to 160° full-cone angle, and aperture settings of the order of f/1.5 were obtained. Further, the extreme depth of field of the optical system was found to be a very useful feature. Experiences concerning the development of these wide-angle cameras are discussed."
"The new automatic film-threading motion picture camera designed and built by G. J. Badgley at the Naval Photographic Center provides: (1) a 16mm motion picture camera that can be easily loaded, quickly threaded and operated under adverse conditions normally encountered by naval photographers; and (2) a motion picture camera that can be used for recording of radar and television images appearing upon cathode-ray tubes."
"An animation stand engineered to meet all requirements of flat-bed stop-motion animation for 16mm and 35mm film is described. It is designed to combine ease of operation with facilities for the most intricate effects shots and special techniques. A unique peg and platen system allows larger field sizes than hitherto available on similar equipment. The use of ball bearings at all friction points eliminates power-driven mechanisms and simplifies maintenance."
"On January 8, 1953, the American Standards Association approved four new standards which are published on the following pages."
"The main features of European high-speed photographic instrumentation are described, including cameras using stationary film, those with intermittently or continuously moving film, and those incorporating the film drum. Methods of lighting high-speed photography with various spark arrangements are discussed."
"A shutter with an effective open time of about 1 μsec is described which was specially designed to photograph high explosives during detonation. Precision adjustment of the exposure instant by a time-delay circuit triggered by the explosion light is used for synchronization. Optical systems of focal lengths of 6 in. to 6 ft have been employed. Examples are given of pentolite and TNT explosions."
"This paper emphasizes the need for good engineering in the production of stereo films to insure conformity with normal patterns of psycho-physiological functions of binocular vision. It describes the impact of stereoscopic motion pictures on the ophthalmic world and outlines some of the therapeutic benefits from viewing stereoscopic motion pictures. An orderly program is needed to inform the public of the potent stimulation to good binocular vision which results from viewing properly produced and projected stereoscopic motion pictures."
"This monitor presents visually the information recorded on magnetic tape without employing auxiliary equipment such as movable scanning heads, amplifiers, etc. The presentation is a variable-area display that indicates frequency and amplitude. The display remains stationary as long as the tape is motionless in the Magnescope, but movement of the tape is accompanied by corresponding movement of the display. Magnescope consists of a unique cathode-ray tube and its associated power supply. The cathode-ray tube is so constructed that the magnetic fields from the tape directly influence a beam of electrons which produces the variable-area display."
"This paper describes a film-editing machine which employs continuous projection resulting in quiet operation. It accommodates standard-picture and photographic or magnetic sound film as well as composite sound-picture film. Differential synchronizing of sound and picture while running, automatic fast stop and simplified threading features in the film gates with finger-tip release materially increase operating efficiency."
"The editing of magnetic sound tracks by visual and aural methods has become increasingly important because of the rapid adoption of the magnetic system by the industry, both for primary recordings and theater release. Three-dimensional theatrical and multicamera television films have also stressed the need for editors which show more than one picture. A solution is suggested for these problems and a system of electronic editing is proposed, leading to an enlargement of editing processes to include sound recording, re-recording and dubbing, formerly limited to the sound studio."
"An automatic film splicer is described in which an accurate join is obtained rapidly by the movement of two levers. The essential requirements of a modern splicer and their practical fulfillment are discussed."
"The historical background and design requirements of three-dimensional sound systems are discussed. Particular attention is given to the requirements for reproducing low-frequency sounds."
"This paper reports an extension of the theory and methods of stereophonic recording and reproduction, as particularly applicable to motion pictures. Microphone technique becomes very different from that previously used because of the manner of staging, the use of varied angles of view by the camera, and a fixed theater picture size. Typical microphone technique is illustrated and re-recording with added sound effects is described."
"Microphones, loudspeakers and amplifiers now being installed for stereophonic reproduction of motion pictures in theaters are described. Detailed characteristics of the individual components are analyzed, along with methods of providing proper equalization. Typical installation methods are also outlined."
"The object of this investigation was to devise an economical construction method for multiple-track magnetic heads used in recording on 35mm perforated magnetic film, particularly when such (reproducing) devices are used in a theater for the stereophonic presentation of motion pictures. Two methods of construction were employed. The head built by one method shows somewhat more crosstalk reduction, but the head built by the other method is less expensive to manufacture and also shows a number of other superior features. Both magnetic heads are entirely satisfactory for the purpose intended, in regard to frequency response as well as to sensitivity and crosstalk."
"This paper describes new stereophonic recording channel equipment including a six-position mixer and portable three-channel recorder. For re-recording, the previously described triple-track recorder-reproducer is available. For review-room and theater reproduction, a theater-type dummy equipped for three-channel stereophonic reproduction is described."
"This paper describes a new theater sound system based on the “building block” concept for general indoor theater or drive-in theater use. The system is readily adaptable for multichannel sound reproduction for heightening the dramatic effect of the three-dimensional and peripheral-vision types of pictures soon to be released by Hollywood. New preamplifiers, power amplifiers and power supplies are described with rack layouts for specific applications. Included is a new booth front wall control system for effecting either sound change-over or simultaneous sound and picture change-over, and for selecting various signal sources."
"The fundamental requirements involved in a system capable of picking up orchestral music, transmitting it a long distance, and reproducing it in a large hall, are discussed in this paper."
"In considering the physical factors affecting it, auditory perspective is defined in this paper as being reproduction which preserves the spatial relationship of the original sounds. Ideally, this would require an infinite number of separate microphone-to-speaker channels; practically, it is shown that good auditory perspective can be obtained with only two or three channels."
"In ordinary radio broadcast of symphony music, the effort is to create the effect of taking the listener to the scene of the program, whereas in reproducing such music in a large hall before a large gathering the effect required is that of transporting the distant orchestra to the listeners. Lacking the visual diversion of watching the orchestra play, such an audience centers its interest more acutely in the music itself, thus requiring a high degree of perfection in the reproducing apparatus both as to quality and as to the illusion of localization of the various instruments. Principles of design of the loudspeakers and microphones used in the Philadelphia-Washington experiment are treated at length in this paper."
"Noise is a limiting factor in any system which stores information because it limits the signal-to-noise ratio and hence the total quantity of stored data. This applies in the field of sound recording and reproducing, as well as in any information storage system."
"Presents the title page of the proceedings record."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"This is Volume XVII of the “Digest of Literature on Dielectrics” covering literature in the field of dielectrics and its environs which appeared in 1953. As usual, some articles from earlier years which have been missed in previous Digests are also included."
"Like Don Quixote, the trends in research and development in 1953 are galloping off in all directions at once. One glance at the chapter headings of this Digest, makes one realize how diversified is the field of dielectrics. Add to these headings the ranges involved in the subject of each chapter and one has the feeling that there is little in science or engineering that in some way or another is not involved in the field of dielectrics. It is, therefore, very difficult for any one man to assess the value of the work done in all the various aspects of the field of dielectrics. However, with the able assistance of the authors of the various chapters in the Digest, the following summary of the accomplishments in this field is offered."
"Several books on basic circuit, field, and measurement theory have been published. An informative book dealing with microwave theory and technique by Reich, Ordung, Krauss, and Skalnik (1) has appeared. While it is primarily a text book, it is also a useful reference book on transmission-line and wave-guide theory, measurements, components, oscillators, and amplifiers. Ramo and Whinnery (2) have published a second edition of their excellent book on microwave field theory which includes a chapter on resonant cavities. In an important book on electrical measurements Karo (3) thoroughly discusses circuit elements, bridges, and associated instruments used at relatively low frequencies. The errors in a-c bridges are also discussed in detail."
"Many papers have been published which are generalizations or refinements of the basic theoretical analyses of Kirkwood and Frőhlich. Several theories often fit a more or less limited range of experimental results so that one feels that agreement with experimental dielectric constant values alone is not a very conclusive check on the basic assumptions of these theories. Multiplicity of theories rather than disagreement with experiment seems to be the chief theoretical problem in several aspects of dielectric behaviour at present."
"Franz (1) has written (in German) a detailed review article concerning the theory of “intrinsic” electric breakdown in solids. The review, fifty-five pages in length, includes twenty-three figures and sixty literature references. Franz devotes a chapter to each of the following topics: (a) theory of electronic processes in crystalline solids, including a discussion of electronic energy states and lattice vibrations, energy exchange between electrons and lattice vibrations, impact ionization, and recombination; (b) theory of internal field emission which involves electrons which are promoted from the valence to conduction bands and from traps; (c) calculation of the distribution function for the electron energy in the conduction band in both crystalline solids at room temperature, and amorphous solids (Frőhlich, 1947); the time-dependent growth toward the steady-state distribution of the electronic energies; (d) the time-dependence of the temperature increase which arises from Joule heating due to electronic current; the critical temperature which must be reached to cause breakdown; (e) application of the theory to predict electric strengths of alkali halides, diamond, silicon, germanium, and amorphous materials."
"Research published in 1953 gives important new information on the structure and properties of the two oldest groups of ferroelectrics, tartrates and dihydrogen phosphates-arsenates, adding to our hope for a new unified theory of ferroelectricity."
"In the present section, attention is confined to ferromagnetic materials that are nonmetallic. The materials dealt with are characterized by a resultant spontaneous magnetization that ordinarily is due to an uncompensated antiferro-magnetism. In Néel's terminology substances of this type would be described as “ferrimagnetic”. We shall make no particular effort to employ this special terminology, rather we shall regard the term ferromagnetism as a general one which includes ferrimagnetism as a sub-class."
"The purpose of this review is to present only those developments in the field of synthetic plastic insulation judged to be of interest to electrical and electronic engineers, and physicists. The nonelectrical phases of high polymer technology are adequately summarized elsewhere (1, 2)."
"The most interesting developments during 1953 have been the improvement in properties of silicone rubber and their more widespread use for electrical insulation. Silicone and other synthetic rubbers are becoming important in the field of dielectrics. Aging, oxidation, and cracking are the major problems with rubber insulation which were studied in 1953. Fundamental and practical solutions to many phases of these problems may be forthcoming which will bring about in the future rubber insulation of high quality, good aging characteristics, which is adaptable for use at 300°F or higher."
"This chapter presents a summary of the literature on unsupported insulating films as well as insulating fibrous materials of both organic and inorganic origin."
"This digest considers mineral insulating oils, askarels, and other synthetic insulating liquids."
"Data on the physical, electrical, thermal and chemical properties of a synthetic fluorophlogopite mica are given by Van Valkenburg and Pike (1). Fluorine replaced the (0H)− ions in the mica structure. Physical and electrical properties are comparable to natural phlogopite mica."
"Blakemore, DeBarr and Gunn (1) review recent advances in the theory of the conduction mechanisms in semiconductors and semiconductor-metal systems. A brief account is given of the fundamental concepts of semiconductor theory, after which bulk properties such as conductivity, behavior of minority carriers, magnetic effects, noise and optical effects are discussed. Modern theories of rectification and transistor action at metal-semiconductor contacts and p-n junctions are considered."
"A considerable amount of work has been reported dealing with absorption in germanium in the infrared. One might expect on the basis of a simple energy band model of a semiconductor that germanium should be transparent to infrared radiation for wavelengths longer than the absorption edge showing little structure except that due to ionizable impurities and traps. The actual structure of the absorption spectra are more complicated than this."
"Amelinckx (1) studied growth spirals on SiC and found their form in agreement with the theory of Burton & Cabrera. Weill (2) observed a constant spiral spacing on SiC of 15 microns and a critical nucleus size of 1.2 microns at 0.4% supersaturation. Ramsdell and Mitchell (3) report a new hexagonal polymorph of silicon carbide and Baumann (4) studied several methods of preparing SiC. While pure silicon and carbon react only at the melting point of silicon, Baumann was able to prepare β SiC at 525°C by reacting carbon with a silicon-aluminum-zinc alloy. He also observed that the formation of SiC from SiO2 and carbon proceeds through the initial formation of elemental silicon at approximately 1500°C. He found the transformation of β SiC to α SiC at 2100°C."
"Some excellent books and reviews were published during 1953, which present in well-arranged sequence the present-day knowledge of photosensitive and luminescent materials."
"This standard applies to all single or multipole alternating-current automatic circuit reclosers for the nominal voltages from 1,500 to 23,000 volts."
"It has been widely recognized that there is a distinct need for preferred voltage ratings for aircraft direct-current electric apparatus which will be generally acceptable to manufacturers and users to serve as a basis for voltage standards for aircraft systems and equipment. Many difficulties and much confusion will be eliminated by adopting suitable standard voltage ratings for all aircraft electric equipment. These standard voltages should then be made a part of specifications and nameplates marked accordingly. Apparatus should be designed for satisfactory operation over the voltage ranges given in the table, but with performance not necessarily the same as guaranteed at rated voltage. Performance data and acceptance tests should be on the basis of standard voltages. It is recognized that special applications may require operation over other voltage ranges than those shown as standard."
"It is the purpose of this code to define uniform acceptable methods of making tests to determine that the performance and other characteristics of d-c rotating machines for aircraft comply with specification and application requirements. This code covers rotating machines which operate from or are connected to a direct-current system of an aircraft."
"Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record."
"The following topics are dealt with: electric strength; liquid aliphatic molecular structure; saturated gaseous hydrocarbons molecular structure; solid insulation; corona breakdown; liquid dielectric electrical stress; insulating oil dielectric strength; dielectric dispersion; plasticized polyelectrolyte electrical properties; plasticized PVC compound temperature rating; insulating material thermal evaluation; insulating material temperature classification; dielectric constants; loss measurement; barium titanate ceramic piezoelectric properties; polymonochlorotrifluoroethylene insulated wire dielectric behaviour; and radiofrequency spectroscopy."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"In 1951 it was reported by Salvage (1) that the electric strengths of liquid straight-chain aliphatic hydrocarbons, as measured under d.c. conditions between hemispherical electrodes, increased with increase in the chain length of the hydrocarbon molecules. Until that time, a correlation of electrical breakdown of liquids with known molecular properties had been virtually impossible because of inadequate experimental techniques. The measured electric strength of a liquid is well known to be extremely sensitive to electrode shape and surface condition as well as to the presence of suspended foreign bodies in the liquid itself. Unless a concentrated effort is made to eliminate such complicating factors, the results obtained are usually highly scattered and unreliable."
"While many intensive investigations have been made on a few gases (e.g. the noble gases, hydrogen, nitrogen and air) in an effort to elucidate the mechanism of spark breakdown, little effort has been made to correlate the sparking potential with molecular structure (la). We have attempted to do this by studying a series of closely related saturated hydrocarbons from C1 through C6, including straight chain, branched and cyclic compounds. We have measured also the so-called “corona starting voltage” for these gases placed in an uniform field between glass dielectrics. This is of interest because it represents gas breakdown between electrodes of markedly higher work function than the metals, and also because of its importance in the field of electrical insulation."
"A number of the factors affecting the erosion of solid insulation by surface and internal discharges, which eventually lead to a sufficient reduction in thickness to allow puncture breakdown, are described in this paper."
"The results of a study of the breakdown of a U.S.P. white mineral oil under electrical stress are presented. The extent of the breakdown was studied by measuring the pressure of gas developed during the application of voltage, starting with a system that was initially evacuated. The apparatus was constructed so that thorough degassing of the oil could be achieved prior to subjecting it to voltage stress. The oil was subjected to an alternating voltage (60 c.p.s.) under a stress of 130 kv/cm."
"Detailed analyses are presented for the decomposition products from a U.S.P. white mineral oil subjected to alternating voltage stress. On the assumption that free radical fragments are split from the parent hydrocarbon molecules of the oil, a free-radical mechanism is presented which accounts for the observed decomposition products."
"The electrical investigation described in this report is part of a study of the deterioration of organic materials for the Signal Corps. Communication wire designated WD-1 uses polyethylene as an insulating material protected by an outer jacket of nylon. Until the present time, the resistance of nylon to deterioration by climatic factors was measured by outdoor exposure of specimens of the wire at the Coles Signal Laboratories in New Jersey. This required many months of aging. It was the purpose of this investigation to determine the factors contributing to the degradation of nylon and other organic materials, and to devise an accelerated aging method which would simulate outdoor aging."
"As part of a general investigation of insulating oils, a study was made of the effect that different types of additives have on the dielectric strength of mineral oil and oil impregnated paper capacitors. The additives were chosen from a group of compounds having known effects on the gassing of oils under a.c. voltage and on the d.c. life of capacitors."
"For some twenty-five years the decrease in the measured electric strength of liquids with increasing electrode spacing has been an important subject of study because of its practical as well as theoretical significance. Early investigators were handicapped by the lack of reproducibility of electric strength values as well as their inability to measure accurately small electrode spacings. With the recent development of a reproducible pulsed-voltage technique (1) and a means of determining small electrode separations (1-10μ) by capacitance measurement, we have re-examined this phenomenon using several carefully purified hydrocarbons as the liquid dielectric. Our measurements extend and, in some cases, supplant those of Edwards (1) and Goodwin and MacFadyen (2)."
"Insulated conductors generate corona at high-voltage if there are gaseous spaces in the field. A corona discharge in air generates ozone which a tracks susceptible rubber insulation causing cracking and eventual failure."
"Previous measurements made in this laboratory have shown that elongated and flat molecules, and in general, non-spherical molecules, have a viscosity-dependent relaxation time, whereas the nearly spherical molecules exhibit relaxation times which are virtually independent of the viscosity of the medium. This paper will present some data which substantiates the viscosity independence of the relaxation times of some spherical molecules and will also give evidence of the existence of dipole-dipole interactions in the pure polar liquids."
"By an adaptation of the Roberts and von Hippie “short circuit-line” method the dielectric constant and loss at 3.20 cm. wavelength of dl-camphor, d-camphor and isoborneol have been measured in the solid state over a wide range of temperatures and in the liquid phase just above the melting point. The values here obtained are compared with the radio-frequency values found in the literature. At 3.20 cm. the rotator phase of all three compounds contains nearly the whole dispersion region. The temperature of maximum loss at this frequency is about 38°C for d-camphor, 28°C for dl-camphor and 72°C for isoborneol."
"Previous work on polymeric systems containing dissolved electrolytes (R. M. Fuoss, J. Amer. Chem. Soc., 61, 2329 (1939); D. J. Mead and R. M. Fuoss, ibid., 67, 1566 (1945): W. N. Maclay and R. M. Fuoss, ibid., 73, 4065 (1951)) has shown that such systems, as usually measured, exhibit an ionic conductance which depends on the voltage used, in the measurements and on the duration of the test. Furthermore, the dielectric constant is unexpectedly high and the total a.c. loss factor is much greater than that caluclated from the d.c. ionic conductance. Our present work shows that much of the variation in d.c. conductance can be ascribed to electrode polarization. By partially quaternizing poly-4-vinylpyridine with methyl bromide, plastic electrolytes were obtained in which only the halide ion is mobile. By addition of dibutyl tartrate as a plasticizer, it was possible to vary the internal viscosity and hence the conductance for a given electrolyte content. When measured between colloidal graphite or tin foil - vaseline contacts, these materials show the familiar variation of d.c. conductance with voltage and time. But if they are measured between bromidized silver electrodes (which are reversible to bromide ion), steady d.c. conductances are obtained., which, incidentally, are as much as ten times the maximum obtained with conventional electrodes. It is therefore to be concluded that much of the variation observed in insulation resistance measurements is due to surface effects rather than to volume properties of the insulation compound itself. With the reversible electrodes, the a.c. properties also showed a more normal behavior: the dielectric constant and loss factor of the plastics containing ions were indeed greater than the constants for non-electrolytic plastics, but the enormous anomalous values no longer appear. With surface effects eliminated by the use of reversible electrodes, the residual ionic effect on volume properties can now be studied. It shows a dispersion which may be due to ionic acceleration during each half cycle: an out-of-phase component in conductance would naturally appear as a capacitance tern in the equivalent parallel R - C circuit."
"A specimen holder and associated equipment were required which would permit the accurate measurement of the dielectric constant and dissipation factor of dielectric materials at temperatures up to 500°C and over as wide a frequency range as possible. Holders have been designed for use at elevated temperatures (l, 2, 3), hut none were found which would cover the temperature and frequency ranges required."
"Measurements of dielectric constant, dielectric loss and d.c. conductivity of Teflon were made from room temperature to temperatures just below the 327°C first order transition point and from frequencies of 102 to 105 c/s on the high temperature sample holder described in the previous paper. Throughout this entire temperature and frequency range the dissipation factor never exceeds the smallest observable value, i.e., 2 ×10-4 and, consequently, there is no significant frequency dependence of the dielectric constant at any temperature. The d.c. conductivity is always less than its smallest observable value, i.e., 2 × 10-15 mho/cm, throughout this entire temperature range. The dielectric constant is computed to decrease from about 2.02 at 24°C to about 1.84 at 300°C. Its temperature dependence is in approximate agreement with values predicted from the experimental thermal expansion coefficient and the Clausius-Mosotti equation."
"In recognition of the general need for a more exact method for determining thermal stability of plasticized polyvinyl chloride compounds used for electrical insulation, it should be pointed out that existing methods are inadequate. Amongst the electrical and mechanical properties of an insulating material at elevated temperatures underlies a fundamental property of thermal stability or resistance to degradation. There is no quick way of exactly determining such thermal stability of an electrical insulating material, and the “ten degree rule” can only be used as a basis of making a guess on the probable life of insulation."
"The present AIEE Standard No. 1 - “General Principle upon which Temperature Limits are Based in the Rating of Electric Machines and Apparatus” - was first introduced about 1913. This standard has provided a firm basis for many years despite the arbitrary way in which materials are defined by their chemical composition. In recent years many new insulating materials have become available. The problems associated with classifying these newer materials such as the silicones in the classes as defined in AIEE Standard No. 1 has increased the belief that broad definitions of “composition” might not be sufficient to define temperature classification adequately."
"The introduction in recent years of many new insulating materials has led to the realization that the present national and international insulation temperature standards are not only inadequate but difficult to interpret and often lead to ambiguities. This has resulted in relatively recent decisions go revise not, only our own but also the international insulation temperature."
"The thermal shock resistance of ceramic dielectric insulation is affected by many factors, among them size and shape. These two factors vary so radically that most thermal shock resistance studies have merely been qualitative. The object of this work is to quantitatively determine the thermal shock resistance of ceramic dielectric insulation and the effect of certain physical properties. This is only part of a program sponsored by the U. S. Army Signal Corps on the development of ceramic dielectric insulation possessing high thermal shock resistances."
"A previous paper (Annual Report of the Conference on Electrical Insulation, 1952 meeting, p. 51) contained a brief account of a new phenomenon in the field of ferromagnetics: the spontaneous formation of rectangular hysteresis loops in ceramic ferric-oxide bodies. The rectangular hysteresis loop originates in these ferrites directly with no need for annealing, grain orientation or external stress. The spontaneous development of a rectangular hysteresis loop contradicts the usual conception of the behavior of ferromagnetics. Tae phenomenon is now being studied, at MIT from a theoretical viewpoint. In the present paper experimental data are reported as they have accumulated at General Ceramics during the last year."
"The dielectric relaxation times associated with a single-axis polar rotator which may occupy several sites as it turns about its axis were calculated in terms of the probabilities of transition from one site to another. Two special cases were considered in detail; (a) that in which all of the sites are equivalent, and (b) that in which one site was stable with respect to the others. It was assumed that the only important elementary process was a rotational jump to an adjacent site (single-jump hypothesis). Fluctuations of barrier height were ignored."
"Offenbacher and Callen (1) have shown that the orientation of electrical breakdown paths may be due to the existence of asymmetrical electron scattering from the borders of the Brillouin zone for lattice vibrations. Observations of the orientation of electrical breakdown paths in the alkali halide crystals indicate that other sources of anisotropic electron scattering are present. This additional anisotropy may be due, for example, to the existence of non-spherical electronic energy surfaces within the Brillouin zone. Further details regarding the nature of anisotropic electron scattering are obtained from breakdown studies in more complex crystal systems. Some of the implications of these studies will be considered."
"In the preparation of barium titanate ceramics for dielectric and piezoelectric applications careful attention must be given to a great many factors which determine the ultimate performance of the ceramic. Attention is drawn to structural differences observed with the aid of electron micrographs as the time and temperature of firing are varied. At lower temperatures and shorter firing intervals crystals remain small, grain boundary areas are relatively large and numerous voids are observed where several crystals join. As the time and/or temperature are increased crystals become larger with an improved grain boundary condition resulting in better structure. An optimum condition is soon reached beyond which rounding of edges at grain boundaries where several crystals join is more pronounced. This causes an increase in the number of voids. Accompanying these changes the 1 kc dielectric constant, the piezoelectric constants (thickness mode), and coupling coefficients first improve, reach optimum values and then decline slightly, but the resistance to depoling continually decreases. The resistance to depoling is related to the long term stability of the remanent Polorization."
"The new techniques of nuclear magnetic resonance and pure quadrupole magnetic resonance were discussed, particularly in so far as they contribute to the solution of problems of interest in the study of dielectric properties. Results of recent investigations of the motions of molecules and parts of molecules in molecular solids by these methods show that they are often complimentary to the information obtained by dielectric constant studies. The relationship between “relaxation times” obtained in the two fields and the possible need for a reevaluation of dielectric relaxation theories for solids were presented."
"Improvement in service reliability is a factor in power transmission and distribution which has received considerable emphasis in recent years. Several means for obtaining improvement in service reliability are in general use. These include ground-fault neutralizers, immediate reclosing of circuit breakers, overhead and buried ground wires, arresters and expulsion protector tubes. All have demonstrated an ability to limit outages on transmission and distribution systems. None of these means considered, however, has shown a perfect record in all cases of application."
