"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"To keep our membership abreast of the latest developments in the microwave art, this volume of Transactions is devoted exclusively to the publication of the PGMTT-sponsored papers presented at the Annual 1955 URSI-IRE meeting held in Washington, D. C. The two sessions at which the papers were read were organized by the Group in cooperation with Commission 6 of URSI. The IRE Professional Group on Microwave Theory and Techniques wish to extend their thanks to Dr. E. C. Jordan, Chairman of Commission 6 of the U. S. A. National Committee of URSI and to Dr. W. E. Gordan, Secretary-Treasurer of the National Commission URSI, for their help and advice in the organization of these microwave sessions."
"It has been shown by J.S. Cook that wave power may be transferred from one to another of two coupled waveguides through a variation of their phase constants. It is now clear that this is but one example of a new principle of coupling which is here called \"nomal mode warping.\" Wave power inserted at one end of a coupled waveguide system may be made to appear at the other end with any desired power distribution by gradual warping of the normal mode field patterns along the coupler. In general, both variation of the coupling coefficient and phase constants are required. Much wider bands are theoretically possible than with any other distributed type of coupler. This principle may be applied to dielectric waveguides, birefringent media, and waveguides containing ferrite, to obtain both reciprocal and nonreciprocal couplers."
"Announcements that VHF and UHF transmission had been found possible over distances considerably greater than classical diffraction theory had predicted, aroused considerable interest in Europe. It was felt that if such transmission proved to be reliable, there would be numerous cases where it could provide circuits more conveniently and, perhaps, more economically, than could conventional transmission systems."
"This paper is concerned primarily with the performance of fluorescent lamps as microwave noise sources at 9,000 mc. In particular, it deals with the temperature dependence of the excess noise ratio of an 8-watt lamp running at a lamp current of 150 ma in a 10° E-plane holder. It was found that 1) the bulb temperature is much higher than that with a lamp current of 75 ma encountered in the 90° H-plane circuit investigated previously at 4,000 mc, hence the temperature coefficient of excess noise versus waveguide temperature obtained in the 4,000 mc circuit does not apply, 2) anomalous and unreproducible inversions in the temperature coefficient at these higher bulb temperatures have been observed, 3) these anomalies can be avoided by operating the bulb at lower temperatures, 40°C to 50°C, where the lamps appear to be just as uniform and stable and probably just as noisy as they are at 4,000 mc."
"A rectangular or square waveguide may be loaded periodically by thin capacitive or inductive irises in order to produce phase delay or phase advance, respectively. The amount of phase shift may be calculated with accuracy by making use of available theoretical values of iris susceptance and of transmission line theory. The phase shifting sections maybe designed for low voltage standing-wave ratio (vswr) over a considerable bandwidth. When a square waveguide capable of supporting two fundamental modes is loaded periodically, the irises act inductively for one mode and capacitively for the other, thus introducing a differential phase shift. This differential phase shift may be made equal to 90°, in order to convert linear to circular polarization. Furthermore such a device may be made, by proper choice of parameters, to yield near-circular polarization over a bandwidth of 1.65:1, because the variation in phase delay for one mode and phase advance for the other tend to compensate each other as the frequency is varied. Several of these circular polarizers have been built and tested at X band and the measured results of ellipticity and vswr, as well as broad-band performance check with theoretical values quite closely."
"An experimental over-the-horizon radio link has been installed and tested for several months by the Federal Telecommunication Laboratories. Its chief purpose has not been to study propagation, although several interesting results may appear, nor to establish a commercially usable communication facility, but rather to study the application of this relatively unexploited type of propagation to multi-channel transmission, particularly that using ptm, pulse-time modulation."
"For the precise measurement of noise temperature ratio of a microwave mixer crystal it is common practice to employ a Roberts coupling network in order to make the Y factor independent of crystal conductance. It is shown here that a number of errors are introduced in this method, the chief of which is failure to consider the effect of transit time loading. It is also shown that the use of cathode lead inductance leads to a much improved measurement of noise temperature ratio."
"Symmetry of dipole mode in a dielectric rod permits use of an image system. By replacing lower half of dielectric and its surrounding field with an image surface, support problem is eliminated. Resulting image provides structural convenience and also has very low loss, provided wave is allowed to occupy a cross section many wavelengths square. In millimeter region this is readily achieved. Possibilities of new types of circuit elements in this image system are explored. Combination of optical and waveguide techniques is a characteristic of resulting components. Properties of several transducers between image line and either rectangular waveguide or coaxial line are described. Attenuators, standing-wave detector, and various directional coupler types for image lines are also discussed."
"The Turnstile Junction is a six-terminal pair microwave network, consisting of four coplanar rectangular arms and a circular arm, orthogonal to the rectangular arms, which is excited in two orthogonal TE 1, 1, modes. The characteristics of the network are such that they lend themselves to some very important and unique applications in the microwave field. Making use of the symmetry conditions and the field division properties of the Junction, this paper describes the operation of the Junction under various conditions, with particular emphasis on the applications to which these characteristics lend themselves."
"The \"finline coupler\" is a recently developed microwave circuit element with which it has been possible to assemble hybrid junctions, directional couplers, and polarization-selective couplers capable of operating over bandwidths of at least three-to-one in frequency. Constructional details and experimental results are given."
"For some time, short pulse techniques have played a useful part in the microwave art. In order to obtain better resolution, equipment for generating and viewing microwave pulses about six millimicroseconds long was developed and described previously. The regenerative pulse generator in that equipment was rather complex and difficult to build and adjust. A much simpler generator of pulses with about the same time duration is now being used. It produces short pulses by properly gating a conventional microwave signal source with a traveling-wave amplifier having suitable transient voltages applied to both its helix and its beam-forming electrode. It is easier to construct and operate, requires fewer components, and gives a more stable output. It can be used at any frequency where a signal source and a traveling-wave amplifier are available. The pulse frequency can be set anywhere within the amplifier bandwidth. Both generators are described and compared. Equipment for receiving, displaying, and measuring the pulses is also briefly discussed. Pulse shapes and resolutions are shown on oscilloscope photos."
"A novel rearrangement of the waveguides of a microwave hybrid-T junction has been investigated. This junction is formed by the intersection of four rectangular waveguides, two of which (conventionally E and H arms) are mutually perpendicular, cross-polarized, and have their centerlines in one symmetry plane of the junction; the remaining two waveguide arms are formed by symmetric E-plane bifurcation of the E-arm waveguide extended. This hybrid T possesses special advantages with regard to match and pulse power capacity. A special test fixture was constructed of 1.122- X 0.497-inch rectangular waveguide. Experimental design work was carried out over a 12 per cent range of frequencies from 8.5 to 9.6 kmc. The H-arm reflection was reduced to 2.6-db standing-wave ratio (swr) by simple shaping of the bifurcating element. Addition of conventional matching elements resulted in maximum reflections, within the above band, of 0.8 and 0.6 db swr in the H and E arms, respectively. The ultimate limitation on the E-arm power capacity, as fixed by the intensified electric field at the leading (rounded) edge of the center partition, was computed to be 2 db below uniform waveguide. Experimental corroboration has been obtained."
"Crystal circuit is used wherein switching is accomplished by varying dc voltage across a crystal. Impedance of crystal plus its mount varies from low inductive to high capacitive value. Maximum attenuation frequency of high-pass, series m-derived filter varies with change of parallel inductance or capacitance. If crystal is placed across parallel capacitance, and its bias varied, input impedance of filter is changed. As a result, attenuation vs frequency characteristics are varied. Operating parameters of switch are: frequency, 500-1,000 mc; bandwidth, 20 mc; switching, >55 db; average insertion loss, 2 db; switching time, <1/2 µsec; bias voltage, between -0.6 and +0.6 volts. This unit finds application in radar jamming problems, as well as a low power modulator for rf signals."
"Comparative noise figure measurements in the 400 mc frequency range have been made using commercial noise diode sources, thermal noise sources, and fluorescent lamps as noise generators. The thermal sources were of two kinds, a high temperature source at about 1,000°K and a low temperature source at 4°K. Measurements made with noise diodes yielded results about 1.0 db higher than those made with the thermal noise sources, from which it is inferred that the diodes are not satisfactory primary standards of noise in this frequency range. The effective noise temperature of a standard 6 w fluorescent tube (coupled to a helical line) was determined to be approximately 12,000°K by comparing its noise output with that of the hot thermal source. This is consistent with the figure of 11,400°K reported by Mumford at 4,000 mc."
"The chief advantage of binary pulse systems resides in the possibility of regenerating such pulses at intervals along the transmission route to prevent the accumulation of distortions due to noise, bandwidth limitations, and other disturbing effects. A very important part of any such transmission system is the regenerative repeater employed. This paper reports the results of experiments performed to determine the possibilities of such a repeater operating in the microwave frequency range."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"This paper describes a transformer design chart by which the design of two winding, sixty cycle, low voltage transformers can be made without most of the time-consuming design procedures. Its use is intended for transformer design engineers; therefore, it provides only the winding information that varies for each design. A specific series of cores and operating conditions are assumed. The turns, wire size and approximate winding resistance of both the primary and secondary can be determined from voltage requirements and secondary volt ampere rating. Equations upon which the chart is based are given together with an example problem. A set of rules for applying the chart to other transformer designs is also given."
"A rate-of-charge method for measuring the effective leakage resistance of good quality, high valued capacitors is described. This method yields results rapidly and directly. The effective leakage resistance of various types of capacitors as a function of time of applied voltage at different temperatures was measured. A method for calculating the change in capacitance with time of applied voltage is given. A polytetrafluoroethylene capacitor had the best direct-current properties of any of the types tested."
"The technical limitations of subminiature audio or control frequency transformers or inductors are discussed and some features of their design described. Statistical methods are used to control quality and specification limits as the physical sizes are too small to allow for individual adjustment. A miniature toroidal-shell construction has given results comparing favorably with laminated assemblies below a certain size and in this form, optically-finished lapped joints are employed in the magnetic circuit. The use of subminiature core assemblies as transductors has also been investigated."
"Voltage fluctuations due to direct current flowing in composition resistors have been measured with a National Bureau of Standards experimental test set. A second group of measurements were made as prescribed in the JAN-R-11 Specification. The two measuring systems are described and test results compared. Several groups of commercial resistors of different manufacture have been measured and the results analyzed and compared. Background theory is included."
"A description of the noise generated in composition resistors due to direct-current flow is given, based on measurements of mean-square values of voltage fluctuations. Various commercial resistors including some film types have been measured in a study of the relationships between \"current-noise\" and several parameters such as dc current and voltage, dc power, resistance, duration of current flow, power rating, etc. A description of the measuring equipment and details of experiments and data analyses are also included."
"A system consisting of an input driving amplifier and resolver with shielded output cables used for transmitting the rotor voltages an appreciable distance to a resistive load is considered. This \"R-C\" loading is shown to affect the resolver function error and to change the time phase shift of output voltage."
"A theory is given of the shielding of radio waves by the conducting coatings which are placed over the cockpit dome and windows of an airplane. At low and medium frequencies the shielding arises primarily from the quasi-electrostatic charges which are induced on the surfaces the effects of which increase strongly with decreasing frequency. At higher frequencies the shielding from this source diminishes in importance while that from the induced eddy currents increases in effectiveness."
"A 50-mc transmitter operating continuously at Cedar Rapids, to the west of Ithaca, has been monitored for more than two years, using a northward-pointing antenna intended to reduce signals from the west due toE-scatter and bursts due to meteors. Associated with visible auroral activity, enhanced signals are heard, having a very rapid fading rate, characteristic of auroral propagation previously described. Continuous recordings are made on an Esterline-Angus chart moving 6 inches per hour. Much stronger sporadic-Esignals are observed occasionally entering the sidelobes of the receiving antenna, but can usually be distinguished from auroral propagation by the appearance of the trace or clarity of the beat frequency. This method of identification and separation is thought to be effective because each mode of propagation has its own diurnal and seasonal variations agreeing with characteristics found previously by others."
"The conditions for endfire radiation from a traveling-wave slot are discussed. These are that the phase velocity of the traveling wave be equal to or less than the velocity of light in free space and that the aperture be excited with a strong longitudinal component of electric field. Practical ways of achieving these conditions are mentioned and an approximate analysis based on partially dielectric-filled waveguide theory is used to determine the aperture fields as a function of the antenna geometry. Far-field pattern characteristics are discussed. It is found that the actual pattern may differ considerably from that predicted by simple theory. This is attributed primarily to two things, a finite ground plane and the discontinuity produced by the abrupt aperture opening. Two practical discontinuity minimizers are described. The ground plane effect is analyzed by applying Huygens Principle, and a simple procedure is described for determining the first-order effect. The problem of obtaining pencil-beam radiation in the horizontal (plane of the ground plane) pattern is solved quite simply by using wide-aperture antennas which can be made to operate satisfactorily over better than a 2:1 band. The efficiency and vswr of a practical antenna, with sidelobes in the horizontal pattern at least 20 db down, have been measured over a 2:1 band. The efficiency varied from 65 per cent at the high-frequency end of the band to 55 per cent at the low end. The vswr was less than 1.4 over the band."
"Three theories for the calculation of fields beyond the horizon have been reviewed. It has been seen that these theories rest on the instability of the propagated wave in respect various physical factors (meteorologicalor due to terrain conditions). It appears that the three methods, each having its own advantages, can be used jointly by engineers concerned with long-range communication. 1. Near the horizon, the multiple reflection theory, in good agreement with the classical method, is preferable. 2. For distances greater than 200 kmn, the pure diffraction theory, providing a simplified form of calculation of the preceding theory, is preferable, especially when using simplified formulae for the calculation of the median field and height gains. 3. Neither of these two methods supplies the law around the median value. The calculation of the turbulence field must then be made in order to obtain that law. The same applies in the case of the highly directional aerials calculation of the loss of gain obtained from the polar diagram of the turbulence sources."
"The fluctuations of radio signals at microwave frequencies on overwater paths are explained on the basis of a periodic rise and fall of the water level. From this study, it is seen that the variations in the radio signal strength will contain the frequency of the water-level cycles and also the second and third harmonics of the water-level cycles. This same model predicts that the cross-correlation function of the fluctuations of the radio signal at two vertically-spaced antennas will drop from unity to zero as the separation distance is changed from zero to one-half of a lobe width of a height-gain interference pattern. Although the model assumes reflection from a plane surface, the results of the study successfully explain most of the features of the observed fluctuations of the radio signals on two overwater paths."
"In the design of a modern high-frequency radio direction finder utilizing the Adcock principle, the sensitivity and spacing error limitations of the conventional four-element array requires the use of several arrays in order to cover a large portion of the frequency spectrum. An eight-element array is described which has an operating frequency range considerably greater than that of the familiar Adcock, while still maintaining the simplicity of two-phase goniometer azimuth scanning. Spacing error curves are plotted and an optimum design is selected. It is shown that element spacing values greater than one wavelength are possible, and that frequency coverage is sufficiently great to render considerations other than spacing error the limiting factors."
"A new type of endfire array is described which has moderate bandwidth in the vhf and uhf ranges. Two types of arrays are dealt with; one, an unbalanced type fed with a coxial line, which was studied primarily to test the theory of operation of the antenna; the other, a balanced type fed with unshielded twin-line, which was developed as a receiving antenna for vhf television. This latter antenna has a gain varying from 6 db to 10 db above a dipole over a 50 per cent frequency range, and produces a voltage standing wave ratio of not greater than 2.5 to 1 on 300-ohm twin lead."
"Theoretical and experimental results obtained by Hartig for the end correction for a coaxial line when driving an antenna over a ground screen are corrected. Improved theoretical and experimental curves of the quantity-C_{T}/bc_{0}are obtained, where-C_{T}is the lumped negative capacitance required as end correction,c_{0}is the capacitance per unit length of the coaxial line, andbis the inner radius of the outer conductor of the line."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"This report describes curves of transmission loss vs distance and antenna height derived from an analysis of approximately 159,000 hourly median field-strength observations between 90 and 110 mc. These observations extend over a period of several years and are distributed geographically over the whole United States. The curves contained in this report are believed to be more precise for engineering use than the FCC Ad Hoc Committee curves published in 1949."
"A description is given of a corner-sphere, an aluminum sphere with an excised octant, which serves as a dual-standard echoing body. Its measured and calculated echo patterns are shown. An optical derivation is given for the echo area of the circular corner."
"The use of folded elements in antenna arrays is reviewed and then discussed with regard to an array of vertical monopoles to which an improved impedance match of the feed system is required. A method of calculating the driving point impedances from the self and mutual impedances of related unfolded elements is given."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A theory of nonuniform dielectric media should prove valuable to people engaged in the design of antenna housings or radomes and to those designing absorbers. Such a theory is herein developed. The problem of inhomogeneous media is treated first by means of differential equations and then as a limiting case of an array of panels. Various equivalences such as behavior of a panel at arbitrary incidence angle with that at normal incidence are also discussed."
"Simple expressions have been obtained for predicting the maximum loss in antenna gain when the peak value of the aperture phase deviation is known. It is not necessary to know the exact amplitude or phase distribution function as long as the phase errors are relatively small; and the same expressions may be used for both rectangular and circular aperture cases. Relations have also been established such that the maximum change in the main-lobe beamwidth can be predicted from the knowledge of the amplitude distribution function and the peak phase deviation."
"General results obtained previously by Silver and Saunders for slots of arbitrary shape are applied to the cases of narrow-width half-wavelength slots oriented transverse and parallel to the axis of infinite cylinders with fairly large radii. Sufficient theoretical data are given to describe accurately the major portion of the three-dimensional pattern of both the principal and cross-polarized components of the radiation fields of these slots. Perfectly conducting cylinders of circumferences of 8 and 12 wavelengths are considered."
"Folded unipole antennas less than a quarter wavelength long are used to transform the input resistance of short vertical antennas to a more acceptable value by effecting a transformation within the antenna itself. An equivalent circuit of the folded unipole is derived. The transformation of input impedance is shown to be due to two factors: (1) the division of radiation mode currents between the driven and undriven portions of the antenna, and (2) the flow of currents in a nonradiating transmission-line mode. The effect on the input impedance of reactive elements inserted between the unfed portion and ground is investigated. The theory is verified with an experimental antenna whose input impedance is measured as a function of tuning reactance. The experimental curve is found to be in good agreement with the theory. Two methods of operating the folded unipole are proposed. In the first, only the division of radiation mode currents is utilized to effect the input impedance transformation. This method is applicable to antennas close to a quarter wave. The second method transforms the input impedance by utilizing the transmission-line mode only. It is applicable to short antennas."
"Overviews current society and chapter news and events."
"Expressions are developed by means of the \"current-distribution\" method for the far-zone energy back-scattered from large perfectly-conducting doubly-trochoidal and doubly-sinusoidal surfaces."
"Experimental results obtained with transmissions at wavelengths of 3.2, 9.3, and 24 cms over a 46.3-mile path are presented. With low terminal heights the scattered field was dominant on this path. Tests with a narrow beam antenna indicate that the scattered field arrives at the receiver spread over an appreciable angle. This angle is some five to seven times as large as the Booker-Gordon theory predicts on the assumption that the scale of turbulence is large compared to the wavelength. Loss in ability to receive power in proportion to antenna gain was encountered for antennas with aperture diameters greater than about 20 wavelengths. This loss occurs for aperture sizes considerably smaller than the Booker-Gordon theory predicts. The speed of fading of the scattered field signal increases almost linearly with frequency. This agrees fairly well with the concept (due to Ratcliffe and applied to tropospheric scattering by Booker and Gordon) that fading is due to beating between various scattered field components whose frequencies differ by a fractional Doppler shift due to motion of the scatterers. The speed of fading always increases, during the day, with time of day and does not correlate with mean upper wind speed. This increase with time of day is probably connected with the repetitive diurnal meteorological cycle prevalent in Arizona."
"J.R. Pierce, Editor of the Proceedings suggested that certain views regarding publications in the Transactions or Proceedings presented to the membership. It is felt best to present these ideas for comment as prepared i by him in their original form. Questions frequently arise-in Editorial Board discussions and among the reviewers of PROCEEDINGS papers-as to what should be published in the PROCEEDINGS OF THE IRE and what should be published in the various TRANSACTIONS. This statement will not settle the matter, but it does clarify the present situation and speculate about future possibilities. It, is not easy to lay down rules which will cover all papers. There is certainly a place in the PROCEEDINGS for review papers which summarize recent progress in a field, and for tutorial papers which teach new concepts and techniques of analysis. The PROCEEDINGS asks experts to write such papers. A paper may describe an important new invention or device. If this device has considerable present or potential importance, and if it has real novelty, the membership of the IRE should know about it promptly in a paper of length adequate to explain it clearly. Perhaps the author will want to treat at length many important details which are of interest largely to specialists; he should do so in the TRANSACTIONS. In all cases, we should ask, \"Should people outside a particular Professional Group be told about the contents of the paper? Why should they be told? How much should they be told to make the telling a real technical communication and not a news note?\""
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The purpose of this article is to present graphs useful in the evaluation of the effects of quadratic aperture phase errors on antenna near and far fields. Two types of aperture amplitude illumination were considered: (1) uniform, and (2) cosine with zero edge intensity. Four graphs give the radiation characteristics for various phase coefficients."
"The validity of the conventional integral equation formulation of cylindrical antennas is often criticized because of an approximation of the kernel of the integral equation. If the antenna is of the form of a cylindrical tube there is an exact integral equation formulation. By means of the variational technique the integral equation for the cylindrical tube can be solved approximately. When the length of the tube is large compared to its diameters the input impedance of the structure is found to be the same as if one had used the approximate integral equation at the very beginning of the analysis. This new procedure therefore clarifies one main ambiguity involved in the early works of the theory of cylindrical antennas based upon the approximate integral equation. It also enables us to treat the problem of relatively thick cylindrical antennas."
"The literature on nonuniform transmission lines has grown slowly but steadily since original papers by Heaviside appeared at the close of the nineteenth century. (Heaviside's contributions have been almost completely overlooked by later writers.) The number of papers, although not overwhelming, is now large enough to warrant preparation of a bibliography. References to periodicals are in Part I, to texts in Part II, and to a selected group on horn theory in Part III."
"The curved passive reflector is analyzed theoretically by the aperture-field method and the results are presented in the form of gain characteristics and radiation patterns. It is seen that curving the reflector produces a focusing effect in addition to the basic diffraction phenomenon, thereby providing increased gain as compared with the flat reflector. The limiting value for the flat reflector gain is 6 db while the gain of the curved reflector increases continually with reflector size when properly illuminated. Radiation patterns are computed and it is shown that the effect of reducing tower height is to widen the main lobe and to move the side lobes outward and depress them. It is concluded that, in general, the curved reflector causes lower side lobes than the flat reflector. The dish illumination is shown to be relatively unimportant with respect to the total antenna gain but the side lobe levels are reduced when the dish illumination is made more uniform."
"Surface current distributions on aircraft are examined for wing-cap and tail-cap antennas in the hf band using scale models. Current paths involved in structural resonances are investigated, and the effect of such resonances on antenna impedance is discussed. Measured results are also applied to the interpretation of radiation patterns. A technique is described for measuring the relative amplitude and phase of the surface current, and for determining the direction of current flow. In this method the detector is placed in the model and the probe is driven by an external source of rf power. This technique permits the frequency to be changed easily. The system is more sensitive than others described in the literature, since a higher power source can be used when it is not required to be enclosed in the aircraft model."
"The usual method of measuring electric field distributions comprises a receiving antenna at the point of observation, connected by means of a transmission line to receiving apparatus at some distant point. The principal advantage of the method described here is that it eliminates the transmission line and thus makes possible many measurements which cannot be done by the usual method. It is based on the fact that the echo from a thin straight conducting wire is proportional to the square of the component of electric field parallel to the wire. The practical application at centimeter wavelengths is described. The method has proven most valuable in a variety of problems involving flush mounted directional antennas, radomes, artificial transmission lines, etc."
"Techniques are described for predicting the effect of the \"oceanic duct\" in increasing the coverage of low-sited microwave radars. Prediction is made on a monthly basis using statistical data on sea temperature, air temperature, humidity, and wind speed. A large area in the northwest Pacific is used to illustrate the methods used. The basic prediction approach is to deduce refractive index profiles from available data parameters and to use Schelkunoff's ducting criteria to predict radar propagation effects. Monthly contours are then drawn over the area for each radar band showing the probability of extended coverage."
"In the construction of a radar antenna the basic problem is to give the antenna reflector such a design that the scattering pattern will conform to the required power distribution. An approximative method is given for the determining of the central section of a reflector with point source feed and enveloping the osculating paraboloids, as well as a formula for the computation of the beam reflected by this surface. The central section obtained may be improved successively until adequate accuracy is attained. The method of computation is illustrated by an example."
"The existing angle-of-attack indicator spike and ram-pressure tubes on a high-speed aircraft are modified to permit their use as telemetering antenna elements. The antenna system utilizing these elements provides for operation of three airborne telemetering transmitters. Operation of each transmitter and its antenna is independent of damage to or malfunction of the other components in the system, and no multiplexing loss is suffered in the antenna system. Since current flow on the fuselage is limited to the vicinity of the antenna elements, antenna performance would be little affected by variations in configuration of aircraft with similar basic design, and direct adaptation of this system to other aircraft of this type, therefore, is relatively straightforward."
"High-precision, cw, missile-tracking systems are subject to multipath errors due to ground reflections and reflections from neighboring objects. To reduce the effects of ground reflection, advantage may be taken of the characteristic of frequency modulation to discriminate against a weaker interfering signal. This paper discusses the magnitude of the phase error reduction to be obtained by use of frequency modulation. It is demonstrated that the phase error can be reduced to any desired value if sufficient band width is utilized in the frequency modulation signal and significant improvement over an amplitude modulation system can be obtained with a wide-band FM system."
"Lack of an adequate test site often requires the use of on-axis defocusing to obtain simulated Fraunhofer radiation patterns in the optical-Fresnel region from microwave reflector-type antennas. This note presents a way of determining the required amount of defocus from the viewpoint of aperture phase correction. It is shown that the important part of the main lobe of the radiation pattern can be approximately reproduced in the optical-Fresnel region with proper amount of defocus. For a given amplitude illumination function, the change in beamwidth with the position of the primary source can also be predicted."
"An expression is developed for the radiation pattern of an array of thin axiaI slots arbitrarily disposed around the circumference of an elliptic cylinder. Calculated azimuthal patterns are presented for single slots on elliptic cylinders of vanishing thickness. The results can be applied to approximate the pattern of practical cylinders having very thin cross sections."
"A transmission line is useful as a primary standard of impedance if there is a formula relating its wave resistance to its cross sectional shape. For this purposes the round wire between parallel planes is computed to a very close approximation. The method is based on dividing the usual single pole into a pair of spaced half-poles, between parallel lines on the plane of cross section. The resulting fomula covers all shape ratios to a high degree of approximation. Simple explicit formulas are given for the shape ratio and the wave resistance, each in terms of the others sufficiently close for practical purposes. For examples a line made of perfect conductors (assumed) and air dielectric (laboratory conditions), has a wave resistance of50.000\\pm.003ohms if the ratio of radii is 0.54850 =1/1.82315."
"Rumsey's \"reaction concept\" is applied to scattering problems by considering volume polarization currents which generate the scattered field. The scattering cross section is discussed. Approximation formulas are developed and illustrated by calculations for the echo width of a circular cylinder as a function of dielectric constant. Calculations are made for four plane-wave type trial fields in the cylinder; these are compared with the exact solution and with integral equation solutions through the second order. In this case the reaction method gives better results than the integral equation method, for the same amount of labor."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A specially constructed combined radio telescope-radio sextant has provided continuous measurement of the power from the sun. The change in received power with zenith angle has been used to estimate the attenuation due to the atmosphere at the wavelength of 8.7 mm. Values ranging from 0.031 to 0.067 db per km at sea level were observed for days with a wide variety of weather conditions. Qualitative statements concerning attenuation under conditions of unusually heavy rainfall are made."
"The Omniguide antenna is a new type of high-gain antenna developed for UHF-TV broadcasting. Waveguide components are employed in the design instead of coaxial line elements to increase the power-handling capacity, Separate picture and sound inputs are provided which are decoupled independent of frequency, thus eliminating the need for a frequency-selective combining Filter. A reflection-absorbing circuit increases the picture input bandwidth."
"The available experimental data on back scattering from the sea surface (\"sea clutter\" ) are described, and discussed with reference to the physical processes involved. It is shown that the scattering elements of the surface are illuminated by a combination of direct end indirect fields, the latter being \"reflected\" by surface elements closer to the radar. At low angles, these interfere destructively, giving rise to the so-called \"critical angle,\" polarization dependence, \"spikiness,\" and steeper frequency dependence. A theory is developed in which the elemental scatterers are taken to be the small patches or \"facets\" of the sea surface. This theory is shown to give characteristics which are in general agreement with available experimental data."
"Air-borne field strength measurements have been made over large sections of the Territory of Alaska in the frequency range of 203 kc to 407 kc. Theoretical field strengths are computed after the methods presented by K.A. Norton for both a plane and spherical single-layered earth and the theoretical values are compared with experimental data to obtain the effective ground conductivity. A discussion of the method of analysis is presented, and a map of the effective conductivity of wide regions of the Territory is included. The effective conductivity is shown to be between 0.5 and 5 mmho/m over most sections of Alaska."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings, Part 1, Antennas and Propagation."
"A general technique has been developed for achieving a circularly polarized antenna with omnidirectional azimuth coverage. The technique permits the immediate design of such an antenna with a great variety of possible vertical coverage patterns. The problem of satisfying any desired vertical coverage has been attacked by postulating three basic types-a broad beam, a narrow beam and a shaped beam. Designs for each of these three types have been achieved."
"If a signal is propagated by a scatter mechanism through a turbulent medium, the characteristics of the signal at a receiving site beyond the horizon are a function of: 1. The size of the important scattering volume 2. The velocity of the scatterers The size of the important scattering volume is determined by the scattering coefficient of the turbulent medium and the geometry of the radio link if the antenna beam-angles are large, or by the intersection of the transmitting and receiving beams if the beam-angles are small. The size of the volume determines a length at the receiving site over which signals are correlated and this in turn controls the height-gain function, and the maximum aperture of an antenna which yields its full theoretical gain. The volume size also controls the multipath effects and, hence, signal distortion and bandwidth. If the scatterers are moving with a certain drift velocity and a turbulent velocity, the signal observed at a fixed receiving site fluctuates with time. The contribution of drift velocity to the fluctuations arises from a special pattern moving by the receiving site. The turbulent velocity contributes to the fluctuations due to the beating of frequencies shifted by a Doppler effect from the carrier frequency. Measurements of height-gain, antenna-gain, correlation distances, and fading rates on S-and-X Band signals propagated over a 100 mile path are in agreement with predictions."
"The Naval Research Laboratory has instrumented an R5D aircraft as an airborne radar and wave propagation laboratory. The installation includes four radar systems (with frequencies ranging roughly from 1 to 10 kMc), associated radar recording and calibration apparatus, and an extensive meteorological instrumentation for measurement of related atmospheric conditions. All radars operate synchronously from a centralized control. The antennas, along with the transmitter-receiver systems, allow the transmission of vertical, horizontal, or circular polarization, with simultaneous reception of the transmitted polarization and its orthogonal component. This aircraft is intended for investigations in two general fields, back-scattering (radar) and wave propagation. In the radar field, it may be used for the determination of the back-scattering properties of individual targets or of area-extensive targets such as ground, sea, or precipitation. In the propagation field, it may be used as one terminal of a one-way transmission link, such as in investigations of radio ducts and atmospheric scattering."
"Studies made and reported by the National Bureau of Standards in 1953 on the correlation of 1046 Mc radio fields on spaced antennas at distances far beyond the radio horizon are supplemented by more recent measurements. Data taken from three vertically spaced dipole antennas for longer periods of time allow correlations of instantaneous fields to be determined for various fading rate conditions. Measurements were made on the National Bureau of Standards Cheyenne Mountain transmission path in Colorado and Kansas at a frequency of 1046 Mc, the receiving location being at an angular distance of 27 milliradians (for standard atmosphere), i.e. anoroximately 150 miles beyond the transmitter radio horizon. In addition to the correlation of instantaneous fields, the correlation of hourly median fields and the diurnal variation of the received signal are shown. Simultaneous measurements from a parabolic reflector antenna are used to indicate the loss in gain relative to the expected free space gain of a large aperture array."
"The excitation efficiency of surface waves is the ratio between the power in an open-waveguide mode and the total power available at the feed. It should be maximized if the open waveguide is used as a transmission line; and it should be a predictable quantity if the guide is used as an antenna whose pattern is to be modified in some specified manner by the feed radiation. A method based on Fourier transforms is used to calculate the excitation of surface waves by arbitrary sources. The chief result is that the amplitude of excitation is proportional to the gain of the source in free space in the complex direction that corresponds to the propagation constant of the surface wave. Some of the predictions have been verified experimentally."
"A waveguide with closely spaced transverse slots cut in the broad wall is here named a serrated waveguide for brevity. The slotted portion of the guide is assumed to be fed by a TE01mode. An analysis of the resulting fields in the serrated portion of the guide has been undertaken and the results to date are sketched below. A detailed report of the experiments performed is given. The radiation pattern produced by the fields in the gaps in the serrated wall may be shaped through the use of several control parameters which will be discussed. As an antenna, the serrated waveguide offers flush-mounting, bandwidth, and some versatility in beam shaping through independent control of phase and amplitude over a quasicontinuous aperture."
"Although much work has been done, both theoretically and experimentally, on surface wave transmission lines and surface wave radiators; no data have been available regarding the radiation properties and equivalent net-work representation of radiating discontinuity on the surface wave transmission line. An experiment was designed to obtain the free-space radiation patterns and equivalent network representation of a discontinuity on a corrugated surface-wave transmission line as a function of the parameters of the discontinuity and line. Data obtained were then used to formulate an empirical theory which furnishes the four-terminal network representation and free-space radiation characteristics. These data and the empirical theory allow the design of shaped beam antennas, physically realized by surface-wave transmission lines utilizing corrugation discontinuities as the radiating elements, to be carried out by current linear array design theories."
"Propagation measurements made in recent years have indicated that the attenuation of UHF signals transmitted over beyond-the-horizon distances is substantially less than that predicted by diffraction theory. The observed signal levels are generally attributed to scattering or partial reflection from non-uniformities in the troposphere or lower atmosphere, Average losses in excess of free space of the order of 70 db are observed at distances of 200 miles beyond the horizon. Due to changes in the troposphere, the median received signals undergo variations about the average value of as great as\\pm 20db. In addition, severe rapid fading is usually present. Apparently modulation bandwidths of as great as one megacycle can be transmitted using antenna beamwidths of a few degrees. In order to overcome the large propagation losses, high gain antennas, high power transmitters, and sensitive receivers are used. Parabolic reflector antennas as large as 60 feet in diameter are employed together with high power klystron transmitters of up to 10 kw power output. Frequency modulation techniques similar to those employed in line-of-sight systems are common. The receivers use low noise-figure pre-amplifiers and wide-band fast acting limiter-discriminator circuits for operation with the weak received signals. To reduce the effects of the rapid fading, space diversity reception with either switching or combining of the receiver output signals is usually employed. Using these techniques, multichannel UHF communication systems have been designed for operation with as many as 60 voice channels over distances as great as 200 miles beyond the horizon with long-term reliabilities of 99.9% or more. The research reported in this paper was supported jointly by the Department of the Army, the Department of the Navy, and the Department of the Air Force under Air Force Contract No. AF 19"
"In recent years, considerable effort has been devoted to the development of lenses for use as focusing objectives with primary microwave radiators. This paper demonstrates a geometrical optics analysis of a double-convex, solid dielectric lens and two types of variable index lenses useful in microwave applications. Each of the three lenses is symmetrical with respect to a reference plane. Because of this symmetry, the lenses focus incoming waves from either side of the reference plane, so that a single focusing objective can be used with more than one feed. Design equations and construction information are given along with experimental results."
"VHF propagation by means of ionospheric scatter has been under intensive investigation at the National Bureau of Standards since its discovery in early 1951. The main characteristics of this mode of propagation are now well known and are reviewed. Particular emphasis is placed on practical engineering considerations, such as spaced antenna diversity requirements, choice of polarizations and antennas, and antenna siting. Results are given for such matters as the optimum range of distances and optimum range of frequencies for practical communication. A complete two-way communication system, extending in three stages from Main to Northern Greenland, has been built for the United States Air Force. This system, which provides four radioteletype channels continuously, has been in operation for more than a year and performs entirely satisfactorily from the viewpoint of propagation for considerably better than ninety-nine per cent of the time on the two northern links."
"It is possible to transmit a continuous signal from point to point by taking advantage of specular reflections from ionization trails formed in the E-region of the ionosphere by meteors of all sizes. A continuous signal is provided whenever such reflections are present in sufficient numbers so that they overlap in time. The factors controlling the degree of overlap are: (1) radio frequency, (2)power (overall circuit sensitivity), and (3) length of path. For best overlap, the individual meteor reflections should be as strong as possible, as numerous as possible, and as long-enduring as possible. If all other parameters are kept the same, lowering the radio frequency increases individual echo strength and duration; raising the power and circuit sensitivity increases not only echo strength and echo duration, but also number of echoes detectable above the noise; and finally, increasing the path length also increases individual-echo duration."
"During the past five years, it has been definitely established that useful radio signals at all frequencies can be received consistently at distances far beyond the horizon. These facts have forced a considerable modification of the theories, concepts and charts found in most textbooks and handbooks. Even more important, these facts have opened up many interesting radio possibilities, particularly in the field of fixed point-to-point communication. This relatively long distance transmission has been called by various names, such as, beyond-the-horizon or extended range transmission, but perhaps it is most generally known by the term, \"scatter\". It is important to note that the word \"scatter\" is used in a specialized sense which is actually closer to the layman's concept of reflection than it is to the opposite concept of scattering in all directions. More recently, the term, \"forward scatter\" has been used in an attempt to minimize this language difficulty. There are two different types of beyond horizon or scatter transmission. One type is the ionospheric scatter which is useful for telegraph signals at frequencies below about 50 mc for distances up to a thousand miles or more. The second type is tropospheric transmission which is useful over a very wide band of frequencies but is limited for wide band transmission to distances of a few hundred miles. A review of the principal characteristics of tropospheric transmission shows that the differences between line-of-sight and beyond-the-horizon transmission are not as great as has been commonly believed. Until a few years ago, the general expectations were that, first, the beyond horizon signal would not be reliable, second, it could not be used effectively because antennas would not realize their free space gain, and, third, the useful bandwidth would be very small. All of these doubts had a logical basis and contained an element of truth. However, these fears have been exaggerated. It is now clear that reliable point-to-point radio circuits can be engineered for path lengths of 150 miles or more to provide good quality multichannel voice circuits or possibly even television for radio relay purposes. Such circuits do require high power and large antennas but they are technically feasible. It is expected that the use of beyond horizon circuits will supplement but not supplant line of sight systems. The principal applications will probably be for point to point circuits over difficult terrain."
"Tropospheric transmission beyond the horizon has opened up many new radio possibilities. The principal application seems to be for point to point communication services at distances of 150-200 miles or more. This type of transmission is characterized by rapid and selective fading, which suggests a possible limitation on the useful bandwidth. Radar pulse tests made about 5 years ago by Bell Telephone Laboratories at 3700 mc showed that one microsecond pulses were not substantially widened after transmission over distances up to 285 miles. From these tests it was postulated that bandwidths of several megacycles might be available. A more convincing test required large antennas and a high power CW transmitter that could be modulated. Suitable equipment became available in late 1953 and wideband tests have been carried out by Bell Telephone Laboratories in cooperation with Lincoln Laboratory of Massachusetts Institute of Technology. These tests were made on a 188 statute mile path between the Bell Telephone Laboratories' site at Holmdel, New Jersey and the MIT Round Hill field station at South Dartmouth, Massachusetts. The transmitter used an experimental klystron developed by Sperry to provide a power output of about 300 watts at 5050 mc. Outside of the power amplifier, the basic radio components were from the conventional TD-2 radio relay equipment which is used in the Bell System nation-wide microwave network. 28 ft. parabolic antennas were used at both ends of the path. The receiver had a bandwidth capability of up to 30 megacycles and a noise figure of 9 db. Two types of tests have been made to determine the distortion caused by selective fading. First, a 12 voice channel multiplex system was tested for inter-channel crosstalk. In this case a 1.3 megacycle filter was inserted in the receiver IF to improve its performance. when this test showed that the distortion caused by selective fading was negligible for this bandwidth, a second test using a much wider band was proposed. Since television transmission is known to require a wide band, television tests were made using both a window pattern and television pictures. In this case also no significant impairment in system quality could be attributed to distortion in the transmission medium. This test circuit does not have adequate signal to noise margin to provide commercial reliability with the present transmitter power and antennas. Provision of a satisfactory signal to noise ratio seems to be the major problem with this type of transmission, since there appears to be no inherent bandwidth limitation up to several megacycles."
"The circular traveling-wave antenna consists of a conductor formed into a circle, which is fed at one point and so terminated at the diametrically opposite point that only a traveling wave exists cn the antenna. Consequently the beam of the antenna can be steered in azimuth by moving the feed point and the load point around the circumference of the circle. Azimuthal radiation patterns have been calculated for antennas having circumferences of 3, 4, 5, and 6 wavelengths. In addition, experimental patterns have been obtained for antennas having circumferences cf 1.75 tc 14 wavelengths. The patterns for both the radiation intensity and the\\phi-polarized component of the electric field display a single main lobe in the direction of the load end of the antenna, with rather high-level side lobes. In an attempt to obtain radiation patterns having lower side lobe levels, the effect of using two and three concentric circular traveling-wave antennas of different radii has been investigated. The patterns of these antennas, which have diameters of less than two wavelengths are comparable in side-lobe levels to those obtained with rhombic antennas."
"The application off etching and printing techniques to electronic circuits makes feasible the construction of microwave strip antenna arrays both From practical and economical viewpoints. Many conventional broadside curtains used at lower frequencies were impractical to fabricate in the region above 1000 Mc. Progress in the design of strip conductors as microwave antennas indicates that many of these arrays can now be adapted for operation at microwaves and fabricated with sufficient accuracy to be truly useful. Some of the components involved in the design of strip antennas, such as balanced lines, twists, baluns and power dividers have been investigated. Complete strip arrays consisting of up to 80 elements have been tested. The gain, bandwidth, and radiation patterns appear comparable with those obtained from the corresponding arrays used at the lower frequencies for which the same theory of operation applies."
"Ground oontrolled approach (GCA) landing of aircraft under conditions of poor visibillity is a rather natural application for microwave radar. This fact has been aptly demonstrated by the AN/CPN-4 system and its improved successor, the AN/FP-l6. These GCA radars, which operate at X-band, obtain elevation and azimuth information by sweeping two adjustable fan beams across the airplane being controlled. The sets operate quite successfully in landing a single aircratt and can handle two or three at a time on a staggered approach. However, there are a number of improvements needed in GCA radars, among which are the following: the ability to handle the increased air traffic at large commercial and military airfields; an increased range on small jet aircratt under adverse weather conditions; reduction of ground clutter; and increased resolution. In an attempt to obtain these and other improvements, the Rome Air Development Center has sponsored the development of a volumetric scanning GCA antenna through a cross-servicing arrangement with the US Naval Research Laboratory. The new X-band antenna, utilizing four pencil beams will rapidly scan the 7°x 20° sector solidly at rates up to tour frames per second."
"The highest gain antenna in the world today is the 50 foot parabolic reflector built for the Naval Research Laboratory for operation at wavelengths as short as 8 mm. A description of this precision antenna, which is used for research in radio astronomy, is presented. The mechanical aspects of the dish are given primary consideration. Fabrication procedures, design considerations and a description of the unique surface machining apparatus are treated -- these techniques yielding a reflector with an over-all surface accuracy of\\pm 0.030inch. A mention is made of a few of the recent advances in radio astronomy made at NRL through the use of the Big Dish -- testifying to the successful completion of the project."
"Consideration of the scope of the items in the PGA Briefs section of this issue should prove impressive not only because of the diversity of organizational activity in the audio field, but because of the comprehensive publication effort to provide thousands of engineers and scientists, in various organizations both here and abroad, with the information required for advancemenotf audio engineering and technology. This issue starts the third official volume of regularly scheduled IRE-PGA publication. The majority of the papers published so far have been written by people with considerable previous experience as technical authors. Yet quite a few papers of technical competence, even excellence, have been contributed by younger authors. The new awards system soon to be inaugurated will provide additional recognition and awards for outstanding authors in each of these categories."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"This paper covers the development of loudspeakers and microphones and gives many illustrations of commercially available units dating from 1915 to the present time."
"The equipment used in the manufacture of magnetic tape records by RCA is described. The choice of tape speed, track width, and pre-emphasis used is explained, and the desirability of standardization on these possible variables is emphasized."
"The necessity for equalization in phonograph amplifiers is explained, and numerous examples are given. The difference between the action of equalization controls and tone controls is explained. Examples are shown in terms of response curves for a particular amplifier."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"By an overwhelming vote of PGA members, according to B.B. Bauer, Secretary-Treasurer, the IRE-PGA Constitution has been altered with respect to the method of selecting the National Chairman and Vice-Chairman. Article 5, Section 3, of the Constitution restricted the selection of Chairman or Vice-chairman of the Group to a holdover member of the Administrative Committee. The new constitutional amendment has broadened the base for selection of Chairman or Vice-chairman. The final membership vote in favor of the new Constitutional Amendment was over 1600 'for,' and 4 'against.'"
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A new method of obtaining audio power spectra is described. Advantages of the new method are speed of use and great frequency detail. The new method is based on the production of a \"composite signal\" which has a time continuous power spectrum. The composite signal method can be used with many types of signals such as speech, music, traffic noise, et cetera."
"Stereophonic sound has become of vital importance to industry. The subject has been studied for many years, but the published material is scattered. This paper summarizes the fundamental theory underlying stereophonic sound so far as it has been published, and gives examples of how the theory is employed in representative practical situations. Fundamental differences between ordinary binaural listening and stereophony are pointed out, as well as similarities. It is shown that much qualitative but little quantitative information has been reported. Factors which aid some stereophonic effects are shown to be detrimental to others, and methods of minimizing the undesirable conditions are suggested. Applications to recording are discussed."
"A technique for obtaining noise spectrum levels using a heterodyne type sonic analyzer is described. The analysis of a specific noise recording is shown as an example. A method is also described for obtaining spectrum levels directly from the cathode-ray tube photographs."
"The material presented in this paper gives a selection of \"ready-made\" triode cathode-follower circuits applicable to the problems of impedance matching to audio filters and transformers. Curves resulting from breadboard tests are given on five tube types, and illustrative examples are included."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The majority of phonograph pickups and pickup amplifiers in use today fall into two classes: (1) Velocity-responsive (magnetic) pickups operating directly (or with the aid of a transformer) into high-gain amplifiers with input impedances of 20,000 ohms or more; and (2) displacement-responsive (piezoelectric) pickups operating into low-gain high-impedance amplifiers, with input impedance of the order of 1-5 MΩ. There is a general belief that pickups of Class 1 cannot be connected to amplifiers in Class 2, and vice versa. This belief is only partly correct. Magnetic pickups generate voltages of 10-30 millivolts at 1 kc on standani test records and require a degree of gain and compensation not available in amplifiers of Class 2. However, piekups in Class 2 often generate voltages of .2-.8 volts or more, and by use of simple networks can be used satisfactorily with amplifiers of Class 1. The author discusses a method for converting an amplitude-responsive pickup into a velocity-responsive pickup."
"An error in calculation has been brought to our attention by Clifford E. Berry of the Consolidated Engineering Corporation, Pasadena, CA, USA. The error appears in Fig. 4 of the paper, \"Lipstik Condenser Microphone System,\" by J.K.Hilliard and J.J. Noble, on page 165 of the November-December, 1954 issue of TRANSACTIONS OF THE IRE, vol. PGA-2, no. 6. The correction has been made in a drawing showing open circuit RMS voltage produced by thermal agitation in the real component of the impedance of a parallel resistor and condenser, which should be substituted for the original Fig. 4."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to Society memebers as well as the rest of the engineering community."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to Society memebers as well as the rest of the engineering community."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to Society memebers as well as the rest of the engineering community."
"The perceptibility of flutter at various rates, in recordings of speech and music, was investigated in relation to the development of a flutter meter which will give a direct indication of the effect upon programs as judged by listeners."
"The behavior of a number of microphones at high sound levels is described. Some of the problems encountered in making measurements at high sound levels are discussed."
"The author of the paper \"Triode Cathode-Followers for Impedance Matching to Transformers and Filters,\" which appeared in the TRANSACTIONS OF THE IRE, the March-April issue, 1955, has drawn attention to the following omissions in the text. In Figs. 7-17 (pages 31-36), the titles which identify the tube types were inadvertently deleted. It is suggested that readers who anticipate use of these curves pencil the appropriate identification onto the figures. They should read as follows: Fig. 7-1/2-12AC7 '(B\" (except for GAIN, which is for 1/2-12AX7 \"B\"), Fig. 8-1/2-12AT7 \"A,\" Fig. 9-1/2-12.4T7 \"B,\" Fig. 10-1/2-12AU7 \"A,\" Fig. 11-1/2-12AX7 \"B\" (except for GAIN, which is for 1/2-12AU7 \"B,\" Fig. 12-1/2-6BL7 \"A,\" Fig. 13-1/2-6BL7 \"B,\" Fig. 14-6AQ5 \"A,\" Fig. 15 - 6AQ5 (\"B,\" Fig. 16-12AU7 \"A\" (both halves in parallel), Fig. 17-12AU7 \"B\" (both halves in parallel). Note that because of the interchange of the GAIN data of Figs. 7 and 11, some of the data required in Example (1) of the text will be found in Fig. 7."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The principles of design for electronic organ tone chambers are outlined. The differences between the design goals for loudspeaker enclosures for organs and for other purposes are explained in fundamental terms. The construction of new organ tone cabinets for indirect radiation is described in detail. A few organ installation examples are given."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to Society memebers as well as the rest of the engineering community."
"According to the Chairman, Andrew B. Jacobsen of the Phoenix Laboratory of Motorola, Inc., in Phoenix, Arizona. the use of tapescripts by various IRE organizations has expanded considerably just recently. More than 75 copies, divided rather evenly between student chapters, IRE sections, and Audio chapters, have been distributed since March, 1954. The peak of tapescript activity appears to occur in April, and this year many request for material could not be filled due to lack of additional copies."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A multi-loop, push-pull power amplifier of exceptional characteristics is described. It employs special circuits to maintain accurate push-pull signal balance throughout and to hold the static or steady-state dc cathode currents of the output tubes equal. A pair of 807 tubes are used in class AB2to yield 65w average power output at less than 1 per cent intermodulation distortion with 30 db of over-all negative feedback. Using local positive voltage feedback in addition, the intermodulation distortion is 0.1 per cent at 45w and less than 0.2 per cent at 60w. At full power output, the -0.5 db points occur at 19.8 cps and 22.4 kcps. The rise time of the amplifier is 3 µs, and its transient response and recovery from overload approach the ideal. There are no peaks at the ends of the response curve. A noise level of -106 db referred to 60w output is attained. Extensive measurements of amplifier characteristics under various conditions are described."
"The variation of distortion with available parameters for low level rc-coupled triode stages is investigated and, the possibility of minimizing second harmonic distortion utilizing signal-source impedance and the nonlinear, noninfinite dynamic grid resistance as an amplitude-correcting device, is explored and found to warrant further consideration. Some data on distortion-level reproducibility for randomly-selected tubes is presented and the limitation of local feedback as a distortion reduction scheme is pointed out. Variation of distortion with signal level is discussed and demonstrated."
"The motion of electrons and holes is considered in relation to the PN junction and it in turn is considered in relation to the junction transistor. Electrical properties, equivalent circuit diagrams, and limiting conditions of operation of junction transistors are discussed. Special equations and features of the common base, common emitter, and common collector configurations are developed and tabulated."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The PGA is sponsoring an Audio Session at the National Electronics Conference, which is being held this year at the Hotel Sherman in Chicago, IL, USA, on October 3, 4, and 5. the program had been tentatively set as follows: (1) \"The Electrostatic Loudspeaker\" by Robert J. Larson, speaker (Jensen Manufacturing Co.): (2) \"Efficiency and Power Rating of Loudspeakers\" by R.W. Benson, speaker (Armour Research Foundation); (3) \"Bells, Electronic Carillons, and Chimes,\" by F.H. Slaymaker, speaker (Stromberg-Carlson Co.): and (4) \"Energy Content of Recorded Music\" by John Overly, speaker (Electro-Voice)."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to Society memebers as well as the rest of the engineering community."
"Test records are often calibrated by measuring the width of the optical pattern formed when a sharp beam of light is reflected from the Modulated grooves. An error has been found in this measurement owing to diffraction of light at the edges of the pattern, which results in a fuzzy ending and a general enlargement of the pattern width, especially at high frequency. A new optical method has been devised for calibration of test records by the use of interference-line patterns. Two sets of interference lines have been identified: (a) Uniformly spaced lines which are related to the recorded frequency, the angular velocity of the record, and the wavelength of light (these have been called the A lines); (b) lines with variable spacing which are related to the amplitude of modulation and to the wavelength of light (these have been called the B lines). B-line patterns may be readily related to the theoretical width of the optical pattern free of diffraction error, with the resultant improvement in the accuracy of test-record calibration."
"Push-pull stages require two opposite-phase driving voltages of the same amplitude. In conventional push-pull amplifiers, this is not a problem, in single-ended push-pull amplifiers, however, this requirement limits the types of usable drivers because of the apparently unbalanced structure of the push-pull stage. Four possible drivers, namely, the split-load phase inverter driver, the cathode-coupled phase inverter driver, the extended cathode-coupled phase inverter driver, and the Coulter driver, are analyzed with stress on the balance of the driving voltages."
"The junction transistor may be represented as an active network in terms of various two-terminal pair equivalent circuits. The principles of design of audio-frequency amplifiers consisting of one or more transistor stages may be outlined in terms of these equivalent circuits. The effects of applying feedback to the amplifier configurations are discussed. Various methods for minimizing drifts of the quiescent point of operation of transistor amplifier stages are considered. Signal-to-noise ratios, important in the design of high quality amplifiers, are developed in terms of device noise figures."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The author comments upon a graph of needle load values in home phonographs during the past three decades. Anyone believing in 'prediction by extrapolation' will readily see that lower needle loads are soon due to arrive, and should reside somewhere in the shaded area of the graph. From all indications there are important benefits to be derived from lowering needleloads, and these facts should not escape designers of phonograph equipment."
"The July, 1955 issue of the 'Journal of the Acoustical Society of America' contains 24 papers on Acoustics and Audio. Five of these, thought be of special interest to the members of the IRE Professional Group on Audio, are abstracted here. Additional articles of interest are also noted."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The American Standards Association has recently issued the \"American Standard Method for Specifying the Characteristics of Analyzers Used for the Analysis of Sounds and Vibrations,\" Z24.15-1955. This standard is limited to the requirements of analyzers for use in analyzing as a function of frequency a complex electrical signal of relatively long duration, such as that obtained from an electroacoustic or electromechanical transducer. The purpose of this standard is to enumerate the important characteristics of such analyzers and to specify the manner in which these characteristics shall be described. Definitions are given for the following terms: Wave Filter, Band-Pass Filter, Nominal Upper and Lower Cutoff Frequencies, Nominal Pass Band Center Frequency, Nominal Bandwidth, Analyzer, Continuously Adjustable Analyzer, Constant-Bandwidth Analyzer, Constant-Percentage-Bandwidth Analyzer (Proportional- Bandwidth Analyzer), Effective Bandwidth for Random Noise. Methods of Specifying Characteristics are listed for the following quantities: Frequency Range and Accuracy, Input Voltage Range, Input Impedance, Source Impedance, Output Voltage, Output Impedance, Load Impedance, Power Requirements, Typeo f Indication, Pass Band Response, Extraneous Influences, Size and Weight, Bandwidth, Transient Response."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to Society memebers as well as the rest of the engineering community."
"Standard designs are flexible enough for most uses of tape recorders. Special machines have been devised for unusual applications such as pronouncing dictionaries, length measuring devices, time compressors, dc and square wave recorders, memory devices, and automatic machine control. The construction and operation of typical devices are reviewed."
"Junction transistors may be employed as audio frequency power amplifiers which will supply up to several watts of output power. The fact that there are two basic types of transistor (n-p-n and p-n-p) allows a freedom of circuit design which is impossible with electron tubes. In power amplifier design the usual small signal assumptions cannot always be considered valid. Hence, large signal techniques must be applied in order to describe the behavior of the device. The non-linear distortion associated with large signal operation is discussed in terms of the transistor characteristics and methods of reducing this distortion are outlined. Operation in several circuit connections is considered with particular emphasis on the common emitter configuration."
"Summary form only given. Under contract to the Power Sources Branch of the Squier Laboratories, we have been studying the application of power transistors as dc-to-ac power-conversion devices. Basically a transistor oscillator is used to replace the more conventional vibrator in battery-operated equipment. There are many advantages to be gained from such a substitution and indeed in many respects the transistor is able to meet specifications that would be impossible with mechanical vibrators. A simple push-pull circuit, which was originally developed at Squier Laboratories, has proved to have almost ideal characteristics. The circuit oscillates with square waveforms in such a manner that the transistors operate very close to their maximum possible efficiency. In addition to the two transistors the only other necessary components are a transformer and rectifiers if a dc output is desired. There are no critical components, and efficient operation can be obtained even with a reasonable mismatch between the transistors. The basic circuit is not always self-starting; however, methods have been developed which will ensure that the oscillations will start under full load. If a load slightly in excess of full load is placed on the circuit, the oscillations cease and both transistors shut off, which prevents further transistor failures as a result of temporary shorts in the load."
"Summary form only given, as follows. There are many circuit applications involving the use of transistors where it is necessary, because of the unavoidable presence of vacuum tubes, to have a high dc voltage when only the basic transistor supply voltages are available. This high voltage can be obtained by using a transistor power converter. The power converter is an rf type power supply using a transistor to make the power conversion. Basically it is composed of a transistor oscillator. step-up transformer, dc rectification and filtering. The oscillator operates with a low supply voltage and the frequency may be set high enough so that the transformer and filter components will be small. It is often necessary to operate systems, which may include a power converter, over a wide temperature range. When a constant output voltage from the converter is needed, some form of temperature stabilization must be used to compensate for the change in the transistor parameters. Presented in this paper is a transistor power converter having temperature stabilization to reduce the output voltage variation. The converter uses a P-N-P alloy-junction power transistor to make the power conversion and delivers an output of 0.85 W. The output voltage is 655 V having a variation of ± 15 volts when using a temperature compensating network employing a thermistor. This voltage variation, over the temperature range of -40°C to + 65°C. is small compared to the uncompensated converter that changes from 440-725 V over the same range."
"Summary form only given, as follows. A description is given of some of the characteristics of a circuit whereby a number of transistors may be connected in series so that the sum of their collector-to-emitter voltages appears across a common load. This circuit permits large output-voltage swings to be obtained without transformation and provides a convenient means for adding the power outputs of a number of units without requiring that their characteristics be closely matched. The analysis presented treats the circuit as a cascade of commonbase stages with specific values of external base resistance. The contributions of the individual stages to the total output is determined by the manner in which the base resistances are selected. Three cases are treated: one providing equal transistor voltages; another, equal power increase per stage; and the third, equal power output per transistor. Comparisons of the properties of the three cases are presented in tabular and graphical form. Consideration is given to a common-emitter input stage. Several practical circuits are described and experimental results shown to illustrate their performance."
"Summary form only given. This paper is a report of an investigation which included measurements of relevant 2NG8 PNP-power-transistor parameters and the developmetlt of a method for the design of high-power switrhing circuits with good trigger sensitivity and dc stability over wide temperature ranges. These design techniques can similarly be used for NPN power transistors. The relevant parameters of the simplified dc equivalent circuit are found. The methods and results of the measurements of these parameters are presented, including their variation with temperature and current. This data enables the designer to design a flip-flop circuit for a particular bias condition with temperature considerations as follows. When the ambient temperature is raised, excessive thermal collector current will cause the emitter junction of the OFF transistor to inject carriers. This is a cumulative effect resulting in the OFF transistor turning ON. A means of compensating for this instability is to use a suitable base bias to keep the OFF emitter from injecting carriers. On the other hand, excessive compensating.bias results in a circuit that will not have a stable ON state."
"Summary form only given. The most serious causes of frequency instability are the effect of temperature on parameters of transistors and the variation of supply voltage. There are some circuit arrangements which can considerably minimize these effects. A stability in the order of 20 parts per million for ±10 percent changes in supply voltage has been obtained for a variable-frequency oscillator at a frequency of 1 megacycle. By using a 100-kc crystal, a frequency stability better than ONE PART PER MILLION PER 1 VOLT SUPPLY VOLTAGE OR PER DEGREE CENTIGRADE RESPECTIVELY can be obtained over a wide range of supply voltage and temperatures. Output voltage of this oscillator is in the order of 3 volts rms, for a supply voltage of 12 volts and current drain of 2 ma. The maximum frequency change is 2 cps for a variation of load resistance from 100,OOO ohms to 1 ohm. PER TEN MILLION PER DEGREE CENTIGRADE can he At frequency 1 mc. a frequency stability better than ONE PART obtained."
"Summary form only given. This paper explains a multistable circuit which appears to be well suited to transistor characteristics. This circuit utilizes those characteristics of junction transistors which are inherent in the device and do not require close control during manufacture. Desirable features of the circuit are that it can theoretically have any number of statically stable states and that these states may be achieved using only two transistors with alpha less than one or one transistor with alpha greater than one. Inherently, the circuit is able to count up or down with equal facility. The circuit achieves multistable states by controlling the feedback and hence the stability of the circuit. The amount of feedback in any circuit may be controlled by a number of parameters of the circuit. If one of these parameters is made to vary in a non-linear manner over the operating range of the circuit, and if certain other conditions are imposed, the circuit may be caused to have several regions of stable and unstable operating characteristics. Several means of varying the parameters of a circuit will be shown that will achieve the desired effect."
"Summary form only given, as follows. Several applications of junction and point-contact transistors to basic computer circuits are described. These circuits emphasize types of applications best suited to the particular characteristics of these two types of transistors. The circuits employing junction transistors utilize the low input impedance and low saturation resistance of this type of transistor to achieve high circuit efficiency and a large reduction in the number of diodes required in many conventional computer circuits. Among these circuits described are flip-flop and counter stages, and logic circuits using transistors instead of diodes. The point-contact circuits make use of the regenerative properties and high speed capabilities of this type of transistor for such applications as pulse amplifiers and pulse shapers. Also described is a single-transistor bistable non-saturating type circuit for use in ring-counter applications and a four-transistor non-saturating counter stage for binary counter applications. Operational compatibility between these circuits is well illustrated. Performance data and circuit waveforms are presented together with general design considerations and life data, where available."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Summary form only given, as follows. A two-transistor, collector-coupled multivibraior is representative of the class of relaxation circuits which includes most multivibrators and flip-flops. Although the specific circuits may differ in the details of triggering and stable point of operation, the circuits of this class of relaxation circuit will have in cnnmon the all important regenerative switching behavior as the circuit switches from one state to the other. In addition, the transient behavior of transistor operation immediately following the regeneration (having to do with the drive of one transistor off and the other into saturation) will be similar. The analysis of the recovery from these last mentioned effects is the treatment usually referred to as multivibrator transient analysis. Piece-wise linear approximations can be made of the transistors during a complete cycle of operations; and during the regeneration period when both transistors are traversing the active region, a simple, linear equivalent circuit is shown to be valid. Thus, a linear transient analysis of the regeneration period can be made. The analysis provides not only the rate of switching, but also simple formulas with which to calculate the actual switching time. The analysis also provides a fundamental restraint, relating transistor and passive circuit parameters, which must be satisfied to obtain regenerative switching. This restraint leads in turn to an approximate upper bound on the maximum repetition rate of the multivibrator. In setting up the regeneration analysis, elementary design data are established to obtain desired output swings, repetition rata for the astable mode and sharp rectangular waveforms. E.g., it can be shown that for a sharp, rectangular waveform, a. should be grater than approximately 0.97"
"Summary form only given, as follows. This paper is divided into two sections. Section I describes the results of approximately six million transistor hours of operation on various types of transistors from four different manufacturers. The data was taken on two different transistor systems containing digital type circuitry and on a set of transistor flip-flop circuits operated under semi-controlled conditions. The types of transistor failures that have occurred will be listed and the general aging trend will be discussed. This section will be accompanied with slides showing some of the circuitry. Based on the above life data along with the experience gained in operating transistor systems, Section II will cite certain conclusions leading to the design of reliable switching-type circuits. In particular a design procedure is demonstrated in the form of a clamped-level multivibrator. This section will show how initial discrepancies in transistor parameters are taken into account along with long term drifts in 'B' and 'Ico.' Aside from the fundamental design practices involved, the multivibrator circuit is chosen because it is relatively difficult to obtain the functional equivalent of a vacuum tube multivibrator due to transistor idiosyncrasies. These idiosyncrasies include low input impedance and hence slow circuit response because of the large coupling capacitors necessary for even small delays. The paper will be concluded with comments regarding clamped vs. unclamped logic and large system operation."
"Summary form only given. This paper describes a voltage comparator which uses a junction transistor and a silicon diode. The comparator circuit is essentially a blocking oscillator which generates a sharp output pulse when the input waveform passes through the reference level. By taking advantage of the special properties of the semiconductor devices, the comparator can be designed to have an accuracy of ± 5 millivolts throughout a temperature range of 20°C to 4OO.C. A theoretical analysis of the comparator is given with particular emphasis placed on accuracy and switching speed. It is shown that by preceding the voltage comparator with a transistor dc summing amplifier, the reference level for the comparator may be adjusted over a range of ± 25 volts"
"Summary form only given. The maximum frequency at which a transistor can oscillate is a figure from which much of the high-frequency performance of the transistor can be predicted. For transistors of any given type, this measurement can be made easily in a circuit in which the tunedcircuit frequency and the feedback are the only two adjustable elements. The maximum frequency is in itself a useful transistor parameter. However, in many cases it is more desirable to determine the cutoff frequency of the transistor action, the so-called alpha-cutoff frequency, or fca. Since the maximum frequeng of osallation is that frequency at which the transistor has a unilateral-power gain of unity, the gain at lower frequencies can be directly related to the ratio of operating frequency to fmax. In addition, the efEaency of oscillation, which is the ratio of rf output power to total dc input power, may also be defined in terms of this frequency ratio. It is shown that the unilateral power gain varies at 6 db per octave. It is also found that for surface-barrier transistors the efficiency of oscillation is given approximately by the formula: Efficiency = -0.8 log10 (f/fmax)."
"Summary form only given, as follows. A transistor oscillator with good amplitude and frequency stability and a low second-harmonic output is desirable to supply the excitation power for a second-harmonic-type magnetic modulator. In the circuit presented here, the required stability is obtained by designing the circuit to be as independent as possible of the transistor characteristics. The grounded-base transistors operate to transfer a fixed current alternately from one side to the other of a tuned center-tapped transformer. The transistors act as switches, either essentially open circuit, or conducting at negligible collector voltage. Hence, the switched current can be determined by an external circuit. The special emitter switching circuit is designed to provide rapid switching and to deliver constant emitter driving current essentially independent of the emitter characteristics and the driving voltage. A low value of second harmonic, less than 0.01 per cent, is obtained by the balanced nature of the circuit and by adjustment of the emitter switching circuit to provide equal on-off periods in each transistor. Drifts in this on-off time caused by changes in emitter resistance are reduced by a large stabilizing resistance in series with the dc portion of the emitter switching circuit."
"Summary form only given. Junction transistor flip-flops for operation up to l00,000 cps can be built using two junction transistors and two transformers per stage without any clamping diodes or elements other than resistors and capacitors. The differential transformer arrangement, in conjunction with the current flowing in one or the other transistors, provides a trigger switching action to direct the flow of energy from the trigger source to the transistor which is on to turn it off. The succeeding pulse energy is switched by the differential transformer anangement to the second transistor causing it to turn on appropriately. This differential switching action can be obtained by the use of saturable transfonners by impedance matching. The general rule in electronic circuits that a transformer coald be traded for a triode section or a transistor holds pretty well in circuits described here. The differential transformer arrangement used under saturation conditions provides a particularly advantageous design for high power output circuits suitable for driving pen motors, paper punches, or other relatively high power elements."
"Summary form only given, as follows. A low-frequency medium-gain amplifier and phase discriminator using germanium transistors is described. The circuit operates a relay from the output of an a-c resistance bridge. The output of the bridge is controlled by a thermistor temperature-sensing element. The circuit was developed for use in a continuous, non-scanning temperature monitoring system for which each monitored point required a separate bridge, amplifier and discriminator output relay. The major design problem was the requirement that the circuit be operable over a wide range of ambient temperature. Particular emphasis is placed on the solution to this problem. A method of bias-stabilization with direct coupling of the amplifier transistors is presented and a means of stabilizing the discriminator circuit is described. Design consideration and performance data are discussed."
"Summary form only given, as follows. Due to the dependence of transistor small-signal parameters on the d-c operating point (emitter current Ie and collector voltage Ve), the gain of a transistor amplifier stage decreases with either decreasing emitter current or decreasing collector voltage. Thus, we have two principles of gain control: Ie-control and Ve-control. The variation of the small-signal parameters and of the gain with Ie, and Ve, is discussed in the first part of this paper on the basis of experimental and analytical results. The appreciable control power necessary to vary I, or V, (of possibly several stages) can be obtained most advantageously by operating the controlled stages as a d-c amplifier of the control signal. AGC systems using Ie, and Ve, control have been developed; they are described and compared. Problems of distortion, detuning, and bandwidth variation are discussed."
"Provides a map showing the location of the Penn Sherwood Hotel."
"Summary form only given. The receiver circuit includes a mixer, oscillator, 3 IF stages, detector, audio stages, beat frequency oscillator and a frequency calibrator. A sensitivity in the order of 1 uv for 10 db S+N/N ratio is attained at frequencies up to 24 mc through the use of a surface barrier transistor in the input circuit. In order to make the relatively sharp IF selectivity characteristic independent of the variations of transistor characteristics with battery voltage and other military surface conditions, an electromechanical filter is employed. Automatic gain control presents an unusual problem since power is required to change the operating point of the controlled stages. By using a reflex-type circuit in the detector sufficient d-c power gain is obtained to realize a 60 db range and a figure of merit of approximately 10 db. The negative-resistance characteristics of point-contact transistors are utilized in the simple divider circuits employed in the frequency calibrator circuits. These follow a 200-kc crystal oscillator and provide an output repetition rate of 5 kc."
"Summary form only given. This paper presents the result of a theoretical and experimental study of the principle. and mechanism of superregenerative detections using junction transistors. The analysis of superregenerative detection is based on the study oE a transistor oscillator, the criterion of oscillation. the build-up and the decay of oscillation. Due to the dependence of transistor parameters on the operating point, the loop gain of a transistor osallator can be controlled by changing the emitter current (Ie) and/or the collector voltage. (Vc) . This property makes the control of a transistor oscillator by an external quench signal possible. Either the linear mode or the logarithmic mode of detection can be obtained. Self-quenched superregenerative detection also can be obtained. The circuit design and the bias of the transistor have to be such that the initial emitter current (Ie) is small but the loop gain of the oscillator is enough to start the oscillation. Then the bias point of the transistor should be able to change corresponding to the amplitude of oscillation. Typical properties of a superregenerative detector, such as high gain and noise, which are similar to the tube circuit are also present in the transistor circuit."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The correlated and uncorrelated parts of the induced grid noise of a triode can be measured by plotting the equivalent saturated diode current of a tuned stage as a function of its input capacity after neutralizing the anode-grid capacitance. Measurement results on 6AC7, 7AF7, and 6V6 tubes are presented. The large uncorrelated part found with the 6V6, which has a relatively large grid-cathode distance, indicates that the uncorrelated part cannot be explained by a breakdown of the Llewellyn-Peterson theory at close grid-cathode spacings. The large uncorrelated part may be explained by considering the tube as made up of a large number of small independent diodes in parallel. The percent of correlation increases when the grid is made more negative since the spread in electron paths is reduced. The noise figure of a stage cannot be improved by detuning if the correlated part is small."
"Consider an array of parallel perfectly-conducting wires extending between and normal to two infinite parallel perfectly-conducting planes. One wire acts as a resonator, having natural frequencies at which it is an integral number of half-wavelengths long. One might at first think that n wires would have n times as many natural frequencies. It turns out, however, that the modes characteristic of the system of many wires are plane electromagnetic waves with the field normal to the wires. All the modes of the array have frequencies for which the wires are an integral number of half-wavelengths long. In circuit terms, the wires, which act as resonators, are uncoupled. The electric and magnetic couplings are equal and opposite."
"A three-terminal amplifying device having the characteristics of a super-alpha Junction transistor can be constructed by making suitable interconnections between ordinary medium-alpha Junction transistors. It is shown that the circuit properties of such a device are very similar to those of a vacuum tube for many applications. Voltage-follower and voltage-amplifier circuits using composite transistors are described. Characteristics of two-stage and three-stage composite transistors are illustrated graphically."
"Fourier transforms have been used in a theory of determining the dynamic sensitivity of cathode-ray tubes at very high frequencies. The exposition of the theory is facilitated by means of analogous conditions in the theory of inhomogeneous transmission lines recently presented. Thus, for instance, the simplest case with parallel plates neglecting stray fields and exit displacement is analogous to the exponential line. The method of determining the dynamic sensitivity of a cathode-ray tube having various forms of its plates is presented. Finally the problem of constructing a cathode-ray tube having an optimized sensitivity curve is discussed."
"Power transistors capable of providing five watts output are now in production. Because these units are relatively non-linear in their characteristics, large signal graphical analysis of their behavior is necessary. To facilitate this, the static characteristics of the grounded base, grounded emitter, and grounded collector circuits are presented for several temperatures. Since power transistors are seldom driven with a high impedance source, the input voltages must be known as well as the input currents. These characteristics are drawn to indicate both simultaneously on one chart. The power that must be removed from the junction of these transistors requires that the mounting for the transistor be thermally adequate to remove the heat without allowing the temperature of the Junction to exceed its critical value. The temperature power relationship is discussed and the theoretical size requirements for a heat dissipator are shown for free air convection and forced convection."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The electron plasma frequency reduction factor has proved to be a fundamental design parameter in all types of microwave tubes employing long electron beams. This factor is here calculated for a variety of beam shapes and drift-tube cross sections, and the results are presented in a series of graphs. One interesting result is that the reduction factor for an annular beam depends primarily on the width of the annulus and is relatively independent of the radius of curvature of the beam."
"A number of experimental traveling-wave tubes have been built for operation in the 3.2 centimeter wavelength region, and series of noise measurements have been made on these tubes. The periodic dependence of noise figure on the separation between the electron gun and the circuit entrance of the traveling-wave tube has been investigated and various characteristics of these curves have been discussed. A modified noise theory has been suggested; comparisons between it and the experimental results show fair agreement. Noise figure reduction by the use of a triode gun has been investigated for two of the experimental tubes, and a method of analysis that should lead to theoretical justification is suggested."
"The writing speed and tonal range properties of dark trace tubes are analyzed and figures of merit are outlined. Experimental results are presented. Writing speed of a dark trace tube varies linearly with the ratio of beam current to spot size. The information writing rate varies directly with the beam current and inversely with the square of the spot size. The tonal range of dark trace tubes varies directly with the ratio of maximum contrast to spot size."
"An experimental study has been made of the filter helix properties of a periodically loaded helix, using a special traveling-wave tube. The filter helix is shown to possess filter-like frequency pass bands and stop bands and a phase velocity characteristic such that forward- and backward-wave phase velocities are separated, making the filter helix a useful circuit for traveling-wave amplification at high ka (ratio of helix circumference to free space wavelength) without danger of backward-wave oscillation. Certain difficulties associated with backward-wave oscillation frequency pushing were found to arise in filter helices, but useful gain was obtained at ka greater than 0.5 using filter helix techniques."
"A square-law circuit element with operating frequency range from zero into the vhf region is described. Its dynamic range and accuracy capabilities vary with the particular conditions under which it is operated; accuracies within less than one per cent of full scale and output dynamic ranges of over 100 db have been achieved. Frequency response limitations and possible sources of error are analyzed. Experimentally determined characteristics are presented and noise properties, dynamic range, and accuracy potentialities evaluated."
"The double-base diode is a single-junction semiconductor triode. When an electric potential is applied between the two ohmic contacts, a negative-resistance is obtained between the junction and one of the ohmic contacts. This negative resistance is bounded by two positive-resistance regions, one of considerably high magnitude which corresponds to the cut-off state and one of very low magnitude which corresponds to a saturating condition. The magnitude of the negative resistance is related to the ratio of majority-to-minority carrier mobilities. Small-signal low-frequency equivalent circuits are developed to approximate the double-base diode in each of the operating regions of the negative-resistance characteristic and equations for current and voltage amplification, input and output resistance and power gain are developed. The important circuit parameters are related to the physical constants of the device."
"Some characteristic features of a reflected flow of electrons are described, in particular variations of the virtual cathode and transit time with respect to current. This has been accomplished by finding new solutions to well-known basic equations treated earlier by Fay, Samuel, Shockley, Salzberg, Haeff and others. The results are applicable to problems where the current is varied while earlier solutions were considering the potential as variable. The theoretical results are found to be in agreement with experimental results obtained on reflex klystrons and space-charge deflection tubes."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A simple broadband noise generator was constructed which produced substantial noise power over the frequency range from 10 mc to 1,000 mc. The measured noise factors were 90 db or better over this range. The noise was generated by an electric arc discharge that operated in a conventional RC relaxation oscillator circuit. A continuous spectrum was produced because of the natural incoherence in the pulse repetition rate of such a circuit. The mechanism of operation is described, along with an experimental tube that was constructed for the purpose of demonstrating the principle."
"A point contact transistor with electrical properties similar to those obtained using phosphor-bronze collectors can be made by forming a lithium-doped collector point in a conventional manner. The use of lithium-doped points enables the observation of significant changes in transistor parameters during short periods of moderate power aging. In particular, n-type transistors exhibit a large decrease in reverse current with accompanying loss of alpha. It is proposed that changes in the effective donor concentration in the formed region are responsible for these decreases, in view of the high diffusion rate and low solubility of lithium in germanium. These results emphasize that point contact collector characteristics can change appreciably as a result of surface independent mechanisms."
"An integral equation method for evaluating the electronic behavior of traveling-wave amplifiers is given. This method is utilized to obtain the effects of a thick beam and variations in dc density and dc velocity across the beam. Curves of the space charge parameter 4QC and impedance K are obtained for thick beams, which compare favorably with those of Pierce."
"A theoretical study has been made of the focusing of high-current electron beams by means of the aperture effect. The aperture effect is obtained by a triode electron optical system. An equation for describing the beam profile in the system has been described. Both the condition for obtaining the minimum radius of the beam and the condition for optimum focus have also been worked out. Two numerical examples are treated to illustrate the triode focusing of electron beams with two different total current magnitudes of 50 and 250 µa. It is found that by using this triode system the final energy of the electrons and the total current of the electron beam may be adjusted separately."
"Previous theoretical treatments concerning coupled helices in the absence of a beam, while useful for predicting approximate behavior, are not satisfactory for many tube applications because the presence of a beam can substantially modify the behavior. This paper presents a theory of propagation for coupled concentric helices in the presence of a coaxial beam and computes therefrom properties pertaining to coupler and attenuator applications. Included are curves of the propagation constants as functions of coupling coefficient and beam velocity, curves of the inner and outer helix voltages as functions of the physical dimensions, and curves which permit the frequency response for various designs of input and output couplers to be calculated. Sample calculations show that the proper length for input and output couplers is greater than the length for complete energy transfer between helices in the absence of the beam (a criterion commonly used in design work). Calculations also illustrate the related fact that the frequency for maximum transmission through a coupler is lower when the beam is turned on than when off. Only preliminary work has been done to date in computing the properties of a coupled-helix attenuator."
"The paper describes a method for the investigation of stray fields caused by surface charges on the glass supports of cathode-ray-tube guns. These stray fields may penetrate into the gap of an unshielded electrostatic lens and contribute to the astigmatic distortions of the entire electron optical system. The focused spot on the screen of the tube then shows deviations from the ideal circular shape. The investigation of the stray field influences was carried out utilizing the positive ion component of the electron beam. Discoloration patterns on the second grid aperture due to ion bombardment indicated the expected distortion of the focused spot. Various gun designs were tested in this manner."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"In the Post-Deflection-Focus Color Kinescope, there is an array of parallel wires next to the phosphor screen for the purpose of focusing the electron beam and for deflecting it up and down in order to change colors. Expressions are derived for the deflection sensitivity and focusing properties of such a system which are applicable for all points within the picture area. The theoretical results are compared with experimental measurements; good agreement is obtained. Contour maps showing the variation over the grid plane of deflection sensitivity and the voltage ratio for optimum focus are included."
"Silicon-aluminum alloy junction diodes have been made that have rectifying properties up to frequencies of 500 megacycles per second. Recovery times from storage effects are of the order of 0.1 microsecond."
"In this paper some characteristics of switch circuits using junction transistors are analyzed. The switch properties result from the large changes in small-signal admittance of one junction of a transistor when the bias polarity of the other junction is reversed. The characteristics analyzed include the small-signal, low-frequency conductance and the associated potentials. The circuits are suitable for low level modulators and commutators."
"Using both an analog computer and an approximate analytical method, the equation describing the beam shapes which result from a uniform pencil beam of electrons entering a periodic magnetic field has been studied. The investigation has been primarily directed toward beams emergent from ideal cathodes only partially shielded from the magnetic field. Cases of both small and large scalloping have been considered. Curves relating the magnetic field coefficient α and the space-charge coefficient β are presented. A previously proposed relationship between α and β for small scalloping is shown to be inaccurate for large scalloping. Stable solutions for the motion of an electron beam having no thermal velocities are obtained for values of α less than 0.66 and in addition they are also found for some values of α greater than 0.66."
"An electronic theory of the operation of tape-helix traveling-wave structures is given. This includes the case of traveling-wave amplifiers and backward-wave oscillators operating on any space harmonic. The method of solution is based upon an integral equation for the longitudinal electric field which is solved approximately for the case of small beam currents. This method is equally applicable to thin beams, thick beams, and annular beams with or without a transverse variation of dc density or velocity. Explicit expressions are obtained for the impedance and space-charge parameter of each space harmonic."
"A method is given for computing the efficiency of traveling-wave amplifiers with high gain and low C, including the effects of space charge and attenuation. The ballistics of the electrons is governed by the Boltzmann transport equation which, together with the circuit equation, is solved in a power series expansion of the input voltage. Only the first two terms of this series are computed and various nonlinear results are given in the form of curves. It appears that for small C and small convergence parameters, overtaking affects the nonlinear operation slightly."
"The results of probe measurements along a shielded helix terminated in a plane conducting \"short\" are given. These results seem to indicate that the higher-order fields at the short are reactive and that the minimums are shifted out from the normal 180-degree position. The amount of this shift seemed to be relatively constant at approximately 38 degrees from 500 to 2,000 megacycles for a particular helix. A very approximate analysis of the helix short is made where the helix and its image wire are considered as a tapered two-wire transmission line. The position of the first minimum is determined by a numerical integration using the transmission line equations. This analysis predicts the correct direction of the shift of the minimum and also gives a rough idea as to the amount of this shift over the given band of frequencies."
"The start oscillation condition for the backward-wave oscillator and the operation of the traveling-wave tube amplifier at the Kompfner dip point are described from the point of view of the coupling of two modes of propagation. Growing waves are not involved. Two waves are sufficient when the tube is more than a half plasma wavelength long. Operation in this \"large space charge\" domain is inherently simpler than in the \"low space charge\" domain. The start oscillation condition and the Kompfner dip condition are simply expressed in terms of the coupling constant between modes, HL = (2n ± 1) π/2, where n is an integer. In addition, the uncoupled modes must have the same velocity. The result is also expressed in terms of the more familiar parameters CN and hL. The effect of loss in the circuit mode is calculated. When the two waves carry energy in opposite directions, growing waves result. This case is discussed briefly."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"The program described herein was intended to yield an extremely versatile, broad band, voltage-tuned oscillator capable of covering the full operating bandwidth of RG-91/U wave-guide. Simplicity of operation, extreme ruggedness, and ease of fabrication were of prime consideration. Operating characteristics of the final tubes are described in detail. Particular emphasis is placed on the reproducible tuning characteristics, the insensitivity to frequency pulling, and the unusually narrow output frequency spectrum which exhibits roughly one tenth the width of good klystron spectra."
"The present paper describes the development of two low-power backward wave oscillator tubes covering the frequency range 7.6-12.4 kmc/sec, and 11.6-18.0 kmc/sec. The initial design of the tube geometry is based on a Pierce type analysis for the starting current and frequency, which includes the effects of space charge and circuit loss, as well as the effect of the dielectric loading of the support structure. After successful completion of the X-band tube, scaling was employed to arrive at the proper dimensions of the high frequency tube. These tubes employ unifilar helix circuits, hollow beams, modified Pierce type electron guns using impregnated cathodes. A sectioned air-cooled electromagnet package consuming approximately 200 watts provides for the necessary confining magnetic field, while permitting the use of waveguide coupling throughout. The total weight of the magnet and tube assembly is 7 pounds. A helix-to-waveguide match with a maximum VSWR of 2:1 was developed resulting in very smooth tuning and power output curves. Minimum power outputs in the X- and Ku-band tubes are approximately 50 and 25 milliwatts, respectively, and power variations in the frequency range are about 4:1. Ten such tubes in each range were built and the results are discussed in detail."
"With a fixed frequency 4J52 pulsed magnetron, quantitative results have been obtained for the relations between the cathode position and operating characteristics such as efficiency, frequency pushing, spectrum shape, starting-time jitter, and pulse-to-pulse amplitude and frequency jitter."
"An 800 mc continuous-wave magnetron will be described which utilizes a cathode-grid structure on which a standing wave may be set up around the cathode close to the source of the emission to introduce a locking wave in the electron stream. An experimental magnetron has been locked in frequency over a range up to and exceeding 10 mcs. The frequency locking range varies as a function of the locking power and also of the reciprocal of the output power. The output power of the experimental magnetron has been anode-voltage modulated from virtually zero power to several hundred watts without attendant frequency modulation and with negligible phase modulation. However, load conditions, especially in the case of phase modulation, are critical. The locking power is from 5 to 30% of the output power depending upon the percent modulation and the frequency locking range. The efficiency of the magnetron, utilizing the cathode-grid structure, was found to be slightly less than that of a magnetron having a normal cathode."
"The tube to be described was developed to fill the need in microwave systems for a single light weight unit which would assure complete crystal protection. The design objectives were standard TR functions with a 40db insertion loss at standby condition with low power requirements and a minimum of weight and volume increase over the values of a normal TR tube. An entirely new principle was conceived which permits installation of the shutter within a normal TR tube body. This new shutter has an insertion loss of 40 to 60db in single tubes and up to 90db when incorporated into a dual tube with matching hybrids to form a TR shutter duplexer. By new magnet design techniques, the total weight increase was held to about 2 ounces for a three element X-band tube, and power consumption to about 3.9 watts. The design is such that, in case of power failure, the shutter automatically closes to present the high shutter insertion loss in front of the crystal, which makes it an inherently failsafe device."
"The spike leakage signal from high-Q and bandpass TR tubes was recorded as a function of time by using high-speed oscillographic techniques. The techniques employed resolved transients shorter than 0.5 millimicro-seconds (5 \\times 10^{-10}sec) during the TR spike interval."
"Use of a simple external cavity to tune a magnetron over wide frequency ranges (10 per cent or greater) imposes performance limitations with respect to electronic efficiency, moding, cathode-temperature variation, and coupling change. This paper discusses the use of more than one external tuning cavity to improve magnetron performance. A demountable laboratory design which tunes over a range of 17 per cent is described, as well as a sealed-off tube having electronic efficiency, cathode temperature, and power output constant over a range of 10 per cent. The multiple-cavity method of tuning permits the use of much higher frequency ranges and power outputs."
"The requirements for a recovery agent in high frequency switch tubes are discussed. The use of water vapor as a recovery agent suggests a hydrated salt for use as a water vapor reservoir to prolong tube life. Experiments with different salts have shown that certain metal halides, such as zinc chloride, have advantages as water vapor reservoirs. These advantages permit simpler processing in production of high frequency switch tubes."
"In order to control the electrical parameters of drift transistors, it was found necessary to control the impurity concentration gradient in the base. An extension of the space charge widening theory provides a method of calculating this gradient, the surface concentration, and the diffusion coefficient. By this method, the diffusion coefficient of arsenic into germanium at 725°C was found to be3 \\times 10^{-12}cm2/sec, and the initial surface concentration was of the order of 1021atoms/cm3. Universal graphs for design calculations and rapid reference are presented."
"The usual assumptions of PN junction theory have been applied to frequency conversion. The matrix describing superheterodyne operation can be expressed in terms of the small-signal diffusion admittances and a matrix depending on the local-oscillator voltage. The analysis also gives the large-signal admittances of a PN junction. A sufficiently small bonded contact and the emitter junction of a high-frequency transistor are examples of structures that minimize minority-carrier storage and give minimum conversion loss in demodulation (converting a high frequency to a low frequency). Such structures are also useful for performing logical operations in computers. The empirically observed need for small points in point-contact diodes for microwave detection is explained. When the geometry favors storage of minority carriers near the junction, amplification is possible in modulation (converting a low frequency to a high frequency). Structures of this sort can be used as pulse amplifiers."
"Summary form only given, as follows. Other investigators have reported that improved reliability for NPN alloy transistors can be expected with vacuum baking and vacuum encapsulation of the device. Our pilot shop experience with relatively large numbers of NPN alloy transistors has demonstrated that vacuum encapsulation does offer definite gains in reliability over earlier methods for encapsulation. An extension of this encapsulation technique involving employing a gettering agent results in further improvement in the stability of the device characteristics with time. Feasibility of use of these encapsulation procedures in high level production has been achieved through design of the high-vacuum station and the procedures associated with its operation. Details of the equipment and process and plots of transistor parameters versus time will be presented."
"The intrinsic-barrier design extends transistor frequency range without sacrificing power-handling capacity. A review of the design principles is presented, together with a description of a moderate-power developmental model, the M1830. A set of 155 M1830 units was recently made in the laboratory; 53 of these possessed measurable VHF characteristics, and diagrams are presented here showing parameter distributions for these units. Output power determinations were made for 15 units (not necessarily the best ones of the group). Nine units gave more than 20 milliwatts of sustained useful output at 200 megacycles per second. The best unit studied in detail thus far displayed an alpha of 0.88 at 100 cycles per second, ohmic base resistance of 106 ohms at 250 megacycles per second, collector capacitance of 0.2 micromicrofarads, grounded base cutoff frequency of 238 megacycles per second, and output power of 30 milliwatts at 200 megacycles per second."
"This paper will discuss experimental P-N-P and N-P-N power transistors having low collector leakage, high breakdown voltage and high current gain. P-N-P transistors have been made with d.c. current amplification factors as high as 140 at 1 ampere, collector leakage current on the order of 20 microamperes and collector breakdown as high as 200 volts. These characteristics are attributed in part to the use of special junction alloys consisting of indium and gallium or aluminum. N-P-N transistors having leakage and voltage breakdown characteristics similar to the P-N-P transistors have been made with d.c. current amplification factors as high as 200 at 1 ampere. An alloy of arsenic in lead is used for both the emitter and collector junctions. Other considerations in the design of power transistors such as base lead resistance, emitter to collector punch through, and thermal drop will be discussed. Typical characteristics of transistors designed for Class B amplifier use as well as high voltage switching applications will be presented."
"The relationship between phosphor dots on the screen and the holes in the shadow mask has been determined by light beams emanating from small light sources located at the red, green and blue color centers. This is acceptable for tubes with small deflection angles, but becomes less acceptable for tubes with large deflection angles. This is due to the fact that in an operating tube the electrons do not appear to originate from points in a fixed deflection plane, but rather from points in a deflection plane which moves closer to the shadow mask as the deflection angle is increased. This causes a color impurity for the larger deflection angles. The color impurity has been eliminated by determining the relationship between phosphor dots on the screen and the holes in the shadow mask with an exact light analogy for the electron trajectories."
"Internal electro-static yokes for bi-axial deflection are made by printing interleaved electrode patterns of special shape on the inside of a glass cone. These \"Deflectron\" units have been improved to meet high standards of performance. Two units have been developed: (1) A cylindrical or \"pencil\" Deflectron with 31° aperture. (2) A conical type with 67° aperture. The geometry of the electrode configuration required for field uniformity will be described."
"Viewing characteristics are presented for a color kinescope incorporating a screen composed of tiny three-sided pyramids having the respective sides coated with the three phosphors, and three electron guns situated advantageously so that each beam impinges only on its respective primary-colored phosphor."
"The storage kinescope has been adapted experimentally to provide high brightness on a spherical luminescent screen suitable for use in reflective optics projection systems. Spherical collector and storage mesh structures are used which aid in maintaining picture uniformity at high brightness, and permit a larger ratio of picture-to-bulb diameter. With experimental tubes highlight brightness of 5000 foot lamberts has been achieved on the 4½-inch diameter phosphor with a resultant brightness of several foot lamberts on a 48\" projected display. These results were obtained at less than 20 kv final voltage and less than 1 ma final current."
"The RCA Direct View Storage Kinescope is a cathode ray tube capable of providing a visual display of radar information at brightness levels that permit viewing under high ambient light conditions such as occur in aircraft cockpits. The radar information may be stored at this high light level for several minutes without appreciable loss of resolution. The storage time can be controlled over a wide range--from a fraction of a second to several minutes. Under one mode of operation, the information may be caused to decay gradually over the entire display area or it may be completely removed within a fraction of a second. Another mode of operation permits removal of information along a single line of the display. In this way, the radar data may be continually erased just prior to writing new data. Other features which make the Direct View Storage Kinescope desirable as a radar indicator are its high writing-speed, good half-tone rendition and good resolution (450 line limiting resolution on a diameter)."
"A high sensibility sealed display tube for the photographic recording of transients in the millimicrosecond region presents a specialized problem in CRT design. In this particular application, sensibility in volts per trace width and writing speed in trace widths per second are the significant performance characteristics. Analysis of the dependency of these on several important parameters in the general CRT design shows that the use of a much smaller spot and display than is conventional results in large gains in sensibility and writing speeds. Analysis also indicates that maximum sensibility is achieved with the deflection plates located in the lens region. Magnetic focusing is used to permit this positioning. To allow the choice of long plates with short effective transit time, the traveling wave deflection system of Pierce is employed. Post acceleration is introduced to obtain high writing speeds. This adds a thick lens to the electron optical system which is not easily taken into account in a simple analysis. Its general effect, however, is to reduce deflection sensitivity and also spot size, where the latter is not already limited by the screen resolution. The new tube uses a traveling wave deflection system with a magnetic focusing and attains a spot diameter of .001\". The field-tested research model had a sensibility of 0.05 volts/trace width and a writing speed of 10 trace widths/sec. The production models are expected to have sensibilities of 0.02 volts/trace width due largely to improvements in the post acceleration system."
"This paper will show the development of an intermediate power amplifier tube for the frequency range of 8 to 11 kMc. Small signal gain curves obtained with a constant power output swept-frequency source from 8 to 11 kMc are shown. The tube is provided with an isolated grid which allows modulation of the signal from full gain to cut-off to be obtained. Modulation characteristics are shown by power output versus power input curves taken for various grid voltages over the entire frequency range. The converging beam electron gun is operated at 1100 volts with approximately 8 ma of current. Design parameters of the tube are briefly discussed, including the magnetic field requirements."
"A kilowatt traveling-wave amplifier is ordinarily operated in the large signal region where performance is influenced by many design considerations in addition to the small signal design parameters. Large signal analyses have not yet been able to accommodate the non-ideal attenuator and cannot consider the many extraneous effects observed in large signal operation. It is therefore necessary to modify the design as dictated by experimental results. A number of tubes of each design are ordinarily required to obtain conclusive results and insure against a \"sport\" or a \"dud.\" Large signal performance is markedly affected by atteunator loss distribution and phase velocity under the attenuator. Observed performance sensitivity to helix velocity variation is not predicted by small signal theory. Low level backward-wave oscillations can markedly influence high level performance when harmonically related to the driving frequency. The design of the helix and attenuator support structure controls backward-wave oscillation and additionally influences other low level oscillations. The control of attenuator loss distribution, and the control of undesired output under no drive short circuited conditions appear to be basic problems in obtaining reproducible tube performance. Tubes made to the original design have been in operation in laboratory equipment since December, 1952. A redesign, recently made to ruggedize and to reduce size and magnet weight, has resulted in improved performance which is attributed to better control of attenuator characteristics and to the use of precision helices and helix supports."
"The principal aspect of the design of TWT's and BWO's for frequencies below 500 Mc is the problem of obtaining a tube of reasonably small physical dimensions. Hollow beams of greater perveance than is obtainable with solid beams offer one method of increasing the gain per wavelength in such tubes and hence reducing the size. Some aspects of the design of minimum size forward wave amplifiers using single helix circuits and backward wave oscillators using bifilar helix circuits, both in combination with hollow beams, will be discussed. Several tubes of these types for operation below 500 Mc have been built and performance data will be presented. Bandwidths and tuning ranges respectively, for TWT's and BWO's, in excess of 4 to 1 in frequency have been obtained experimentally. Efficiencies in excess of 20 per cent have been obtained."
"The development and performance of a high gain medium power traveling wave amplifier are described. Powers up to 7 watts at 15% efficiency have been achieved. The small signal gain approaches 50 db in the middle of the band, and exceeds 35 db over a 2 to 1 range of frequencies. The tube itself consists of a glass supported helix with a metal shell at one end, housing the cathode structure, and a copper collector at the other end. The input and output couplings are made by means of coupled helices which are mounted in a brass tube or matching structure which is external to the vacuum envelope. The matching structure is supported in the focussing solenoid. The effect of shield diameter, glass thickness and beam perveance on bandwidth are discussed. Other features of particular interest are the attenuator and coupling designs."
"Modern techniques make it possible to build traveling-wave amplifiers with stable gains as high as 60 or 70 db. Such tubes can have relatively flat frequency response, and high gain over frequency ranges well in excess of two to one. In design it is necessary to pay strict attention to adequate isolation of the input and output so that spurious feedback paths do not cause oscillation or excessive variation of gain with frequency. In many practical applications, such tubes are required to operate with source and load impedances which produce large reflections of energy. Special design techniques result in tubes which are stable under such conditions. Another feature which can be achieved in modern tubes is a high ratio of backward loss to forward gain, so that the amplifier can very effectively isolate an oscillator."
"This paper discusses a five watt, 30 db. gain traveling-wave tube designed for use in the 5925 to 6425 mc common carrier band. A description of the tube and its accompanying magnetic circuit is given. This is followed by a presentation of performance data for the tube over a wide range of beam currents and voltages. Measurements of the compression and amplitude-to-phase modulation conversion in the non-linear operating region are included, as is a discussion of the noise performance at both low and high levels."
"This paper describes a pulsed traveling-wave tube operating in the frequency range of 2400 to 3500 megacycles. The tube delivers a r-f power output of 2 kilowatts peak at 30 db minimum gain. Operating in the small signal region, with a slight readjustment of voltages, gains in excess of 45 db are realized at power outputs in the order of 50 watts. If the tube is driven into saturation as much as 4 kilowatts of output power is possible at a reduction in gain. Beam conversion efficiencies of 40 percent have been observed on a number of these tubes."
"Successful designs of experimental large-area light amplifying picture panels have been evolved using electroluminescent phosphor and a newly developed photoconductive CdS powder. The device to be described is a flat solid-state panel, approximately 12\" square, capable of intensifying images of low level visible light. The light may originate from a tungsten source or may consist simply of room light or daylight. Although such amplifiers may be made with differing spectral responses, this particular amplifier has a gain of approximately 15 times using input pictures which are of identical spectral distribution to that of the output picture. The present light amplifier is thus not limited to converter operation as is the case with other devices sometimes classed as light amplifiers which require ultra-violet input images for producing a visible output picture. The response time of the panel, determined basically by the photoconductive material, varies from about .1 second to several seconds, depending on the particular photoconductive powder and the input light level employed. In general, the light amplifier has properties which are common to most amplifiers, that is, it is capable of being cascaded into units of more than one stage, and may be designed to have a specified amount of feedback."
"A PNP fused junction transistor has been developed using a process in which alloying of the silicon is obtained by evaporation of the aluminum alloying material onto the silicon blank. Using this method, collector junctions have been made as large as 1/8\" square and emitter junctions as small as .010\" in diameter. As the aluminum evaporated may be quite well controlled as to quantity and location on the silicon blank, transistors may be produced with reasonably uniform physical dimensions."
"The silicon alloy transistor is a high-frequency, PNP-type transistor capable of operation at high temperatures. Its temperature characteristic, derived principally from the use of silicon as the semiconductor, permits operation from--70°C to 150°C. It achieves its high-frequency characteristic through accurate control of the base geometry. The N-type base of silicon is accurately machined by jet electrochemical techniques. Alloy contacts of aluminum are fused into the bottoms of the etch pits without producing appreciable change in base geometry. The depth of alloy is limited by the thickness of the aluminum, by the temperature and by the length of time for alloying. Lead wires are soldered to the aluminum contacts and the transistor hermetically sealed in glass-metal containers. The electrical characteristics of typical silicon alloy transistors include an Ic0of 0.001 microamperes, a common emitter forward current gain of 12, and an alpha-cutoff frequency of 12 megacycles."
"Developments in the diffusion technology of silicon p-n junctions have made feasible new rectifiers of outstanding performance. Current densities greater than 1,000 amperes/cm2are obtained at one volt forward bias; the same elements have reverse breakdown in excess of 200 volts. The oven diffusion method permits the critical process steps of barrier formation and contact application to be done on entire silicon slices, which may then be cut into elements of any desired size for assembly into completed devices. The use of high resistivity silicon as starting material, combined with a long diffusion cycle, results in relatively low junction capacitance. Signal type diodes have been prepared with a forward current greater than one ampere at one volt, reverse current less than one microampere at two hundred volts, and capacitance less than ten micromicrofarads at ten volts reverse bias."
"The general mechanical details as well as the electrical properties of the 2N66 power alloy transistor are presented. Flat and planar junctions, which are being produced on and oriented germanium, are primarily attributed to alloy fixture design, alloying cycle, and crystal orientation. The design of the alloying fixture permits \"one-shot\" alloying and insures close control of collector capacitance, current amplification ratio, and frequency cut-off. Both collector and emitter electrodes are alloyed under pressure which aids substantially in producing uniform wetting during the alloying process. Assembled units are being etched with a superoxol-hydrofluoric acid-hydrochloric acid etch which produces good junction characteristics. Reliability studies indicate that reasonable aging trends result if the units are encapsulated in a dry air ambient."
"A glow discharge voltage reference tube of ceramic-metal construction has been developed. Minimum size (T2), extreme ruggedness, and unusual electrical stability characterize the tube. The operating voltage is 85 volts. The ceramic-metal construction affords simplicity of design and capacity for higher temperature processing. These contribute to a rigid structure with improved operating voltage stability. Performance of the reference tube under conditions of shock, vibration, high temperature, and high altitude is described. Operating voltage stability over extended periods, temperature coefficient, ionization voltage, and the slope and smoothness of the voltage-current characteristic are discussed."
"A method is described of brazing molybdenum and tungsten parts of a magnetron cathode which operates at high temperatures. The brazing medium is ruthenium powder or mixtures of ruthenium and molybdenum powders. Evidence of a eutectic, melting at about 1900°C was obtained. In production, an atmosphere of forming gas is used with a blazing temperature of 2100°C (optical)."
"In order to produce electron tubes with high activity and a long stable life it is necessary to have contaminant-free structures. In this paper quantitative data are presented to show that a warm ultrasonically agitated aqueous detergent solution is more effective than conventional degreasing techniques for removing physical contaminants. The details of the apparatus and process are presented."
"The excellent gettering and gas retention properties of titanium metal make it highly suitable for use in vacuum devices. Tiny receiving tubes made with titanium parts are described which are capable of operating at high cathode emission densities. These high densities reduce the electron transit times and give better high-frequency performance. They permit the use of small electrodes and reduced heater and plate input powers. Vacuum devices made with titanium and ceramic parts can be operated for long periods of time at temperatures up to 700°C."
"Universal curves are presented which give the theoretical performance of triodes as Class B power amplifiers at ultra-high frequencies under a wide range of operating conditions. The curves may be used to determine the RF power output, plate efficiency, electronic driving power, power gain, and emission requirements of the cathode. The curves are the result of a large signal analysis of the parallel plane triode, with space charge effects taken into account. Touching only briefly upon the analysis itself, the present paper is concerned primarily with the presentation and interpretation of the results of the analysis so as to be of practical use to the tube designer. Two factors--the emission capabilities of the cathode consistent with long tube life, and the bandwidth requirement of the amplifier--are shown to play a major role in determining how nearly the UHF performance of a Class B triode can be made to approach its corresponding low frequency performance. Taking these factors into account, curves are presented which enable one to determine the optimum choice of interelectrode spacings for any given UHF triode application."
"This paper discusses the theory and use of three tube-design monographs which make it possible to determine quickly the required modifications of physical parameters which will provide desired alterations in tube characteristics. A brief description is given of the electron-tube theory upon which the nomograph design is based. The use of the nomographs is explained by means of the solution of some typical design problems. The nomographs, which are applicable to many diode, triode, and pentode problems, include physical parameters such as interelectrode spacings, wire sizes and grid TPI's, together with tube characteristics. In the use of the nomographs, the parameters and characteristics of an existing tube type are the basis for the determination of the parameters required for a desired complement of characteristics. These design nomographs are useful in both the development of new tube types and the modification of existing types to maintain \"bogie\" characteristics in factory production."
"One of the most difficult aspects in the development of a low-noise traveling-wave amplifier is that of producing low-noise performance over a wide range of frequencies. Although the traveling-wave tube is inherently broadband with respect to its gain and to many of its other characteristics, its noise figure typically is a sensitive function of frequency. Particular effort was made to investigate the bandwidth limitations of the low-noise performance. As the experimental results presented in the following paragraph show, wide-band low-noise behavior was achieved. It was found that such behavior can be obtained by observing certain design principles, such as designing for high space-charge factor and for high plasma-reduction factor."
"The Ferromagnetic Resonance Absorption phenomenon has been investigated both theoretically and experimentally. Progress in this investigation has led to the design of electronic attenuators, electronic phase shifters, and isolators for broadband use at X-band. The isolators are designed to handle peak powers of 50, 100, and 250 kilowatts and average powers of 50, 100, and 250 watts."
"In recent years a considerable amount of work has been done on the development of low-noise traveling-wave amplifiers. Most of the tubes developed to date have had a relatively narrow frequency band over which both low-noise and high gain have been achieved simultaneously. Recently work in this laboratory has been done toward building traveling-wave tubes with high gain as well as low-noise figure over a 2:1 frequency band."
"This paper will discuss the development of three cw tubes for the 10.7 to 11.7 kmc radio relay band. These tubes are: (1) a power tube (2.5 watts); (2) a medium power tube (200 mw); and (3) a low noise tube. Salient mechanical features will be discussed and pertinent electrical data of both a design and performance nature will be given."
"A process and accompanying mechanism is described whereby helices for a traveling-wave tube are made with a total pitch variation of.082\" \\pm .0004\"(maximum minus minimum reading, turn to turn readings are within .0004\"). The procedure whereby the helix is then glazed to synthetic sapphire rods for ruggedization is also described. The helix winding technique is general and can be easily applied to tape helices as well as wire. The system is self-consistent in that any arbitrary pitch can be specified with only a minor corresponding adjustment in the winding mechanism. The tolerances quoted represent those obtained to date; however, it is expected that further refinements can bring the accuracy to\\pm .0002\"."
"Two novel methods are outlined for the fabrication of glass fluted tubing to be used as a precision helix support in traveling wave tubes. Also described is a method for ruggedizing (locking each turn of the helix tightly in place) the helix mounted in such a structure. Such techniques used for fluted tubing construction lead to an ideal type of helix support since the inside geometry is such that a minimum of dielectric material is in direct contact with or in proximity to the helix. The first method described for the fabrication of the fluted tubing is useful where small quantities are required for laboratory use. No special materials are required, and tubing of almost any desired inside dimensions may be obtained with a minimum of delay. The second method requires initial tooling but is better suited for production quantities. Precision mandrels of the desired inside geometry may be made cheaply and used as disposable tools in this process."
"Good broadband microwave limiters can be built by appropriately modifying conventional traveling-wave tubes. For example, several S-band limiters were developed and are now in use in which the output power can be held constant to within\\pm \\frac{1}{2}db over a range of input of approximately 50 db and over a 700 mcs frequency range. This was done by using commercially available traveling-wave tubes. All the necessary modifications were made from outside the tube envelope. No constructional changes involving tube parts within the envelope were required."
"Recently an improved structure for the hermetically sealed version of the point contact transistor has been developed. Units employing this structure have met satisfactorily military shock, vibration, and centrifuge tests and have characteristics which enable them to undergo severe temperature cycling without significant changes in important device parameters. The \"electrical\" reliability of these devices as indicated by power and shelf aging tests which have extended to 6000 hours duration is excellent. The features of structure which result in this improved performance of the device are explored. In addition, simple modifications of the basic mechanical design which permit dissipation of approximately one half watt of power without external heat sinks are discussed."
"A germanium alloy-junction diode has been developed which is useful as a voltage controlled reactance up to and including ultra high frequencies. Special attention has been paid to electrical losses and lead inductance. Typical performance at 500 mc/s and 6 volts bias is a capacitance of 30 µµfd with a change in capacitance at this voltage of 2 µµfd/volt, a lead inductance of 6 milli-microhenries, and a Q of 40. Theoretical expressions are developed for the various parameters involved, and these results agree well with measured results. Diodes to meet special operating requirements can therefore be designed. The variable reactance diode has many applications such as for mixing, frequency modulation, automatic frequency control, frequency selective circuits, and dielectric amplifiers."
"In the design of transistors for class B amplifier and switching applications, a primarily important parameter is the D. C. current amplification factor. By extending the work of Shockley, Webster and Rittner, a theoretical expression has been derived for the variation of this D.C. current amplification factor versus emitter current at high injection levels. Calculations have been made based upon this theoretical expression. Results are presented for emitter currents up to the amperes range with different values of resistivity, life time, width and surface recombination velocity of the base region, and different values of conductivity and diffusion length of the emitter region as well as the size of the emitter-base junction. These results provide a quantitative guide for the design of power transistors. Recent reports, indicate that by using new alloys for p-n-p fused junction transistors, the current amplification factor can be improved tremendously. One of the speculations is that this improvement is caused by the increase in emitter conductivity. Theoretical and experimental results are given to review this speculation quantitatively."
"A Point-Contact Germanium Photocell with the unique properties of subminiature size (1/1000 cubic inch) and 360° sensitivity to near-infrared radiation has been developed to the production stage. The unit has a true glass fusion seal and good frequency response. We will describe testing methods which yield parameters from which the characteristic curves of the device can be reconstructed. It will be shown that for the desired axial geometry a minimum surface-to-bulk ratio and minimum dimensions yield maximum effective carrier lifetime and at the same time maximum sensitivity. Manufacturing and application problems will be discussed and typical optical assemblies shown."
"The gold bonded germanium diode offers a practical example of a hemispherical p-n junction. In this discussion, a theory is given for the parameters of interest in design of such a junction, i.e., the breakdown voltage, forward current, and transient effects. It is shown that voltage breakdown differs from that for a planar junction due to the concentration of the field by the geometry, this effect leading to lower breakdown voltages. The forward current and reverse transient dependence on the radius of the junction bulk properties, and the thickness of the semiconductor are shown. The nature of the back contact to the semiconductor is also discussed. The theoretical predictions are compared with experimental results for germanium gold bonded diodes, with good agreement. The theories presented also have some application to point contact welded diodes, especially those with heavily doped whiskers, but the scatter in results with these makes it much more difficult to verify the theory."
"Primary grid emission of various grid materials exposed to the evaporation products of \"L,\" impregnated, oxide-coated, and thoriated tungsten cathodes is discussed. The work function of a tungsten grid exposed to the evaporation products of the four types of cathodes varies from 1.2 to 2.0 ev, the final value depending upon the past history of the cathode, namely, the nature of the surface of the grid and the temperature and length of exposure to the cathode. A detailed discussion of the performance of titanium, which exhibits excellent grid emission inhibiting properties, is included."
"The basic phenomena of this new electronic device are described and its characteristics in regard to temperature, shock, vibration, and life are discussed."
"Radioactive tracer technique applied to studies of the chemical activation of oxide cathodes show that the process is controlled by diffusion of reducing agents in the base nickel. A correlation will be demonstrated between the rate of reduction of the oxide coating and the pulse emission from the cathodes. Results will be reported for the development of activity for a number of single constituent base nickels."
"This is a review of life test records of over 50,000 tubes which were tested for 500 hours, and over 4,000 tubes which were tested for 10,000 hours. The basic characteristics of filamentary subminiature tubes are also discussed with respect to their suitability for applications other than hearing aid and communications equipment."
"From experiments with different purity alundums as heater coating in both commercial tubes and in specially designed laboratory tubes it was found that one of the major causes of heater-cathode leakage is due to the presence of impurities in the alundum."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The oscillator type described in this paper permits the selection of an undesired one of an unbroken series of harmonically related frequencies without having the aforementioned disadvantages. It consists of two sections: A crystal oscillator operating at the fundamental to the desired output frequencies and an oscillator which is periodically phase-controlled by the fundamental oscillation such that its output frequency spectrum contains only harmonics of the crystal oscillator frequency. Frequencies that are not harmonieally reb tf.d to the crystal frequency are not generated. The oscillstor operates simultaneously in the range of the desired output frequency and at the crystal controlled fundamental to it. This simplifies the circuitry eucb that only one vacuum tube, one quartz crystal end two tuned circuits are required to produce an output spectrum of high order harmonics. The spectrum energy is concentrated about the harmonic nearest to the fre~uency of the periodically phase-controlled oscillator."
"This paper is a general description of the radio communications system being used by the City of Houston, Texas. As early as 1926, the first experiments in the use of radio for police work in Houston made use of a commercial broadcast station, which interrupted regular programs when necessary. Today, communications and electronic work for most city departments is done by this agency, although the division is a section of the Police Department. The operation of three F. M. transmitters and receivers into a single antenna, and the problems encountered with intermodulation are outlined."
"The purpose of this paper is to direct attention to the many uses of radio communication systems, some of them unusual and seldom heard of, and to show how organizations, through the use of radio, are better able to coordinate their activities and thus provide a quicker and more efficient service to the public."
"To show the Communication Engineer's role in American Industry, an example is made of the engineering, installation and maintenance of a three-frequency mobile system covering the oil basin of Indiana, Illinois and Kentucky. In this instance, the so-called \"Tri-State\" Mobile Telephone System, it was first necessary to determine the Industry's communication needs; analyze these data, manufacture specific equipment, establish transmitter sites and control points and set up traffic handling procedures. The need for the system was two-fold. An area adjacent to an existing general highway mobile cell needed to be covered and the existing cell was overloaded. Another cell on the same frequency would only aggravate conditions in the overloaded portion. The new \"Tri-State\" system was devised so that each of nine base stations operated on one of three frequencies. Since, at the time the System was being engineered there were no three-frequency mobile units available, a special set had to be designed and manufactured to meet the requirements of the system. Co-channel overlap was alleviated in this system by making no adjacent cells operate on the same frequency. The customer was required to select the right channel as he moved across the area. Studies made of actual results indicate that more traffic is being handled per station in this system than in the usual area coverage (highway) system. Only through cooperation of user, manufacturer and supplier together with their engineers could an adequate system have been provided."
"Since the quality of communications is a function of signal to noise ratio, it follows that a squelch system will perform its intended function more proficiently if it operates directly as a function of this ratio. The threshold of operation of the commonly used carrier-operated system varies widely with changes in ambient noise conditions and receiver gain. This squelch system overcomes these objections to the carrier-operated squelch and may also prove useful for suppressed carrier systems. Formulas applicable to circuit operation and practical circuitry which will provide consistent operation for signal plus noise to noise ratios as low as 2 db are given. Results of field tests are also included."
"The methods given here include measurements, as made with either indicating or integrating instruments, of power, voltage and current in direct current and alternating-current single-phase and polyphase rotating machinery, transformers, induction apparatus, arc and resistance heating equipment and mercury rectifiers. It also includes measurements made with supplementary instruments and devices. This code does not include such measurements as resistance and temperature which are often included in determining the performance characteristics of electric machinery. Instruments for these latter measurements will be found in the specific codes dealing with the particular measurement; such as AIEE Master Test Code for Temperature Measurement, No. 551."
"It is the purpose of this code to define uniform acceptable methods of making tests to determine that the rating, performance and other characteristics of generator voltage regulators for aircraft comply with specifications and application requirements.<<ETX>>"
"The purpose of this ANSI/IEEE proposed recommended practice is to give a common basis of comparison among electronic voltmeters offered for general purpose applications. It is recommended that all manufacturers offering instruments for general applications supply the information outlined. For the purpose of these specifications, general-purpose voltmeters do not include instruments which are primarily intended for measurement of pulses or similar discontinuous waveforms, or instruments of the electrometer type which are designed to provide an extremely high input resistance (10/sup 10/ ohms or more). It is recognized that additional information should be supplied with instruments in these and other special groups which manufacturers should not be asked to supply when they are offering instruments for more general applications.<>"
"This standard describes a modification of existing techniques which allows for the measurement of a receiver employing a ferrite core loop antenna with the same precision as that obtained in the measurement of air core loop antennas. The test loop employed can be identical to the one described in 'Standards on Radio Receivers-Methods of Testing Amplitude-Modulation Broadcast Receivers-1948'.<<ETX>>"
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Numbers refer to the chronological list. Light-face type indicates papers, bold-face type indicates discussions and correspondence and italics refer to books and book reviews."
"The index contains an entry for all items that appeared during the year."
"In this index numbers refer to chronological list."
"This index covers all nontechnical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"New techniques, materials, and methods for the fabrication of airborne electronic equipment as applied to a particular equipment, which have been developed at the National Bureau of Standards, are described. Emphasis has been placed in attaining reliable equipment performance, and steps taken to achieve reliability are discussed. A miniature radar set has been developed using these new techniques and materials. The equipment is capable of operating in an ambient temperature as low as -65 degrees C., and much higher than +55 degrees C. Internal temperatures are minimized by an internal cooling system which is provided to cool the equipment under the high ambient temperature conditions. The equipment is pressurized, and is not limited by altitude. It consists of a single major unit plus accessories. The weight of the entire system is fifty-five pounds."
"The visual phenomenon of color adaptation must be mimicked by any successful process of color photography or color television. This means that a light gray object should be reproduced so as to appear light gray, regardless of variations of the illumination in the original scene, within a wide range of qualities. In color photography, films of two different classes are commonly provided, one for daylight and the other for incandescent tungsten light. In the present standard system of color television, the color subcarrier should have zero amplitude for a light gray object, regardless of the chromaticity of the illumination, whether daylight or incandescent tungsten light or arc light. Adjustment of receivers to correspond to the adaptation of the viewer is equally important. Although most receivers will be used in living rooms lighted by incandescent tungsten lamps, receivers are sometimes used in subdued daylight. This fact creates a dilemma, which is familiar to the designers of illuminators for color transparencies. A satisfactory compromise has been found: a color temperature of 4,000 degrees Kelvin."
"A small receiving tube having a noise figure of 7 db at 1,200 mc has been developed. Experimental tubes of this type may be precisely assembled using low-loss materials. An exhaust temperature of 800 degrees C. is practicable, and the tube can be made small enough to make possible operation up to 10,000 mc."
"Lag type compensation of a speed regulating system may be used to reduce the steady state error. The analysis of an active, high Q, RLC circuit shows that it permits lag compensation of carrier-type feedback control systems through direct operation on the system actuating signal. The use of this circuit in an instrument type velocity servo reduces the steady-state error by a factor of at least 30."
"The theory of radio scattering in the troposphere is modified in the light of recent observations of the fluctuations in refractive index. The theory is applied to the communication problem and yields some characteristics which are peculiar to the scattering mechanism. One characteristic imposes a limit on the maximum size of an antenna which yields its full theoretical gain. This characteristic is deduced from the prediction of diversity distance. Height gain is also deduced from diversity distance. Other characteristics are derived pertinent to the communication problem, including fading rates and frequency bandwidth of the scattering mechanism."
"In a computer developed at the Columbia University Electronics Research Laboratories, it was necessary to design a network having the following properties: Its transfer function should be determined by an audio-frequency square-wave control voltage, the transfer function should be unity for one polarity of the square wave and zero for the other polarity, and the inaccuracies should be less than 0.1 per cent. This paper describes two-diode, four-diode, and six-diode types of bridge switches which were investigated to meet the above need. For each type a discussion is given of the important parameters of the system such as control voltage amplitudes, magnitude of gain, constancy of gain versus signal amplitude, leakage through the back resistances of the diodes, effects of unbalances in the system, and others. A brief review is given of triode and pentode gates. A discussion is also given of the considerations arising from the use of series, parallel, and series-parallel combinations of switches. Some actual circuits are described which meet the original specifications. An experimental method for checking the linearity is given."
"In a grown-junction transistor in which the base connection consists of an alloy contact, overlap on emitter and/or collector regions may produce appreciable capacity between emitter-base and collector-base terminals. The effect of such overlap capacity upon measured small-signal parameters at high frequencies is described briefly for both grounded-base and grounded-emitter operation. Typical experimental results are shown for two different parameters. Also, it is noted that interterminal parasitic capacities affect measured parameters in the same manner as do these overlap capacities."
"A new slow-wave circuit structure for traveling-wave tubes consists of a ridged rectangular waveguide with a series of transverse slots in the broad wall opposite the ridge. This structure can be fabricated easily in sizes small enough for use at millimeter wavelengths if the slotted wall is prepared either by winding a grid or by photo-etching the slots in a thin metal sheet. Demountable traveling-wave tubes were constructed in which an electron beam was coupled to space-harmonics of waves traveling on such a circuit. Using a circuit whose slotted wall was fabricated by the photo-etching technique, forward-wave interaction and backward-wave oscillations were obtained in a wavelength band centered at 5.4 mm. With structures whose slotted walls were prepared by grid winding, backward-wave oscillators were made which performed in wavelength bands centered at 5.1 mm and at 3.6 mm."
"Curves are given here showing the equivalent shunt capacitance for step-type discontinuities in radial transmission lines for cases with the larger spacing outside, the larger spacing inside, and the re-entrant or septum type discontinuities. Corrections for dimensions comparable with wavelength and the proximity of a short circuit termination are discussed in addition to application of the results to cases with thin diaphragm or with changes of dielectric at the radius of the discontinuity. The basis for the analysis of the curves also is discussed briefly."
"Essential to the interference rejection ability of a frequency-modulation receiver is the use of the proper bandwidths in its nonlinear sections. The weaker of two competing signals (whose amplitude may approach the amplitude of the stronger signal within arbitrary limits) can be suppressed by a frequency-modulation receiver if, other requirements being met, the limiter and discriminator bandwidths exceed certain minimum necessary values. After presenting a summary of design requirements established experimentally by previous investigators, this paper presents a theoretical determination of the minimum necessary values in terms of an ideal bandpass filter that follows an ideal limiterand is followed byan amplitude-insensitive detector. The results reported here show that the bandwidth specifications prescribed, by other investigators can be cut by a factor of more than ten in the limiter bandwidth, and a factor of two in the discriminator bandwidth. The paper concludes with observations on the possibility of reducing the required discriminator bandwidth to that of the intermediate frequency by cascading enough stages of bandpass limiters."
"Periodic magnetic or electrostatic fields are capable of focusing a long electron beam so that the performance normally yielded by a uniform magnetic field is attained. This is the case if a proper choice of the value of the period with respect to the rms value of the field is employed. For high-power traveling-wave tubes, however, the value of the period demanded by either periodic magnetic or electrostatic focusing field is so small that it is almost impossible to realize these fields. By the use of a proper combination of a varying magnetic and electric field, optimum performance is physically attainable for electron beams of high perveance. The general theory of focusing action in such combined or complementary fields is given and is applied to problems which arise in systems involving parallel electron beam flow. It is also shown that in the case of combined fields, the fields which may be employed are much less restricted and critical than is the case when they are used singly."
"The charging and discharging of two types of nonlinear capacitances through a linear resistance are discussed in detail. The response of a capacitor whose capacitance is an increasing exponential function of the potential across it is compared to that of the \"space-charge\" capacitor whose voltage dependence is of the form C8 = (C0 sinh a Vc/(aVc)), where Vc is the potential across the capacitor. The variation of the differential capacitance of the space-charge capacitor with time, during charging and discharging, is considered for various applied potentials and is compared with the somewhat similar behavior to be expected from a linear capacitor exhibiting a distribution of relaxation times."
"The purpose of this paper is to evaluate the displacement of the zeros pk0 of the impedance Z(p) due to the variations δz in the impedance of any network element. It is shown that the displacement is approximately proportional to the mth root of (-δz) evaluated at p = pk0, where m is the multiplicity of pk00, and the proportionality factor equals the coefficient Ak of (p-pk0)-m in the partial fraction expansion of 1/Z(p)."
"The scattering of electromagnetic waves by wires and plates is discussed, particularly with reference to new polarization components which appear. An approximate solution is obtained for the problem of scattering of radiation by a rectangular plate, for arbitrary angle of incidence, and arbitrary direction of polarization. The problem of scattering by a wire is formulated in terms of the current distributions on the wire when center driven, and when driven as a receiving antenna. A relation between the magnitude of the input impedance of a center-driven wire and the scattering properties of the wire is given. The use of simple sinusoidal current distributions is shown to give good results for the scattering of wires of length less than a wavelength. The scattering properties of a wire are shown to provide a method for precisely measuring the magnitude of the input impedance of a center-driven wire. This avoids the problem of the input region susceptance which occurs when the antenna impedance is measured by means of a transmission line coupled to the antenna."
"The characteristics of uniform waveguides of arbitrary cross section can be studied experimentally by using a two-dimensional transmission line, operating in resonance in its principal mode, as an analog. The model is simple, inexpensive, and quite accurate even for cross sections which have sharp corners. The theory is presented, measurement techniques are discussed, and experimental results are compared with the theoretical values for rectangular and ridged waveguides."
"The experimental results of a program to extend helix backward-wave oscillator techniques to the 4.5- to 6-millimeter range are described. The design of a tube capable of cw output over this range is presented together with operating characteristics. The tube employs a tungsten helix wound with 0.002-inch by 0.005-inch tape with a 0.025-inch inner diameter. The helix voltage is tuned from 2,400 to 850 volts to cover the range, and the cathode current is 4.0 ma. The tube with its all-glass envelope is believed to be a relatively inexpensive millimeter-wave signal source. Power output is estimated to be greater than 1 milliwatt."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"This paper summarizes the principal characteristics of tropospheric transmission beyond the horizon and compares them with some of the properties of ionospheric scatter transmission. Quantitative results are given on the dependence of the average signal level on distance and frequency, fading phenomena, bandwidth capabilities and realizable antenna gain. A short historical summary of beyond-horizon tropospheric transmission is also included."
"The results of a program extending over the last four and one-half years to investigate the nature and characteristics of high-loss regular VHF propagation by means of the lower ionosphere are presented. For the most part continuous-wave transmissions are employed, with the result that the effects of the different elements in the propagation are superposed. Three different ionizing agents operating in the lower ionosphere can be distinguished by means of their differing effects on the behavior of the signal, after the exclusion of behavior associated with sporadic-E propagation. They are solar radiation, corpuscular radiation presumably of solar origin, and meteors. The part played by each of these is discussed in the account and interpretation of the principal results obtained. Both short- and long-term characteristics of the observed composite signals are described, as well as the results of experiments with spaced and other antenna arrangements. The intensity and nature of the signals are discussed as a function of time of day, season, geographical position of the transmission path, and level of solar activity. The dependence of the strength of the signals on path length, on frequency, and on scattering angle has been studied. In the latter connection, pulse experiments were performed with equipment permitting fairly direct height determinations, which are found to be in satisfactory agreement with earlier less direct height determinations. Attempts to compare the observations with various existing theories designed to account for the propagation as a scattering process have been made. The results are not entirely satisfactory."
"This paper presents a theoretical analysis of the mechanism that enables transmission of vhf-signals over distances of the order of 103 km. It is found that turbulent mixing, operating at the lower edge of the E-layer (h=80-90 km) produces fluctuations in electron density of sufficient intensity to account for the observed signals. The basic assumptions are the existence of a sufficiently strong gradient of electron density (dN/dh > 103 cm-3/km) and a reasonable level of turbulent activity."
"Various radio effects of the turbulence in the low ionosphere are discussed with a view toward determining the order of magnitude of the turbulence parameters in this region. These effects include vhf scattering, sporadic E-layer phenomena, and diffraction patterns in reflection. The required electron density fluctuations (ΔN/N)2 fluctuate around 10-4 and the scale of the turbulence I is roughly 100 to 200 meters. The latter quantity measured directly in the troposphere is of about the same order of magnitude. The underlying purpose of the paper is to study the aerodynamical mechanisms of turbulence. Pressure fluctuations result from the \"collisions and extensions between turbulent eddies\" in a uniform gas, or from vertical transport in the atmosphere with its varying pressure. It is shown that such pressure fluctuations are too small, by a factor of about 10-4, to produce the observed density fluctuations. However, the vertical transport mechanism produces two other effects which are independent of the energy of the turbulence and are of the right order of intensity. First, in a nonadiabatic atmosphere the vertical transport of air masses produces fluctuations of temperature. These, in turn, give rise to air density fluctuations, and proportional electron density fluctuations. Second, fluctuations of electron density result directly from transport in the presence of a gradient of electron density. These two effects, for the same uniform turbulence, occur at different levels in an ionospheric layer. They are sufficient to explain the stratification properties of sporadic E."
"The gaussian character of electromagnetic radiation scattered from turbulent atmosphere fluctuations is shown to follow from the Central Limit Theorem, even when the scattering is from only one macro-eddy and there is coupling between eddy motions of different sizes. It is suggested that including the effects of eddy coupling may increase the calculated average scattered power enough to give agreement with experiment."
"Some results are given of studies of ionospheric forward scatter propagation at frequencies exceeding normal muf in the high hf and low vhf range with the view of investigating potential point-to-point communications. Approximately 13,000 hours of data were analyzed from measurements conducted since late 1951, on several frequencies and paths, predominantly 1,000 to 1,100 miles in length, in mid-latitudes. Signal level characteristics are presented in summary form and discussed. Most of the work was conducted at 49.6 mc on the 1,066 mile Cedar Rapids, Ia. to Round Hill, Mass. path. Nominal 30 kw transmitters and large rhombic transmitting antennas were employed. The median received signal levels were relatively weak, of the order of 100 db below free space values. Fading during short periods in the absence of meteoric or sporadic E enhancements was found to be Rayleigh distributed. For longer periods, of the order of an hour, the fading was essentially Gaussian, although meteoric and sporadic E enhancements often changed the slope of the fading distribution curves at higher signal levels. The normalized median levels were generally lower and the diurnal variations less marked than those reported by CRPL for the shorter Cedar Rapids to Sterling path (773 miles). Seasonally, the median levels were higher in winter and summer and lower in spring and fall. There was an indication of lower levels with decreasing sunspot activity."
"Recent discoveries about long-range propagation of uhf radio waves, together with careful utilization of high-powered transmitters and large antennas, have made possible reliable multichannel point-to-point uhf radio communication systems which operate over distances of 200 miles or more beyond the horizon. Measurements by various investigators have shown that transmission losses on such paths have median values of the order of 80 db below free-space levels. A program of investigation at Lincoln Laboratory, MIT, has yielded detailed propagation data necessary for the design of long-distance multichannel uhf radio communication circuits. This has also led to the design of specialized equipment for this application. These circuits employ antennas having transmitting and receiving gains of 25-40 db; high-power FM transmitters of up to 10-kw output; sensitive FM receivers having low-noise input circuits, and excellent selectivity; and space-diversity reception. A procedure for system design is outlined."
"Several diversity techniques employed in uhf beyond-the-horizon systems are discussed. Field experience is evaluated in terms of equipment reliability, flexibility and performance. A nonswitching parallel combiner has become the standard military diversity circuit for uhf long-range receivers. The circuit is described and analyzed."
"Measurements made by Central Radio Propagation Laboratory and others have established the feasibility of producing uhf fields at long distances which are sufficiently strong and consistent to be usable for communication purposes. This paper assembles the results of several investigators of the field strength-distance relation and shows that these results are in reasonable agreement in a range of about 75 to 250 miles. Statistical variations from the median due to fading are discussed. Graphical means are developed to facilitate the determination of the signal-to-noise ratio at the receiver for various ranges of distance, antenna gain, frequency, transmitter power, bandwidth, and receiver noise figure. Diversity systems are explored briefly. Estimates are made of the effect of the medium upon the antenna gain and the maximum bandwidth."
"Tropospheric radio transmission beyond the horizon is characterized by rapid and selective fading, which suggests a possible limitation on the useful bandwidth. The tests discussed were made to explore the bandwidth capabilities of this medium. Bell Telephone Laboratories conducted these tests in cooperation with the M.I.T. Lincoln Laboratory on a 188-mile path at 5,050 mc with a power of 300w and 28-foot paraboloidal antennas. Two types of tests were made. First a 12-voice-channel multiplex system for intermodulation crosstalk. IF band was 1.3 mc. Then television tests were made with a deviation of ±4 mc and IF bandwidth of 30 mc. No significant impairment in system quality could be attributed to distortion in transmission medium in either test."
"Experimental results obtained with transmissions at wavelengths of 3.2, 9.3, and 24 cms over a 46.3-mile path are presented. With low terminal heights the scattered field was dominant on this path. Tests with a narrow beam antenna indicate that the scattered field arrives at the receiver spread over an appreciable angle. This angle is some five to seven times as large as the Booker-Gordon theory predicts on the assumption that the scale of turbulence is large compared to the wavelength. Loss in ability to receive power in proportion to antenna gain was encountered for antennas with aperture diameters greater than about 20 wavelengths. This loss occurs for aperture sizes considerably smaller than the Booker-Gordon theory predicts. The speed of fading of the scattered field signal increases aimost linearly with frequency. This agrees fairly well with the concept (due to Ratcliffe and applied to tropospheric scattering by Booker and Gordon) that fading is due to beating between various scattered field components whose frequencies differ by a fractional Doppler shift due to motion of the scatterers. The speed of fading always increases, during the day, with time of day and does not correlate with mean upper wind speed. This increase with time of day is probably connected with the repetitive diurnal meteorological cycle prevalent in Arizona."
"This paper gives the results of some radio propagation tests which were made on two beyond-horizon paths in New-foundland. During these tests simultaneous transmissions at 505 mc and 4,090 mc over a 150-nautical mile path were measured for a full year, and transmission at 505 mc over a 255 mile path was measured for a period of 5 months. Both of these paths were partly over land and partly over water. Long term median signal levels and fading statistics for the two paths are given, as well as the results of some measurements of the improvement obtained from space diversity reception and the gain realized from large (28 foot) antennas on the 150-mile path. The test results provide further evidence of the feasibility of using uhf beyond-horizon links in communication systems."
"Experiments designed to investigate the potential communications capacity of uhf and shf tropospheric propagation beyond the radio horizon were conducted by the MIT Lincoln Laboratory on circuits of from 161 to 188 miles in length along the coastal regions of the northeastern United States. Some of these tests were made in cooperation with the Bell Telephone Laboratories and the late Major E. H. Armstrong. A study of the following aspects of tropospheric propagation was considered necessary in order to gain a better understanding of the factors involved in design of communications systems: 1. The extent of useful communication bandwidths. 2. Variation of uhf and shf median signal levels over a full seasonal cycle. 3. The range and rates of fading. 4. The effective gain of highly directional antenna systems. 5. The effect of multipath propagation on modulated signals. 6. The polarization properties of scattered fields. 7. The angular dependence of scattered fields. Such experiments made from 1953 to 1955 have confirmed the utility of tropospheric circuits for wide-band communication systems and have provided information useful in the evaluation of tropospheric propagation mechanisms."
"Measurements of small variations in 100 mc field intensity within and just beyond the radio horizon are reported. The measured fields are assumed to be the resultant of two field components, one having a constant amplitude and the other being a rapidly-fading scattered component. The fading range of the resultant field intensity over a 10-minute period is used to determine K. Here, K is the ratio in decibels of the root-mean-square amplitude of the scattered component to the amplitude of the constant vector. Curves showing the measured median values of basic transmission loss, fading rate, and K plotted vs hour of the day are included for three of the Cheyenne Mountain transmission paths. Diurnal variation of these quantities is also discussed. The average basic transmission loss of the scattered component, Lba8, can be found if K and the resultant basic transmission loss, Lbm are known. Median values of Lba8, and Lbm are plotted vs the angular path distance, θ. Measurement of the correlation of the resultant field strengths received on two horizontally-spaced antennas within the radio horizon is reported. When the spacing was varied from ½ to 20 wavelengths and the correlation compared to other characteristics of the field, the correlation was found to be as much a function of Lba8 and fading rate as it was of antenna spacing."
"Fading rate is defined to be the number of times per minute that the envelope of the received field crosses its median level with a positive slope. This definition of fading rate is equally useful for ionospheric or tropospheric propagation studies. Furthermore, it may be used with equal facility on short transmission paths where the ground wave component of the received field predominates and on the longer transmission paths where the scattered component of the received field predominates. It is shown that this definition of fading rate provides a quantity which is numerically related to the parameters of the propagation medium under certain conditions which are normally satisfied in either ionospheric or tropospheric propagation studies. The pertinent parameters of the propagation medium in beyond-the-horizon transmission are the location and shape of the scattering volume and the turbulent and drift velocities of the scatterers. An extensive discussion is given of the shape of the tropospheric scattering volume for beyond-the-horizon transmission. An analysis is then given of some fading rate data obtained in the National Bureau of Standards tropospheric propagation program in the 92 to 1046 mc range of frequencies on transmission paths 70, 97, 226, and 394 miles in length. Finally an analysis is given for within-the-horizon propagation. In this case it is advantageous to define fading rate as the number of times per minute that the phase of the received field crosses its median level with a positive slope."
"Formulas, tables, and graphs are given for the probability distribution of the instantaneous resultant amplitude of the sum of a constant vector and a Rayleigh-distributed vector. It is emphasized that two distributions are required to describe a Rayleigh-distributed vector: the distribution of its amplitude and the distribution of its phase. A summary is presented of physical conditions which must be satisfied for a given phenomenon to exhibit statistical properties of a Rayleigh-distributed vector. References are made to ways in which these distributions may be used to describe random variables occurring in ionospheric, tropospheric, and irregular terrain propagation problems. Finally, a discussion is given of amplitude and phase distributions of two other random vectors encountered in tropospheric propagation studies."
"By introducing three path parameters into the geometry of scattered signal transmission, the spherical earth formulas of W. E. Gordon were extended to the nonspherical earth case. This paper describes the result of analysis. The nonspherical earth formulas were applied to the prediction of the signal power and characteristics of tropospheric scattered fields on the hilly 93-mile path between Ithaca and Wethersfield-Springs, N.Y., and on the 119-mile path between Ithaca and Buffalo, N.Y. The transmission experiments over these two paths were conducted at Cornell University, at frequencies of 2,780 mc and 9,150 mc. The results of the experiments are presented together with the predictions in this paper."
"Using a high-power radar-type transmitter near Boston, Massachusetts, point-to-point measurements have been made at a frequency of 220 mcps on 200- and 400-statute-mile overwater paths extending along the east coast. Comparisons are made with similar data available for overland paths. Correlations between the shorter path field-strength data and sea echo back-scatter near the transmitter site are indicated. Airborne field-strength measurements have also been made out across the North Atlantic Ocean to a distance in excess of 400 miles; the variation of field strength with distance is graphically displayed by this technique."
"This paper extends the theory of tropospheric scatter by deriving the appropriate formulas for the important radio system parameters under the assumption that the turbulence is anisotropic; i.e., that the scale of turbulence in the horizontal dimension is different from the scale of turbulence in the vertical dimension. The frequency dependence of the scattered radiation is the same for anisotropic large-scale turbulence as for isotropic. Furthermore, those radio systems parameters which depend only on the rate of decrease of scattered energy with elevation angle (such as the vertical correlation function and height gain) remain unchanged under the assumption of anisotropy while those parameters which depend on the energy coming out of the great circle plane (such as the horizontal correlation function) can be influenced quite substantially by anisotropy. Several other parameters such as the longitudinal correlation function, bandwidth of the medium and effective antenna gain may also be influenced by anisotropy but generally to a lesser extent. A comparison is made between our theory and some recent NBS data-indicating that anisotropy does exist."
"A phenomenological exponential space correlation of dielectric fluctuations is normally used to predict scatter field strengths beyond the horizon. This paper introduces a modified exponential model which includes effects of the smallest blob cutoff in the turbulent spectrum and rectifies the correlation's cusp at the origin. It is found that the present agreement of troposphere scatter experiments with the exponential function does not depend on this cusp. It is suggested that frequency-dependent tropospheric fields recently measured below 25 cm may indicate the influence of the correlation's fine structure. The same model is then applied to the ionosphere, where the extended range VHF scatter wavelengths just straddle the smallest blob size (~3 m) in the E layer. The turbulence fine structure is most important for this propagation and gives a qualitative explanation of the curious dualism in frequency scaling laws observed at opposite ends of the VHF band. Satisfactory variation of signal strength with scattering angle is also predicted by this model. It is shown that scatter measurements can provide valuable estimates of the atmosphere's fine structure at various heights."
"Experiments of the past decade give stronger fields well beyond the horizon than are calculated by the 4/3 airless earth approximation. Post-war work on the theory of the WKB approximation for wave propagation in slowly varying inhomogeneous media, and the peculiar results for eigenvalues of the bilinear refractive index proffle offer valuable clues in the search for an oversight in conventional propagation theory. If the absolute value as well as the gradient of the refractive index at the earth's surface be specified, with a refractive index profile which tapers to vacuum at some arbitrarily large height, then allowed modes of the wave equation permit the field to be calculated within, just beyond, and well beyond the horizon, in agreement with many vhf and microwave experiments. Modes thus calculated are supported by ordinary coherent molecular scattering in normal air dielectric layer. At times, superrefraction and macroscopic turbulence are additional mechanisms for propagation deep into the shadow of the earth bulge."
"A system for the measurement of the variations in electrical lengths of radio propagation paths is described. The observed path-length instabilities are considered to be caused bythe same atmospheric turbulence responsible for the existence of very high frequency and ultra high frequency fields far beyond the radio horizon. Results obtained on 172.8 mc and 1,046 mc along 3½-, 10-, and 60-mile paths are reported. It is pointed out that measurements of this type provide a powerful tool for the study of the size and intensity of the refractivity variations of the atmosphere giving rise to the observed phenomenon."
"The phase difference between 9,350 megacycle-per-second radio signals received from a common transmitter at two horizontally spaced antennas was measured by the Electrical Engineering Research Laboratory of the University of Texas during March, 1955. The transmitter was located on Cheyenne Mountain in Colorado and the site of the receiver was at Fort Carson, 3.5 miles distant. The elevation angle of the transmitter as seen from the receivers was 9 degrees. This paper presents and discusses the results of these measurements."
"This paper presents a summary of airborne refractive index measurements which have been made at many locations in the United States both over land and off the east and west coasts, by several organizations. Included are the results of studies of the mean vertical structure of the index of refraction of the atmosphere as a function of such factors as location, season, horizontal distance, and time. Included also are the results of measurements of the fine detail variations of refractive index about its mean value at several locations for altitudes up to 20,000 feet mean sea level."
"An extensive series of observations was obtained with two refractometers and meteorological equipment installed on various levels of a 128-meter tower at the Brookhaven National Laboratory, Long Island, New York. One of the refractometers was equipped with a multiple cavity unit for the study of correlation between two positions in the horizontal direction. The errors arising from the exposure of the cavity to the atmosphere and its ventilation were investigated. The amplitude of the refractive index variations could be correlated with various meteorological conditions. From the experimentally determined cross-correlation coefficient, and assuming that its variation with distance is given by the exponential (Taylor) form, scales in the neighborhood of 60 meters were obtained. A crude analysis of the data indicated that the intensity of the refractive index inhomogeneities varied, on the average, as the 1.6 power of their size."
"A consistent correlation has been found between the monthly median values of 100mc transmission loss and an atmospheric parameter ΔN which is determined from standard radiosonde observations. ΔN is defined as the difference between the refractivity at the earth's surface and at one kilometer above the earth's surface. ΔN is determined from the midpoint of the propagation path and is taken to represent an effective gradient of the refractive index. It is found to yield correlation coefficients with transmission loss of about 0.7 even in the far scattering region. This correlation is also used to derive estimates of the annual, geographic, and terrain variances of the transmission loss. Six-year average values of NΔ are presented for the United States and can be used as an aid in the prediction of the annual cycle of 100 mc transmission loss. The possibility of using surface observations of N for times of day other than the radiosonde observation hours is examined and found to be encouraging. One of the major conclusions is that the observed dependence of transmission loss upon ΔN is five times greater than that indicated by standard propagation theory."
"Some short-term fading characteristics of a type of ionospheric propagation first described by Bailey, et al. are presented and discussed. Continuous wave transmissions from Cedar Rapids, Iowa, on 49.8 mc were received at Sterling, Virginia, on either rhombic or Yagi antennas directed toward the transmitter. The second detector output of a linear receiver was used to provide a voltage proportional to the envelope of the received signal. This fluctuating voltage was recorded, edited, and then analyzed to determine the probability distribution and autocorrelation function of the signal envelope. The correlation of the envelopes of signals received on spaced antennas was similarly determined for antennas spaced both normal and parallel to the transmission path."
"The effect of variations in index of refraction on line-of-sight propagation of electromagnetic waves in the troposphere is investigated using, in this paper, a ray theory approach. Mean-square variations in phase delay and phase correlation between two paths are calculated. It is shown that these quantities are relatively insensitive to the form of space correlation function assumed for the index of refraction. The mean-square phase is proportional to ΔN2l0 where l0 is scale length and ΔN2 the mean-square variation in index of refraction, whereas in beyond line-of-sight propagation the received power is proportional to ΔN2/l0. Variations in angle of arrival are also calculated and it is shown that here the assumed space correlation of index of refraction is critical in determining the angle of arrival characteristics. It is shown, however, that a certain portion of the angle-of-arrival spectrum is insensitive to the choice."
"The foregoing investigation of lie-of-sight propagation through a turbulent atmosphere is continued and enlarged. Generalizations of the ray calculation to include scattering contributions by off-axis blobs are given. It is found that the previous expressions for rms phase errors are substantially maintained. The dependence of these fluctuations on receiving antenna beamwidth is adduced. These techniques are then applied to estimate phase scintillation for transmission through a rainstorm. Meteorological data are used to relate such errors to rainfall intensity and infer scintillation frequency spectra. Numerical values for these effects are given for representative atmospheric conditions."
"This study considers the line-of-sight propagation of electromagnetic waves in a turbulent medium. Interest here centers on the received signal's phase stability. The field equation describing propagation through a region characterized by random dielectric fluctuations is first developed. Solutions of this equation which represent the scattered field are derived with ordinary perturbation theory. These solutions are next used to calculate the rms phase error for an arbitrary path in the troposphere. This approach includes both a three dimensional and near-field description for the multipath, scattered amplitudes; thereby overcoming the limitations of previous treatments. The phase correlation between signals received on two parallel transmission paths is derived last to illustrate the role of overlapping antennae beams."
"Radio transmission loss measurements made over four propagation paths approximately 100 miles in length show the effect of a large mountain obstacle on vhf and uhf ground-to-ground propagation. Recordings of transmission loss were obtained at four sites as a function of receiving antenna height and by mobile measurements along a route normal to the propagation path. Measurements for propagation directly over Pikes Peak exhibit the well defined lobing associated with four ray-path diffraction theory. Theoretical approximations based on the Fresnel-Kirchhoff scalar knife-edge diffraction theory predict values of transmission loss and lobe structures which are in good agreement with those observed. Measurements for propagation to the east and west of Pikes Peak are characterized by lower fields at all frequencies and large fading ranges."
"The main factors influencing the propagation of continuous radio signals by reflection from meteoric ionization trails are reviewed and summarized. A procedure is given for calculating the system parameters required to maintain the signal received over a given path above the cosmic background noise level for 95 per cent of the time. It is pointed out that the variation of signal level with frequency and path length measured for certain \"ionospheric forward scatter\" circuits, agrees well with calculations based on the assumption that the propagation is entirely by scattering from meteor ion trails. It is suggested that ionospheric scatter is predominantly meteoric at night in the lower latitudes. To the extent that this is true, the minmum performance level of existing circuits could be improved by use of antennas designed to maximize the meteoric component of the signal. Present designs actually tend to discriminate against meteors."
"Scattering of a plane wave normally incident on a meteor trail which has a Gaussian radial distribution of ionization is investigated for various line densities by the wave-matching technique. Solutions were obtained by numerical integration methods with the aid of the SWAC, a high-speed digital computer. For a column of low line density, 1013 electrons per meter, scatter in the back direction checks very closely the results of approximate analyses made by previous workers. In the case of a low-line-density column having a diameter comparable to a wavelength, scatter in all other directions for both transverse and parallel electric vector polarization of the-incident wave checks simple theory based on the summation of scattering by individual electrons. The energy back-scattered by a trail of high line density, 1017 electrons per meter, is found to be nearly equal to the energy which would be back-scattered from an equivalent metal cylinder, thus checking previous approximate calculations. The equivalent metal cylinder is also found to be a good approximation to the actual ion column for scattering in other directions, but only in the case of parallel polarization of the incident wave. The results further show that echoes from high-line-density trails in directions other than the back direction may be appreciably higher than would be anticipated. This would tend to confirm certain recent experimental observations of forward scattering from meteor trails."
"A discussion is given of the transmission loss expected in free space with various types of antennas, followed by a description of theoretical prediction curves for the transmission loss expected in tropospheric propagation on over-land paths. The Bremmer-van der Pol theory of diffraction and the Booker-Gordon and Weisskopf-Villars theories of tropospheric forward scattering are then developed in terms of angular distance as a parameter. Angular distance is the angle in the great circle plane between the radio horizon rays from the transmitting and receiving antennas. It is shown that this parameter replaces, to a first order of approximation, both the transmission path length and the antenna heights. Angular distance is shown to be useful for predicting the short term within-the-hour fading range as well as the median transmission loss. Illustrations are presented of the theoretical dependence of transmission loss on the angular distance, transmission path length, antenna height, radio frequency, and a parameter ΔN which is a measure of the vertical gradient of atmospheric refractive index. Most of the long-term variations of the scattered field intensities with time, as well as the climatological variations, are attributed to changes in ΔN. A new theory of obstacle gain is developed, and it is shown that this is particularly useful for explaining some of the unusually strong fields which have been observed just beyond the horizon in overland propagation."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Mr. Hunter joined the IRE as an Associate in 1928; he became a Member in 1941, Senior Member in 1943, and a Fellow in 1947. He is now serving on the Education Committee and devotes himself to editing the newly created Student Quarterly. A brief biography is provided."
"The IRE has a student quarterly publication because Ted Hunter realized that the students needed one, and that it was in the interests of the IRE to supply it. In 1953, with the help of friends and students, he got out a sample issue himself. He sold the idea to the IRE. Starting September of last year, every Student Member has received a free copy of each issue. The IRE has a good student quarterly because Ted Hunter understands students. The Student Quarterly tells and reassures the students about the experiences in a first engineering job in words they can understand-the words of men a few months out of college. It tells students about the opportunities in various fields of engineering. It tells the students about the various Professional Groups. It contains understandable technical articles which members of the faculty can assign as course work if the students fail to read them voluntarily."
"The use of filters whose cutoff characteristics are controllable by electronic means is often desirable in problems dealing with audio signals. Based on the recent work on fixed RC active filters by J. G. Linvill, variable active low-pass and high-pass filters have been developed using transistor negative-impedance converters. The design theory of such filters is summarized, and measured characteristics and other experimental results are presented. An application, in which the cutoff characteristics are controlled by the incoming audio signal for use in formant tracking, is described, and experimental results are given."
"The microwave magnetic field in a small ferrite sphere and thin circular cylinder is found in first approximation. In a circularly polarized exciting field the internal field is again circularly polarized. The ratio of the internal field to the exciting field is 3(µ±α+2)-1 for the sphere and 2(µ±α+1)-1 for the cylinder. When the exciting field is linearly polarized the internal field is elliptically polarized. The expressions derived are applied to the calculation of the detuning and change of Q of microwave resonators containing ferrite spheres, cylinders and discs. Conversely they provide a means for the calculation of the elements of the permeability tensor from the experimentally observable change in cavity characteristics. The ferromagnetic resonant frequencies calculated from the present formulas are in agreement with those obtained by Kittel by the use of demagnetizing factors."
"The principle and design of the trigger circuit of a signal-seeking radio using the \"difference-voltage\" of an IF transformer is described in this paper. The \"difference-voltage\" is first expressed in a mathematical form, from which the ''crossover points\" can be found. Constant anticipation can be obtained if this \"difference-voltage\" is used as a trigger pulse to stop the seeking action. The amount of anticipation is related with the mixing index n and parameters of the IF transformer and it can be expressed in a simple form. The effect of the avc delay voltage in the described circuit does not affect the amount of anticipation. It only affects the proper trigger level. \"Error-asymmetry\" and the utilization of the property of detuning the output IF transformer in unidirectional seeker are discussed. Besides the error due to the improper trigger level, there are errors due to the nonlinearity of the tuner. This results in the socalled \"error spread.\" Formulas for the amount of anticipation desired in terms of the tuner sweep characteristics and the stopping time are given. The design of the IF transformer with respect to errors due to components tolerances is fully discussed. Approximate formulas are derived for the error variations."
"The characteristics of a backward-wave circuit as a beam modulator and as a beam demodulator are investigated theoretically and experimentally. A basic modulator-demodulator configuration, consisting of two periodic circuits (e.g., helices) separated by an arbitrary transducer section, constitutes the basis for a new class of backward-wave tubes. These \"cascade backward-wave amplifiers\" behave as narrow-band amplifiers whose pass bands can be tuned electronically over a wide range of frequencies. They overcome most of the inherent disadvantages of the simple single-circuit backward-wave amplifier and feature high gain well removed from the oscillation region, high off-signal rejection, internal circuit terminations which smooth out variations in operating characteristics with frequency, and provision for adjusting bandwidth electronically. The characteristics of an experimental model at S-band are presented and compared with theory. Analysis indicates that a minimum noise figure in the same range as that of a conventional traveling-wave tube, i.e., about 6 db, should be attainable."
"Blocking oscillators are useful as generators of rectangular pulses. Though junction transistors with alpha cutoff frequencies of a few megacycles have been most frequently used for low-frequency applications, they make surprisingly fast blocking oscillators. Rise times shorter than 0.1 microsecond have been analytically predicted and experimentally obtained. A simple but experimentally verified analysis indicates the proper transformer design for best rise time and prescribed pulse width. Using extensions of the primary results, one can evaluate triggering requirements and the effect of loading on the oscillator performance. Experimental results support these extensions."
"A theory of shot noise in junction diodes and transistors is presented, based upon a transmission line analogy. The noise is caused by the randomness in the diffusion of the minority carriers and the randomness in the recombination of minority and majority carriers. In transmission line analogy, first process corresponds to distributed noise emf's in series with transmission line, and second process corresponds to distributed noise current generators in parallel to transmission line. After magnitude of these equivalent distributed noise sources has been determined, noise problem is solved by standard methods. It is found that theoretical results for a junction diode agree with experimental work published earlier. An equivalent circuit describing the noise in transistors is presented. It contains two partially correlated noise current generators ip1 and ip2, ip1, connected across the emitter junction and ip2 connected across the collector junction. (ipi2)av, (ip22)av and (ip1*ip2)av are calculated. At low frequencies emitter and collector current show full shot effect and ip1 and ip2 are almost completely correlated; at higher frequencies the correlation becomes less complete. The noise can also be described by an emf e8 in series with the emitter and a current generator ip in parallel to the collector junction. (e82)av, (ip2)av and (e8*ip)av are calculated. At low frequencies e8 and ip are uncorrelated, but some correlation is expected at higher frequencies. Low-frequency results resemble earlier equivalent circuits of Montgomery, Clark, and van der Ziel, and of Giacoletto."
"Radio teletype transmission is of such a nature that once the signal goes far enough into noise, reliable reception rapidly deteriorates. This paper calls attention to a system for radio teletype communication that has advantages that have been demonstrated both theoretically and experimentally. A new system for teletype communication is described that involves the use of several frequencies instead of the two, called \"mark and space,\" used in convention frequency shift keying (FSK) operation. By so doing, longer pulses are allowed for equivalent transmission rates, and as a result smaller detection bandwidths are possible. The main advantage is a greater correlation between received signal plus noise and the transmitted signal. Probability of error from information theory is used to find the theoretical gain of two multiple frequency shift (MFS) systems over the conventional FSK system. Coding, filters, and special circuitry are described. An experimental comparison of one MFS system and conventional FSK operation is presented on the basis of error counts using both white and impulse noise superimposed on the signal. Theoretical gains are checked by the laboratory experimental work."
"The problem involved here is the development of a shore antenna for shore-to-ship communications at distances from 40 to 500 miles. The difficulty at these distances is due to interference between ground-wave and sky-wave modes of propagation. The propagation factors involved are considered and it is shown that (1) A frequency less than 3.3 mc should be used, (2) The ground wave should be used during the day and (3), The sky wave should be used at night. An azimuthally omnidirectional antenna is described which consists of vertical monopoles equally spaced around the circumference of a circle. The antenna can be excited in either of two ways, one of which concentrates the radiated energy along the ground for use with the ground wave, and the other of which gives maximum radiation at a polar angle of 30 degrees and a null in the ground plane for use with the skywave. The results of model tests at 30 mc and at 1,200 mc are given. Results of calculations showing the expected coverage for noon and midnight are included."
"A continuous phase shifter using circularly polarized helices in a circular waveguide is described. The phase shifter is smaller than previous types and has an insertion loss of less than 0.2 db. Equations for the phase-shift error and the amount of amplitude modulation produced due to reflections and elliptical polarization are derived. Errors less than ±2° can be obtained over a 3 per cent frequency band. A 9,400-mc model designed to rotate at 3,600 rpm is 5 1/2 inches long and 1 inch in diameter, excluding the motor drive."
"The detection of weak thermal radiation and similar noise-like signals is often limited by the internal noise of the receiving apparatus. Dicke has described a method of detecting such signals. It employs a mechanical modulator at the input of a wide-band superheterodyne receiver. The detected output of the receiver is multiplied by a voltage of the same frequency as that which actuates the modulator, and filtered to produce a dc voltage when an external signal is present. Another method has been proposed which uses two independent receivers. The undetected output voltages are cross-correlated, and the correlator yields a dc voltage when a signal is applied to both receivers. Each method can be used to measure the intensity of signals small in amplitude compared to the noise of the receiver. A mathematical model of each of the circuits is presented, using, insofar as possible, the same assumptions; and equations derived for the least detectable signal power of each. The two-receiver method has, under the assumptions made, somewhat greater sensitivity. Engineering problems associated with each of the radiometers are discussed."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists the chairmen of the various Professional groups along with their contact information."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides a listing of abstract numbers, Proceedings issue, and pages for the articles published in this volume of the Proceedings."
"All Abstracts anid References which appeared in PROCEEDINGS OF THE IRE from June, 1946 (when they first were published as reprints from Wireless Engineer, London, Englanid) through December, 1946, are inidexed by author aiid subject in Section I. Section I also contains the index of all Abstracts and References previously published in Wireless Engineer from January through May of the same year."
"A name followed by \"and\" is that of the first author of a jointly written paper, while the word \"with\" indicates that the name indexed is that of the second author."
"Symbols used in this index: (A) Abstract, (B) Book Review, (C) Note of Correction, (D) Discussion."
"This section contains an index, listed separately by author and by subject, for all Abstracts and References published in PROCEEDINGS OF THE IRE from February, 1947, through January, 1948."
"A name followed bv \"and\" is that of the first author of a jointly written paper, while the word \"with\" indicates that the name indexed is that of the second author."
"Symbols used in this index: (A) Abstract, (B) Book Review, (C) Note of Correction, (D) Discussion."
"This section contains an index, listed separately by author and by subject, for all Abstracts and References published in PROCEEDINGS OF THE IRE from February, 1948, through January, 1949."
"A name followed by \"and\" is that of the first author of a jointly written paper, while the word \"with\" indicates that the name indexed is that of the second author."
"Symbols used in this index: (A) Abstract, (B) Book Review, (C) Note of Correction, (D) Discussion."
"A selection of the journals which are regularly scanned for content of interest to our readers is given here, together with the addresses of publishers or editorial offices and the abbreviations of titles as used in the Abstracts and References. Applications for copies of any journal should be made to the addresses given. The full title of each journal is given first and is followed by the address, the abbreviated title being shown within parentheses. In a few cases the nature of a journal is indicated, where neither the title nor the address shows it clearly."
"This sectioni contains an index, listed separately by author and by subject, for all Abstracts and References published in PROCEEDINGS OF THE IRE from February, 1949, through January, 1950."
"A name followed by \"and\" is that of the first author of a jointly written paper, while the word \"with\" indicates that the name indexed is that of the second author."
"This listing includes technical, sociological, economic, and general papers."
"A selection of the journals which are regularly scanned for content of interest to our readers is given here, together with the addresses of publishers or editorial offices and the abbreviations of titles as used in the Abstracts and References. Applications for copies of any journal should be made to the addresses given. The full title of each journal is given first and is followed by the address, the abbreviated title being shown within parentheses. In a few cases the nature of a journal is indicated, where neither the title nor the address shows it clearly."
"This sectioin contains an index, listed separately by author and by subject, for all Abstracts and References published in PROCEEDINGS OF THE IRE from February, 1950, through January, 1951."
"A name followed by \"and\" is that of the first author of a jointly written paper, while the word \"with\" indicates that the name indexed is that of the second author."
"Symbols used in this index: (A) Abstract, (B) Book Review, (C) Note of Correction, (D) Discussion."
"A selection of the journals which are regularly scanned for content of interest to our readers is given here, together with the addresses of publishers or editorial offices and the abbreviations of titles as used in the Abstracts and References. Applications for copies of any journal should be made to the addresses given. The full title of each journal is given first and is followed by the address, the abbreviated title being shown within parentheses. In a few cases the nature of a journal is indicated, where neither the title nor the address shows it clearly."
"This sectioni conitains an inidex, listed separately by author and by subject, for all Abstracts and References published in PROCEEDINGS OF THE IRE from February, 1951, throuigh January, 1952."
"A name followed by \"and\" is that of the first author of a jointly written paper, while the word \"with\" indicates that the name indexed is that of the second author."
"Symbols used in this index: (A) Abstract, (B) Book Review, (C) Note of Correction, (D) Discussion."
"A selection of the journals which are regularly scanned for content of interest to our readers is given here, together with the addresses of publishers or editorial offices and the abbreviations of titles as used in the Abstracts and References. Applications for copies of any journal should be made to the addresses given. The full title of each journal is given first and is followed by the address, the abbreviated title being shown within parentheses. In a few cases the nature of a journal is indicated, where neither the title nor the address shows it clearly."
"This section contains an index, listed separately by author and by subject, for all Abstracts and References published in PROCEEDINGS OF THE IRE from February, 1952, through January, 1953."
"A name followed bv \"and\" is that of the first author of a jointly written paper, while the word \"with\" indicates that the name indexed is that of the second author."
"Symbols used in this index: (A) Abstract, (B) Book Review, (C) Note of Correction, (D) Discussion."
"A selection of the journals which are regularly scanned for content of interest to our readers is given here, together with the addresses of publishers or editorial offices and the abbreviations of titles as used in the Abstracts and References. Applications for copies of any journal should be made to the addresses given. The full title of each journal is given first and is followed by the address, the abbreviated title being shown within parentheses. In a few cases the nature of a journal is indicated, where neither the title nor the address shows it clearly."
"This section cointains an index, listed separately by author and by subject, for all Abstracts and References published in PROCEEDINGS OF THE IRE from February, 1953, through Janiuary, 1954."
"A name followed by \"and\" is that of the first author of a jointly written paper, while the word \"with\" indicates that the name indexed is that of the second author."
"Symbols used in this index: (A) Abstract, (B) Book Review, (C) Note of Correction, (D) Discussion."
"A selection of the journals which are regularly scanned for content of interest to our readers is given here, together with the addresses of publishers or editorial offices and the abbreviations of titles as used in the Abstracts and References. Applications for copies of any journal should be made to the addresses given. The full title of each journal is given first and is followed by the address, the abbreviated title being shown within parentheses. In a few cases the nature of a journal is indicated, where neither the title nor the address shows it clearly."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"This article, which is of a tutorial character, is concerned with three broad subjects: (a) the theory of electronic energy bands in a perfect crystal; (b) the electronic energy band structure of silicon and germanium crystals; and (c) the relationship between some of the electrical and optical properties of these crystals and their energy band schemes. The article is essentially an introduction to the quantum theory of crystals, with silicon and germanium serving as illustrative examples. As such, the article should appeal particularly to electronic engineers and physicists working in the field of solid state electronics. A knowledge of quantum mechanics is probably not essential to the understanding of major portions of this paper. The following topics are treated: crystal symmetry and crystal geometry; electronic quantum states in a perfect crystal; the energy band scheme; occupancy of the electronic quantum states; the hole concept; the effective mass tensor; velocity and acceleration of electrons and holes; the spin-orbit interaction and its consequences; the energy band structures of silicon and germanium; the band structure of germanium-silicon alloys; theory of lattice vibrations; the phonon concept; collisions between electrons or holes and phonons; the electrical conductivity; optical absorption and emission processes."
"The following is a brief description of nonlinear dielectrics from the standpoint of the fundamental physics involved. Specific available materials and technical applications are considered only by way of illustration of general properties. It is shown that, although dielectric nonlinearity and ferroelectricity are quite different phenomena, the fact that ferroelectrics have high dielectric constants makes them the most likely materials to exhibit a high degree of nonlinearity at electric field strengths safely below the breakdown values."
"Some recent developments in the study of ferroelectricity are described. Special consideration is given to crystal and domain structures, and their contributions to the dielectric behavior of ferroelectrics and antiferroelectrics."
"This paper presents a running story of semiconductor research from its earliest beginnings up to the present day, with special emphasis on the inception of new ideas and the resolution of older discrepancies. At several points in the story; short interludes are taken to fill in the status as of that time. Semiconductor research began quite inconspicuously about 120 years ago with some observations on the electrical properties of silver suphide. Progress was very slow for the next 50 years and then, about 1885, a mild interest developed with the discovery of point contact rectifiers. These devices were used as detectors until displaced by the vacuum tube around 1915. Development of selenium and cuprous oxide rectifiers about 1930 revived interest and the publication of a good theory of semiconductors in 1931 added still more momentum. The next period of active interest came around World War II when the catwhisker diode was revived and developed into an excellent radar detector. The announcement of the transistor in 1948 gave this field of research such a boost that it has become a real giant in the last few years and semiconductor electronics now rates as a major field of endeavor."
"The density and kind of charge carriers in semiconductors are controlled by the density and nature of added impurities. The charge carriers (electrons and holes) move about in the crystal simultaneously by diffusion and drift. Rectification occurs at p-n boundaries because of the difference in the carrier types on either side. Junction transistors, capable of amplification, consist of two junctions placed close to each other with a thin middle region or base layer. As a switch, the junction transistor is capable of switching \"on\" to voltage of the order of 10 millivolts and slope resistances of a few ohms. In transmission applications experimental junction transistors have been built to give useful power output at 250 mc and with maximum frequency of oscillation in the range from 500 to 1,000 mc. Reliability experience to date has been encouraging; some systems are operating with replacement rate as low as one per 150,000 transistor hours."
"Germanium and silicon are probably the two best known of all of the semiconductors. Their electronic properties have been studied in great detail both theoretically and experimentally. The reason for this is that these two materials are of such great practical importance for transistors and rectifiers. Perhaps less generally appreciated is the fact that both of these materials are excellent photoconductors. Their intrinsic response extends through the entire visible spectrum into the near infrared. When doped with appropriate foreign atoms and operated at low temperatures, these materials are very effective impurity photoconductors with response extending into the far infrared portions of the spectrum."
"The intermetallic semiconductors are classified with respect to their crystal structure and to the place of the component elements in the periodic system. A survey is given of the properties of compounds with the zincblende and fluorite lattice. Photoeffects of individual members of these two groups are discussed. Such phenomena include photoconduction, photovoltage, and the photoelectro-magnetic effect."
"The highlights of recent photoconductivity research on evaporated, powder, and sintered layers, and on single crystals of photoconductors in the group ZnS, CdS, ZnSe, CdSe, ZnTe, and CdTe are reviewed. The following aspects of photoconductivity are discussed: spectral response, impurity sensitization, electrode contact problems, conductivity, mobility, speed of response, photocurrent vs light intensity, photocurrent vs temperature, infrared quenching, thermally stimulated current and trapping, space-charge limited current, photoconductivity and luminescence, photovoltaic effect, photoemissive effect, and surface photoconductivity. The utility of the concepts of the Fermi-level and demarcationlevel in the description of many photoconductivity phenomena is briefly discussed."
"All semi-conductors and insulators are photoconductors. The characteristic parameter of a photoconductor is the life time of a free carrier. The photo-electron current is equal to the product of absorbed photon current and the ratio of life time to transit time of a free carrier. This relation holds as well for the commonly known types of barriers as for uniform photoconductors. The photo-electron current may range from a small fraction of the photon current to many powers of ten greater than the photon current depending on the ratio of life time to transit time. There is good evidence for life times in different photoconductors extending from 10-12 seconds to values approaching a second. The life times of free electrons and free holes are in general independent of each other and markedly different. Only at sufficiently high excitation rates for which the free carrier densities exceed the densities of bound states do the electron and hole life times necessarily become equal. The usual termination of the life time of a free carrier is by recombination with a deep lying bound state in the forbidden zone. These recombination processes are structure sensitive, complex, and generally not amenable to exact solution. A useful insight can be gained by dividing the bound states into deep-lying states, called ground states, that govern the rates of recombination and thereby the free carrier densities; and shallow lying bound states, called traps, that are responsible for observed response times exceeding the carrier life times."
"This review article discusses the fundamental basis of photoconductivity in lead sulphide, telluride, and selenide, and its application in modern highly sensitive infrared detectors. The first part of the paper deals with the manufacture of cells and the processing of photosensitive layers; and with the characteristics of the final detectors, such as response time, sensitivity, and spectral distribution of sensitivity. The factors determining the maximum attainable sensitivity are discussed. The second part covers fundamental semiconducting properties of the three materials, including absorption, activation energies, carrier lifetimes and effective masses; and the theory of photoeffects in layers. Some applications of these detectors are described. An extensive list of references is given."
"A simple theory is developed for the performance of the basic element of a storage light amplifier. This theory permits the determination of the optimum operating frequency and of restrictions, which have to be imposed on operating characteristics, such as the feedback ratio, in order to make storage possible. The theory is compared with a set of experimental data obtained for a basic element of a storage light amplifier. The comparison leads to numerical values for a set of parameters appearing in the theoretical analysis. In view of the approximate nature of the assumptions made, the agreement between theory and experiment is considered to be very satisfactory. The information obtained from the analysis of this basic element is used to design a large display area model of a storage light amplifier. The processing techniques involved are described briefly in an Appendix."
"This paper describes an experimental amplifier for light which uses a photoconductive layer electrically in series with an electroluminescent phosphor layer. With the series combination excited by an alternating voltage of audio frequency; e.g., 400 cps, a low light level impinging on the photoconductor decreases its resistance sufficiently to cause a much larger light output from the phosphor. Large-area light-amplifying panels, 12 inches square, using a newly developed photoconductive CdS powder have been built. These panels are capable of producing intensified half-tone images with high resolution. The response time of these panels, determined basically by the photoconductive material, varies from 0.1 second to several seconds. New photoconductive materials offer promise of greatly increased speed. Since the photoconductors can be made sensitive to X-rays and infrared, the principles of the device may be useful for image conversion and intensification with these radiation sources."
"The transducing properties of electroluminescent and photo-responsive cells are described. The light amplifying and spectrum-converting characteristics of a circuit consisting of an electric power supply and a series combination of the two types of cells whose impedances have been matched are discussed. The construction and operation of an opto-electronic bistable device-the \"optron\"-employing positive radiation feedback, is reported. The optron is both a storage cell and a switch with dual (optical and electrical) signal input and output. Numerous logic networks, composed of electric series and parallel combinations of electroluminescent and photo-conductive cells with selected optical couplings have been designed, constructed, and operated."
"A review of recent advances in fundamental knowledge of the mechanism of luminescence excitation by electrons is given. The development of the scintillation counter and studies of electron scattering together with progress in the study of photo-luminescence mechanisms in phosphors have provided a new basis for establishing a sound theory of cathodoluminescence. It is shown that the brightness-voltage relations for conventional screens result from the complex microcrystalline form of the phosphor. Single crystal studies with electron beam and single particle excitation reveal a more simple behavior. Ultimate screen efficiency is shown to be strongly dependent on loss of scattered primary and secondary electrons from the phosphor surface and on nonradiative electron-hole recombination in electron traps and other nonluminescent centers. Current saturation and electron burn are also discussed"
"Light may be generated by the direct action of an electric field on various solid materials by a number of different mechanisms (electroluminescence). Electric fields may also influence luminescence phenomena excited by various types of radiation (electrophotoluminescence). The varied phenomena which have been observed, and their dependence on the operating parameters, are reviewed and theoretical explanations are given where possible. Possible practical applications of electroluminescence and electro-photolutminescence are also discussed."
"After a historical introduction, a survey is given of the present views regarding the constitution and the preparation of inorganic crystal phosphors. Particular attention is paid to the incorporation of atoms with a valency deviating from that of the atoms of the base material, and to the stabilization of atoms in a particular valency."
"After an elementary introduction on the origin of magnetism, intended for the reader who is not acquainted with the subject, it is shown how the molecular-field hypothesis can account for the magnetic properties of ferromagnetics and antiferromagnetics, and for the noncompensated antiferromagnetics, with which latter materials we are concerned here. A brief description of the spinel lattice is given, and an account of the crystal chemistry of the spinels which is necessary to understand the experimental saturation magnetizations which are discussed. A short survey of methods of preparation is given. The second part discusses the anisotropies, and some of the magnetization processes which influence permeability, and the factors which influence high-frequency permeability and losses. Among these are the ferromagnetic resonance phenomenon and the dimensional resonance and relaxation phenomena. In this part the way in which these factors are influenced by chemical composition and preparation technique is indicated. Finally, a short history of the development of the ferrites is given"
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Prof. Tank is Docteur es Sciences Techniques Honoris Causa of the Ecole Polytechnique de l'Universite de Lausanne, member of the German Academy of Science and Literature in Mainz, of \"Det Kongelige Norske Videnskabers Selskab\" in Trondheim, and of a number of other scientific societies in Switzerland and abroad. In 1950 he received the IRE Fellow Award \"for his contributions to the field of radio education in Switzerland and his accomplishments in ultra short wave communication.\" A short biography of Prof Tank is provided."
"The Seventh Plenary Assembly of the International Radio Consultative Committee (CCIR) was held in London from September 3 through October 7, 1953. Although many members of the Institute may be unfamiliar with the work of this Committee, it may have far-reaching effects upon the progress of radio. The London meeting approved 165 documents, each of them a possible subject for a technical paper. The purpose of this paper is to give a brief outline of the work accomplished in that assembly and to describe briefly the organization and functions of the CCIR."
"This paper describes a new arrangement for generating short pulses. The circuit consists essentially of a loop containing an amplifier, expandor, bandpass filter, a time delay, and a means of automatic gain control. The circuit is controlled to give a round trip gain of unity for the pulse. Under this condition a pulse travels around the loop, alternately being sharpened in the expandor and broadened in the filter. An output tap delivers identical pulses recurring at a rate determined by the loop delay, shape determined principally by the expandor and filter characteristics, and length controlled principally by the filter bandwidth. Pulses modulated in frequency may be obtained by adding a nonlinear phase-frequency characteristic to the loop delay. Microwave radio frequency pulses as short as 0.002 microsecond, and direct current pulses as short as 0.005 microsecond (at half-amplitude) have been produced directly. The principles involved may have application in pulse communication and radar, and have already found use in pulse measurements of broadband circuits."
"The progress which has been made in recent years in analyzing and understanding the electromagnetic properties of helical structures is reviewed here. After a brief account of work prior to about 1950, the results obtained from an analysis of the sheath helix model are summarized. The more physically realistic tape helix model and its characteristics-forbidden regions, space harmonics, etc.-are discussed. Recent extensions to the analysis of the sheath helix model including the effect of radially stratified mediums, both isotropic and anisotropic, are noted. Also, additional work using the tape or finite wire helix model is reviewed. Finally, the recent investigations of filter helixes and contrawound helixes are discussed."
"At high electric fields, electron current densities exceeding 108 acm2 are emitted from metals, the emission process requiring no energy. The present paper discusses properties of such emitters and progress towards stabilizing their electrical performance under useful conditions."
"A mathematical analysis of odd integer frequency multiplication is presented in this paper. Experimental examples of a 300 watt, 400-2,000 cps tripler and a 3 watt, 400-2,000 cps quintupler are discussed. Output wave forms are shown for multipliers employing two types of core materials. The improved circuitry and appropriate selection of magetic materials as employed in today's magnetic frequency multipliers make the generation of power in the 400-2,000 cps range simple and reliable, and such that efficiencies in the order of 80-90 per cent are possible. In addition, the features of space conservation and power economy can be obtained."
"The coupling impedance and its frequency dependency of tubular and disc-type ceramic feed-through capacitors are investigated theoretically and experimentally. The superiority of discoidal feed-throughs with respect to high-frequency performance and mechanical ruggedness is shown. In the UHF range filtering gains of 20 db to 30 db can be achieved when replacing tubular feed-throughs by discoidal units. Because of this merit, improved shielding methods, which are discussed, are required."
"A general theory of the n-section quarter-wave transformer is presented. It is shown that optimum bandwidth with a minimum pass band tolerance is obtained when the power loss ratio is chosen to give Tchebycheff behavior in the pass band. A comparison is made of the Tchebycheff transformer and the maximally flat transformer, and shows that the former gives a large increase in bandwidth-e.g., up to 44 per cent for a 2-section transformer and up to 75 per cent for a 4-section transformer. Design formulas are given for the 2, 3 and 4-section transformers."
"A method of preparing high back voltage silicon by bombarding the surface with oxygen has been devised and a new type of point contact diode prepared. The diode is characterized by: (1) very low saturation currents of the order of 1 microampere, (2) high inverse operating voltages (70-200v), (3) very low barrier capacitance (<0.3μ f) and rapid recovery times, and (4) operation at elevated temperatures up to 200 degrees C."
"A description of beam-type amplifiers, in particular the klystron and traveling-wave tube, is developed in which the electroh stream and the circuit are treated as coupled transmission lines. The method allows the derivation of expressions for the ac power flow in both the beam and the circuit. The power flow relations are presented for the klystron and the traveling-wave tube."
"An investigation of noise from modem junction transistors in audio frequency amplifiers is presented. Different circuit configurations are examined and the effects on noise factor of the input termination and operating point are discussed. At least three distinct sources of noise corresponding to different physical phenomena contributing to total noise are identified. In modem junction transistors shot noise and thermal noise set the ultimate limit of noise in transistor amplifiers, and are frequency-independent over the audio spectrum. Semiconductor noise which follows approximately the 1/f law has been found to be just one contributor to total transistor noise. The concept of equivalent input noise resistance is applied to transistor circuits and a comparison is drawn between noise of transistor and vacuum-tube amplifiers."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Mr. Dyer joined the IRE in 1930 as a Junior Member. He became an Associate in 1932 and a Senior Member in 1945. In 1949 he received the Fellow Award \"for administrative and technical contributions to radio, including polar-expedition communications and important wartime radio countermeasures.\" Mr. Dyer has served on the Navigation Aids Committee and as a representative for the Long Island Subsection. In 1950 he was elected Chairman of the subsection. A brief biography is provided."
"The large-signal or nonlinear behavior of the traveling-wave amplifier is calculated in this paper by numerically integrating a set of equations of motion, which is essentially that of Nordsieck, but includes the space-charge repulsion between the electrons. The calculations were made assuming a loss-free circuit and a small coupling between the circuit and the beam. A method of computing the space-charge field, by summing the forces between the electrons, is fully described. It is found that in the large signal theory a parameter A is required in addition to the space-charge parameter QC. 1/k measures the range of action of the space-charge forces and is proportional to the beam radius. The other parameters including QC are those defined in the linear theory. Twenty cases covering useful ranges of the design and the operating parameters have been computed. The numerical integrations were done by type 701 IBM equipment. The amplitude and the phase of the circuit wave as functions of the distance are given for all the cases. It is found that the limiting efficiency increases with the electron injection speed, as found by Nordsieck, and increases with the space-charge parameter QC when QC is small, but decreases rapidly for larger QC. The efficiency also increases with the beam radius, or I/k, provided the assumption that the field and the current are uniformly distributed over the cross section is valid. Finally the electron motion in high level operation is analyzed. The effect of QC and of k on efficiency are explained."
"According to theory, the current which flows across a P-n junction when it is biased in the reverse direction should be nearly independent of the applied voltage. This current is called the saturation current, I8. In actual practice, the current often increases with voltage (due to leakage paths across the junction at the surface) and eventualy large currents flow as the breakdown voltage of the junction is approached. However, for \"good\" junctions well below their breakdown voltage, the reverse current follows theory so that the magnitude of I8 is of considerable practical interest. A previous equation for saturation current has been given which applies where the effect of free surfaces may be ignored and where there are quite thick (greater than a diffusion length) layers of material on either side of the junction. For alloy junctions made on thin pieces of semiconductor, these conditions are violated. In this paper a new equation is developed which applies specifically to diodes made by alloying circular junctions on thin wafers. Over its range of applicability, it gives accurate values of I8. It is shown that most of the saturation current comes from thermal generation at the free surfaces of the base wafer. The equation for I8 consists of a geometrical term and a coefficient which depends on the physical constants of the material. The principal dependences are these: I8 increases linearly with base wafer resistivity and exponentially with temperature. It also increases, but more slowly, with wafer thickness and surface recombination velocity."
"Calculations have been made for communication over a 300-km path between antennas, each consisting of a paraboloid of diameter 100 λ. It is assumed that, under normal atmospheric conditions, transmission over this distance is due to scattering by atmospheric irregularities and that the scattering phenomena are described by the formula used by Booker and Gordon. Over this path, the effect of spread in the direction of arrival of scattered power should become noticeable for beamwidths less than about 1.5 degrees. For the 0.73 degree-beams assumed, spread in the angle of arrival should show up quite markedly for synchronized beam swinging-that is, when the beams at both transmitter and receiver are swung imultaneously so that their axes continue to intersect. When the beams are swung 1 degree to one side of the great circle path, the reduction in power received should be about 7 db, as compared with more than 40 db that would occur for propagation purely in the vertical plane containing trsmitter and receiver. Narrowing the antenna beams to very small values is an important key to increasing circuit radio-frequency bandwidth capability, although at the expense of increasing antenna \"aperture-medium coupling loss\" (so-called \"gain loss\"). For the assumed circuit average bandwidth should be about 6 mcp, the loss being of the order of 10 db. For beams much larger than 1.5 degrees, the bandwidth should be limited by the medium to about 3 mcp, with negligible loss."
"Electron beams produced b y low- and moderate-perveance Pierce-type electron guns have been investigated by means of a pin-hole aperture. Data are presented showing the current density distribution and transverse velocity distribution of electrons at various points in the beam. The thermal velocity distribution is Maxwellian, with a width corresponding to the cathode temperature modified by the geometry of the flow. The transverse velocity distribution also reveals aberrations in the electron gun which has led to improved gun designs and a large improvement in the focusing of electron beams. The theoretical background for this work is given in a companion paper."
"A method is presented for determining the effect of the transverse velocities of electron emission on the flow in accelerated electron streams. Complete expressions are derived giving the degree and character of the beam spread in a Pierce-type electron gun resulting from the transverse velocity distribution, and an expression is derived for the image magnification in the pin-hole camera beam analyzer described in a companion paper. The theory clearly shows the increase in effective (transverse) beam temperature caused by beam convergence."
"The following electrical characteristics of a group of power transistors whose collector dissipation is in the region of 20 watts have been measured: the small-signal current amplification as a function of emitter current, the cutoff frequency as a function of emitter current and collector voltage, and the decrease of current amplification with increasing frequency. All these measurements were made in both common-base and common-emitter configuration. The results were compared with the theory developed for low-power transistors by Shockley, Rittner, Webster, and others, and it was found that for the frequency-dependent parameters, the agreement was quite good, but that differences exist in the case of those which are a function of current. This leads to the conclusion that further work must be done on the theory of junction power transistors."
"Five new theorems stating bounds on the transient response of certain types of networks are derived and illustrated. The first one states that any system function, whose real part on the positive real-frequency axis decreases monotonically as frequency increases, cannot have an overshoot in its step response greater than eighteen per cent, nor can its rise time, from the time that the input step is applied to the time that the response first crosses the final value line, be less than 1.22(r-K)C where r is the final value of the step response and K and 1/C are the constant term and the coefficient of the 1/s term in the inverse power-seres expansion of the system function. Similarly, the other four theorems show that when the system function is appropriately restricted, the transient response is bounded. These restrictions include never-negative or never-positive conditions on the real or imaginary parts of the system function along the real-frequency axis, while the resulting bounds are determined by certain coefficients occurring in the powerseries expansions of the system function."
"Electron trajectories for a pencil beam are studied for both uniform and periodic magnetic fields. General equations are given which apply to shielded and unshielded cathodes and all intermediate cases. The balance conditions which yield minimum ripple solutions are presented as a function of magnetic field. It is shown that these conditions require that considerable magnetic flux thread the cathode for magnetic fields in excess of the Brillouin value"
"This paper describes a voltage-tunable magnetron which can be electronically tuned in the frequency range 1,500 to 3,500 mc. This tube delivers a useful power output of approximately 200 mw and, when used as a local oscillator in a microwave receiver, gives a noise figure 3 db greater than is obtained when a reflex klystron is used with the same receiver. It is shown that temperature-limited operation of the cathode is necessary for coherent operation of the tube and that the operating voltage is greater than that predicted by the Hartree relation. The relation of tube operation and circuit parameters is discussed."
"A ribbon beam which is focused by a series of bidimensional electrostatic lenses exhibits a well-defined transverse resonance within a certain range of focusing conditions. The frequency of the resonance is derived for the case of a simple space-periodic focusing field; it is also shown that the focusing field determines the current density in the beam (and thus, in practice, the maximum usable beam current). An experiment is described which demonstrates by means of a transverse signal field the existence of the transverse electron resonance."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Lists the chairmen of the various Professional groups along with their contact information."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"One of the few outstanding and comprehensive guides to the technical literature is Abstracts and References, which has been reprinted monthly in the PROCEEDINGS since June, 1946 from Wireless Engineer in England. This material is compiled from over 200 leading journals by the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research in London for Wireless Engineer. Its appearance in PROCEEDINGS has provided readers with an extremely valuable digest of a major portion of the significant contributions to the technical literature. As valuable as this service has been, its usefulness has been only transitory. The abstracts can be read to great advantage as each issue appears, but once read, their usefulness ceases. There is no ready way of referring back to them at a later date and finding specific information. Thus, a glittering treasure of 30,000 abstracts now lies buried on the bookshelf, beyond the reach of the average reader. In order that the 3,700 abstracts published last year may be of permanent reference value in the future, an annual index has been reprinted from the March, 1955 issue of Wireless Engineer and is published as Part II of this issue of PROCEEDINGS. The index, which is separately bound, has been mailed together with the regular issue (Part I) to all IRE members and subscribers. Since the abstracts are reprinted in PROCEEDINGS one month after thev appear in Wireless Engineer, the index covers those abstracts which were published in the February, 1954 through January, 1955 issues of PROCEEDINGS."
"This paper was written to present the subject of magnetic amplifiers to those scientists and engineers who have not had an opportunity to observe the progress which has taken place in this field. No detailed technical discussions have been attempted and many aspects of magnetic amplifier operation and applications are only briefly mentioned. The basic operation, along with certain fundamental circuits which represent present and potential applications, are discussed with the view in mind of indicating to the reader the range and usefulness of magnetic amplifiers."
"This paper presents theoretical and experimental results concerning the \"M Carcinotron.\" In particular, the influence of space charge has been considered, thereby permitting an explanation for the measured values of starting current, the influence of the coupling impedance on efficiency and the existence of parasitic oscillations. The \"rising sun effect\" which should be present in these tubes, as it is in the magnetron, has been investigated theoretically and experimentally. The experimental results exhibit a decrease of efficiency in the predicted range of operation."
"This paper discusses power flow in devices in which electrons are constrained to move in the z direction only. Besides the electromagnetic power flow given by Poynting's vector, there is a kinetic power flow per unit area in the z direction. In a linear system equivalent to the electron beam at low levels of operation this power flow is PR = ---(- J0+J)(u02+2u0v). Here -J0 and J are the dc and instantaneous ac convection current densities and u0 and v are the dc and instantaneous ac velocities. The electromagnetic power must be calculated including all fields due to the presence of the beam. In the case of space-charge waves, the electromagnetic power flow adds to or subtracts from the kinetic power flow. If the electric field is purely longitudinal, H is zero, and the electromagnetic power flow is zero."
"The effect of heavily doped (alloyed) p-type and n-type surface layers on n-type base, and of metallic plating on n-type base, on the surface recombination velocity s has been computed on the basis of one-dimensional junction theory. The results indicate that s should be of the order 1 cm/sec for the heavily doped surfaces, and several thousand cm/sec for the electroplated surface. The low s comes about for the same reason that the injection efficiency of alloy junctions is high; the alloy junction is a very efficient emitter of minority carriers into the base and a poor acceptor of majority carriers from the base because of the high doping level in the alloyed region. Since recombination in the surface layer of minority carriers from the base requires both majority and minority carriers, the restriction of the flow of either reduces the surface recombination. However, measurements of s by diffusion and pulse methods on alloy junction surfaces indicate that their apparent recombination is almost the same as adjacent untreated surface, e.g., 300-500 cm/sec. It is shown that lateral current flow, due to minority carrier gradients parallel to the junction interface, and neglected in one-dimensional theory, gives rise to circulating currents which translate the minority carriers to the nearest high recombination surface. This hole translation property of the floating p-layer is used to explain the erroneously high lifetimes often observed by diffusion measurements on silicon and p-type germanium, and certain discrepancies in effective life measurement on completed transistors."
"Filter calculations become difficult when network elements consist of transmission-line sections, since transcendental equations are involved. It is the purpose of this paper to describe the application of familiar impedance methods and Smith chart techniques which simplify many of these calculations. A chart is developed by means of which the most important characteristics of a filter may be read directly from a conventional input impedance curve plotted on a Smith chart. The principles involved in these methods are equally valid for all lossless filters consisting of identical and symmetrical sections, but are particularly well-suited for use with transmission-line circuits."
"The noise figure of a traveling-wave amplifier has been derived as a function of circuit loss and space charge. The minimum-obtainable noise figure of the backward-wave amplifier is shown to be the same as the minimum-obtainable noise figure of the forward-wave amplifier, i.e., about 6 db. The noise figure of an ordinary backward-wave amplifier has been measured as a function of gain. The calculated noise figure checks well with the measured values."
"An investigation of induced grid noise in vacuum tubes has been made. It was found that the uncorrelated component of grid noise can be explained in terms of electrons elastically reflected from the plate of the tube. Experimental and theoretical justifications of this explanation are presented. The accuracy of methods for predicting grid noise from measurements of input admittance is affected because of a component of input admittance arising from reflected electrons. A table is included showing typical (measured) values of the induced grid noise of eleven modem receiving tubes."
"Hahn-Ramo theory is used to derive a characteristic wave equation for an electron stream whose single-valued velocity is a function of spatial co-ordinates. A means of solving this equation is found, for the particular case of two-dimensional Cartesian coordinates. A specific, but practical, linear velocity distribution is assumed. It is shown that for several types of boundary conditions, the only waves which can be set up in such a beam are purely propagational and not growing, bearing out the result derived by an approximate method by G. Kent. Numerical analysis for a cylindrical beam with potential depression was performed by a digital computer. As before, the results showed absence of any growing waves. In order to check early results of Haeff, which appeared to show the possibility of gain in single beam devices, an experiment was set up whereby a movable pickup cavity measured the amplitude of space-charge waves at a number of points along a drift tube. Outputs were compared at different drift lengths for pulsed and continuous operation. No evidence of growing waves was observed, verifying the analytical results. It was found, however, that operation of the collector electrode at very low potentials created secondary electrons which returned to the gun region, were reflected, and then they flowed back with the primary beam. This double-stream action produced electronic gains up to 30 db."
"Necessary and sufficient conditions that a real rational function be the transfer function of an RLC symmetric lattice are derived. The range of allowable values of the multiplicative factor (which determines the gain level) in the transfer function is determined and an algorithm for its calculation is given. While the zeros of the transfer function may be anywhere in the complex number plane, the poles must lie in the left-half plane or its boundary excluding the values 0 and ∞. However, at a pole of the transfer function on the pure imaginary axis, the function must satisfy certain further properties which are derived. In virtue of these latter conditions, it is found that there are realizable transfer functions which cannot be synthesized (even up to a multiplicative factor) by means of a symmetric lattice. These realizable transfer functions, which lie outside the symmetric lattice structure, always have some pure imaginary poles which do not satisfy our special conditions for lattice realizability. However, when all the conditions are met, a synthesis procedure for obtaining a corresponding lattice is given. The results are illustrated by an example."
"Methods have been discussed for obtaining a desirable frequency spectrum of the modes of an interdigital resonator, so that it may be possible to get useful operation in more than one mode. The consequences of phase reversal at certain locations in the anode, in the case of nonzero order modes, have been analyzed, together with the effects of phase-shifting fingers. Experimental results have been given, which are seen to be in substantial agreement with theory."
"The characteristics of junction devices are influenced to a considerable degree by the lifetime of the minority carriers. Accordingly, methods for the measurement of this quantity are of considerable importance. Methods have been described for the measurement of the lifetime of minority carriers when these carriers are produced within the volume of a semiconductor. When the minority carriers are introduced near the surface of a semiconductor the resulting effective lifetime may be determined to a large extent by the nature of the surface. For most junction devices, it is the effective lifetime that is of primary importance. This paper describes a simple method for the measurement of effective lifetimes of injected minority carriers. The measurements may be applied to practical junction structures as, for example, an alloyed junction transistor. Measurements may be made on either completed or partially completed devices. The resulting data are potentially of value as quality controls during the fabrication of transistors and similar devices. In many cases, the effective lifetime is a good indication of the surface conditions, and immediate evaluation of these conditions may be obtained at various stages of device processing. With selected geometries, the measurement method may be applied to determine absolute values of surface recombination velocities and should therefore be in studying surface conditions and treatments. The measurement method is described in terms of junction devices using germanium as the semiconductor. However, the method is equally applicable to junction devices made with other semiconductor materials."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following issues of Transactions have recently been published, and are available from the Institute of Radio Engineers: Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics, Vol. ANE-1, No. 4; Audio, Vol. AU-3, No. 2; Electronic Computers, Vol. EC-3, No. 1; Reliability and Quality Control PGQC-4; Telemetry and Remote Control, PGRTRC-2; Proceedings of the WESCON Computer Sessions. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given here."
"Compiled by the Radio Research Organization of the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, London, England, and Published by Arrangement with that Department and the Wireless Engineer, London, England. Abstracts arepresenting the following topics are given: Acoustics and Audio Frequencies; Antennas and Transmission Lines; Automatic Computers; Circuits and Circuit Elements; General Physics; Geophysical and Extraterrestrial Phenomena; Location and Aids to Navigation; Materials and Subsidiary Techniques; Mathematics; Measurements and Test Gear; Other Applications of Radio and Electronics; Propagation of Waves; Reception; Stations and Communication Systems; Subsidiary Apparatus; Television and Phototelegraphy; Transmission; Tubes and Thermionics; and Miscellaneous. The Index to the Abstracts and References published in the PROC. IRE. from February, 1954 through January, 1955 is published by the PROC. IRE, April, 1955, Part II. It is also published by Wireless Engineer and included in the March, 1955 issue of that journal. Included with the Index is a selected list of journals scanned for abstracting with publishers' addresses."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"A name followed bv \"and\" is that of the first author of a jointly written paper, while the word \"with\" indicates that the name indexed is that of the second author."
"Symbols used in this index: (A) Abstract, (B) Book Review, (C) Note of Correction, (D) Discussion."
"A selection of the journals which are regularly scanned for content of interest to our readers is given here, together with the addresses of publishers or editorial offices and the abbreviations of titles as used in the Abstracts and References. Applications for copies of any journal should be made to the addresses given. The full title of each journal is given first and is followed by the address, the abbreviated title being shown within parentheses. In a few cases the nature of a journal is indicated, where neither the title nor the address shows it clearly."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"This paper discusses some factors which have to be taken into account in the design of high power transistors. An effect of great importance is the reduction of emitter bias caused by transverse current flow in the base region. This effect is examined in some detail and the results of the discussion are applied to the design of improved transistor types. Finally, a short discussion of thermal stability and mechanical design is given."
"A scalar function of two independent variables can be visualized as an image. All mathematical operations can be conceived as a modification or processing of the original image. An important class of modifying operators can be realized by special scanning techniques without using a rapid access memory storage device. It was found that the two important operators so far explored may have practical importance. One is contour enhancement which has a \"deblurring\" effects akin to aperture correction and \"crispening\" in television practice; the other is contour outlining that produces a line drawing from a picture with continuous tones. The general concepts developed may also permit extension of the method to analog computers for certain classes of partial differential equations. The flexibility and adaptability of the system offer practical application whenever some predetermined operation is required on picture material."
"The synthesis of a large class of pulse-operated magnetic logic and switching circuits is developed from basic principles. Simple design methods, as well as circuit organization and logic, are treated in detail. Some new circuit types are presented along with innovations in notation and design procedure. However, material from other sources is included for the sake of completeness. A bibliography of related works is appended."
"The diurnal variation of the time of arrival of a 16-kilocycle signal traversing a transatlantic path has been found to be about 40 microseconds. This variation is presumably caused by a day-to-night change in the equivalent height of reflection of 10 to 12 kilometers, and appears to be very predictable. The great phase stability of very low frequency transmission permits intercontinental frequency comparison to a precision of at least 1 part in 1010. Variations of the frequency of the arriving signal are apparently always less than ±3 parts in 109; a figure to be compared with estimates of the order of ±2 parts in 107 for high-frequency transmission. With such stability of propagation, extremely narrow receiving bandwidths are attainable. These bandwidths, in turn, make possible highly reliable networking of frequencies for communication station allocation and for navigational purposes."
"A parallel-network oscillator is a two-path oscillator with the gains of the two paths varied symmetrically about a mean value by means of control voltages. The result is a wide-range, electrically tunable, low-level oscillator. Design fundamentals and considerations relating to different types of such oscillators are discussed and analyses made of the two principal types. The tuning ratio of one of the types is limited to about two-to-one and that of the other is limited to a frequency coverage rather than any specific tuning ratio -up to about half the gain-bandwidth product of the tubes employed. The amplitude of oscillations is relatively constant over the major portion of the tuning characteristics. Stability, waveform, and noise are also discussed. Two examples are given, one of which makes use of a single twin-triode tube without amplitude stabilization which covers a range of about 15 to 24 mc. The second example uses four pentodes and covers a range of about 15 to 43.5 mc. Finally, some of the future possibilities of parallel-network oscillators are mentioned."
"A simple oscillator suitable for use as a primary standard of frequency has been developed. Employing a new quartz crystal unit operating in the fifth overtone mode at 5 megacycles, this oscillator has exhibited a frequency stability better than 1 part per billion over periods of several hours; over extended periods the frequency drifts less than 10 parts per billion per month. The oscillator comprises a single stage Class A amplifier with a pi section feedback network; this circuit minimizes the influence of variations in electron tubes and circuit components. Class A operation is accomplished by amplified automatic amplitude control that also holds the crystal dissipation to less than a microwatt. A novel feature is use of a resistor in parallel with the crystal to suppress oscillation at the fundamental and unwanted overtone frequencies, without significantly affecting the frequency stability."
"The use of point-contact diodes in computer circuitry has shown that diode transient response is important in circuitry employing fast waveforms. Diodes which are pulsed in the back direction from a forward-conducting state may require microseconds to attain a specified back resistance. Transient response depends on circuit impedance and operating conditions, as well as on the diodes themselves. The present lack of ready extrapolation from one transient situation to another requires different tests and criteria for the determination of diode applicability to varying situations. The development and acceptance of a limited number of broadly applicable standard pulse tests is necessary."
"The necessary and sufficient conditions are given that a matrix with arbitrary complex number elements be the impedance, admittance or scattering matrix of a physical linear reciprocal or non-reciprocal network. A canonical form for non-reciprocal network synthesis is presented which applies to any linear n-terminal pair (n-port) system at any fixed frequency. If the network is passive the only circuit element required in addition to lossless inductors, capacitors, transformers and positive resistors is the gyrator. If the network is active, negative resistors and gyrators must be used in addition to conventional passive elements. Some discussion of matrixes with frequency variable elements is also given."
"This paper deals with parallel-T resistance-capacitance networks which, for a source of finite resistance and a resistance load, have transfer characteristics symmetrical with respect to the resonant frequency. It is shown that there exists a network with the minimum loss for a prescribed frequency discrimination. Formulas are presented for the design of such a network."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"This paper describes a pocket-size developmental AM broadcast receiver which utilizes eight junction transistors. Its performance is comparable to that of conventional personal receivers. Emphasis has been given to developments which contribute to stability with respect to temperature, battery voltage, and variations among transistors. The superheterodyne circuit employed uses a single-transistor frequency converter to perform the functions of both mixer and oscillator. Refined detector and automatic-gain-control circuits and an audio amplifier embodying further development of the principle of complementary symmetry are incorporated. Reduction in physical size and battery requirement, as compared to conventional receivers, is substantial. The circuits are described in detail and certain aspects of components and of physical arrangement, which contribute to the small size, are discussed. Detailed performance data are also included."
"This paper describes an experimental automobile broadcast receiver utilizing nine experimental junction transistors in a superheterodyne circuit. The receiver operates directly from the six-volt storage battery without vibrator, power transformer, or rectifier. The average current drain, including that for two pilot lights, is approximately one-tenth that of a conventional automobile receiver. The performance of this receiver is comparable to that of conventional automobile receivers. Particular emphasis has been placed on maintaining performance over a wide range of ambient temperature, both to accommodate the severe requirements specified for automobile service, and to establish the operability over such a temperature range of apparatus employing germanium transistors. The receiver circuits and performance characteristics, including performance data for the ambient temperature range -40 degrees C. to +80 degrees C., are described in detail. Techniques which render circuit operation insensitive to variation of ambient temperature and which permit interchangeability of transistors are discussed."
"In certain nonlinear systems, a form of frequency response has been observed in which the peak is bent over to the right or left depending on the type of nonlinearity. It will be shown that a similar response may be obtained in the RC phase-shift feedback circuit by inserting a nonlinear resistor, such as a thyrite, in the feedback loop. This circuit is discussed with emphasis on a graphical sinusoidal analysis of some general applicability which predicts its frequency response. An informative physical interpretation is also obtained from the analysis of the triple-valued region in the response and of the \"jump\" phenomena. The method is essentially a graphical superposition of the voltageresistance characteristic of the nonlinear resistor upon the voltage-resistance characteristics (with frequency as a parameter) of the circuit between the two points where the nonlinear resistor is intended to be placed. The points of intersection satisfy both sets of characteristics, and therefore yield the response of the circuit. The method is also applied to a series RLC circuit containing a nonlinear iron core inductor, for which current-inductance curves are super-imposed."
"The Pierce traveling-wave tube theory is modified to apply to the backward-wave oscillator. Theoretical dependence of both starting current and frequency upon space charge and circuit loss is calculated, as is the dependence of efficiency upon these parameters. Good experimental confirmation is obtained with two tubes, one of which was of adjustable length. Pushing, pulling, stability, frequency gaps, and spurious oscillations are described and explained. Lack of oscillation at low-voltage end of tuning range of some tubes is tentatively assigned to a velocity-distribution effect."
"A simple double-doppler device is described which makes it possible to determine the direction of motion in addition to measuring velocity. The same principle can be employed to measure distances, temperature, or small frequency differences. In addition an application of the device for moving-target indication is described."
"A crystal-controlled frequency standard having a frequency stability of a few parts in 1010 per day is described. The oscillator employs a 1-megacycle GT-cut crystal unit in a high-sensitivity bridge-balancing frequency-correction system. The crystal serves both as the resonant element for the oscilaltor and for a bridge whose unbalance is an indication of departure of the oscillator frequency from the crystal series resonance. The unbalance, greatly amplified, is used to AFC the oscillator."
"The paper describes a method by which the inflection-point-emission of an oxide-cathode tube may be indicated as a meter reading after subjecting the tube to a single triangular current pulse. The testing current rises from zero at a constant rate and the anode voltage is differentiated twice with respect to time. The time which elapses between the commencement of the test and the appearance of the first positive voltage from the second differentiator is indicated on a meter calibrated directly in inflection-point emission. The testing current is arrested at the inflection point. An experimental equipment is described which tests receiving-tubes for inflection-point emission using a rate of current rise of 4 amperes per millisecond. The duration of the test is of the order of one millisecond and the emission readings tend towards pulse emission values rather than dc emission values. Experiments are described which demonstrate the potential usefulness of the test for quality control in tube manufacture and for taking readings of emission while subjecting a tube to particular operating conditions."
"In the operation of high-voltage hydrogen thyratrons, the bombardment of the anode by high-energy electrons causes the production of X-rays. The X-ray output of three types of high-voltage hydrogen thyratrons has been studied to determine the generation of X-rays as a function of the operating parameters. The beam pattern and the energy and intensity of the emitted X-rays are included. It has been determined that emission occurs during the breakdown of the pulse and during the interpulse interval as a result of grid emission. The beam pattern is defined by the geometry of the tube and is a narrow beam emanating in a circle from the grid-anode region. Values for the X-ray energy and intensity and for protective shielding are given."
"This paper presents a theoretical analysis of the steady-state behavior of an ideal linear detector with a broadband output circuit. Published analyses of a diode feeding a load resistance R1 shunted by a capacitance C1 show that detection efficiency D to the carrier frequency is a function of the ratio of R1 to the reactance of C1, or of R1C1 to 1/f, at the frequency of the applied signal, as well as of the ratio of R1 to the diode conduction resistance Rd. The broadband detector circuit considered here extends the range, at low values of R1/Xc1, over which D is maintained practically constant for values of R1/Rd less than ten. This constant carrier detection efficiency characteristic is realized by inserting the proper size inductance in the detector output circuit. The solution of the steady-state behavior of the broadband detector circuit is obtained by the method of successive approximations. As a first approximation, carrier detection efficiency is calculated for the case of an assumed infinite inductance in the output circuit. To obtain a practical solution, a second approximation is made for the case of a finite inductance in the detector output circuit. This solution is compared with the solution obtained with the assumed infinite inductance to obtain a safe minimum inductance value for any broadband detector design. Calculated data are presented for four values of the ratio R1/Rd."
"The excitation of surface waves by a vertical, linear antenna erected on an infinite, flat, perfectly conducting image plane coated with a thin layer of dielectric is investigated theoretically. Helmholtz-type integral expressions, derived through the use of the results of a previous paper, are utilized in the computation of numerical data. The appendix is devoted to the development of an approximate current distribution for the antenna. The far-zone fields for the configuration are composed of two types of waves-the radiated wave, a wave of spherical type, and one or more surface waves, waves of cylindrical TM type which attenuate exponentially with height above the dielectric surface. The theoretical magnitudes of these two are combined to yield field patterns that show the large magnitude of the surface-wave component excited by the vertical antenna. The experimental approximation to the configuration consisted of a large ground plane enclosed by a microwave dark room. The experimental data, in addition to being presented so as to verify the theory, were replotted in a form that yields convenient design curves for surface wave antennas of this type. Additional measurements were taken over partially coated surfaces to aid in both the understanding of the phenomenon and its practical application to directive radiators."
"The study of coding for constant-data-rate systems begun in Part I is continued. A simple pulse model of such a system is introduced which is easier to visualize than the correlation detection scheme of Part I. The Wagner code is extended to two multipleerror-correcting schemes. The efficiency of the Wagner code is evaluated by comparing it with Shannon's ideal coding. It is shown that the Wagner code is just the minimum probability of error detector for parity-checked sequences of independent binary digits."
"The usefulness of exciting a single circularly-polarized mode in a microwave cavity is indicated. A matrix method is presented then for the analysis of the operation of various components, such as transition pieces and differential phase shifters on waves propagating in waveguides with two degenerate orthogonal modes. This method is applied to describe three distinct systems for generating the desired circular polarization in a cavity that is coupled directly to the side wall of a waveguide. The final system, which involves a minimum of critical adjustments, is described in more detail, and its performance is indicated. It is shown that purely circular radiation can be set up along the axis of the cavity. However, the largest preponderance of one rotating mode over the other which can be set up, if one averages over the entire cavity volume, is 11.5 to 1. This value is obtained with the TE11n modes."
"The finline coupler is a recently developed microwave circuit element with which it has been possible to assemble hybrid junctions, directional couplers, and polarization-selective couplers capable of operating over bandwidths of at least three to one in frequency. Constructional details and experimental results are given."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"The frequency aging of high-frequency crystal units is explained in terms of residual contamination, which may be a partial molecular layer. Experimental data are given on methods designed to reduce frequency aging to a minimum."
"The use of feedback amplifiers to provide impedance inversion is considered. If the proper types of feedback connections are used, and the input and output impedances of the amplifier and its gain are chosen suitably, the input impedance of the circuit will be approximately proportional to the reciprocal of the load impedance. The approximation may be improved by the insertion of negative impedance elements to compensate for the residual impedances in the inverter. When this is done, the circuit exhibits gyrator properties. Experimental verification of one of the circuits, using high quality stable amplifiers, gave a range of impedance inversion of two decades."
"A bridge is described which measures the small-signal parameters of point contact and junction transistors at a frequency of 1 kc. The impedance parameters of point-contact transistors are measured for the grounded-base connection, while a set of parameters representing a compromise between the impedance parameters and the h parameters is measured for junction transistors operating in either the grounded-base or grounded-emitter connections. This set includes the short-circuit input impedance h11, the short circuit current amplification factor h2l, a paralleled resistance r22 and capacitance C22 representing the open-circuit output impedance, and two feedback resistances r12 and r12' which in the particular case of the grounded-base connection represent the \"low-frequency\" base resistance rb and the \"high-frequency\" base resistance rb' respectively. It is also shown that the α cut-off frequency of junction transistors can be calculated with good accuracy from the bridge measurements."
"If a conductor cross section is any straight-sided polygon that can be circumscribed on a circle, it is found to have the same skin resistance as a conductor whose cross section is this circle. For example, a square wire has the same resistance as a round wire of the same radius, though the square perimeter is 4/π times as great. This \"polygon rule\" is derived from the \"incremental-inductance rule\" of the skin effect, published in 1942. It applies equally to inner or outer conductors, though the current distribution is very different. It applies to some unusual shapes that are difficult to compute by any other method."
"A short discussion of the advantages and disadvantages of active-error feedback in amplifier design is given. Such feedback can yield all the advantages of ordinary negative feedback without gain reduction and is particularly suitable for use in reducing the distortion of individual amplifier stages. Active-error feedback is applied to a cathode follower by amplifying the difference between its input and output voltages, then adding the amplified error to the output. The resulting driver has very low output impedance and low distortion and is especially useful for driving the grid of an output tube far positive. A direct-coupled version of the circuit using ordinary miniature tubes had an output impedance of 5.6 ohms and could supply several hundred milliamperes of positive current. The theory of the circuit agrees with experiment, and the distortion of the driver when driving an output tube grid to the diode line is found to be far less than that of an ordinary cathode-follower driver."
"The operation and design of a novel semiconductor multivibrator circuit is described. Consisting of one double-base diode, one diode, three resistors, and one capacitor, the diode multivibrator affords a circuit economy of two-to-one over the more conventional Eccles-Jordan configuration. The active element is the double-base diode, which is a three-terminal single-junction negative-resistance semiconductor device. Applications of the diode multivibrator to square-wave oscillators and delayed-pulse generators are illustrated. Control of the period of oscillation or variation of the pulse-delay time is accomplished by the variation of a single capacitor. Hence, this new circuit simplifies the design of astable, monostable or bistable multivibrators."
"The response pattern of an antenna is modified when the source subtends an appreciable angle. Under these conditions the observed or resultant pattern is a function of both the true antenna pattern and the source distribution. This problem is important in radio astronomy and in radar. The general problem is formulated and solved for the particular case of a radio telescope antenna consisting of a 40 wavelength broadside array. Graphs are presented showing the effect of sources of various widths on the observed patterns. Using such graphs it is possible to deduce the approximate source extent from an observed pattern. The direct analytical solution for the source distribution from the observed pattern is also considered and the limitations of the various methods are discussed."
"Junction transistors have been supposed to be too slow for many pulse applications. However, if they are used in a way in which their collector voltage is never permitted to become zero, saturation does not occur and the switching times achieved may be as low as several times the reciprocal of wo, the radian cut-off frequency of α. This time will be less than a microsecond for junction triodes presently available. Saturation is prevented through use of breakdown diodes which terminate switching transients by their breakdown. They may also serve other functions in the circuit. A binary counter described has stable points dependent upon the breakdown diodes and passive components, these points being virtually independent of the transistor or its temperature-sensitive Ic0. A class of two-transistor pulse circuits is described including a binary counter which with one kind of junction triode operates at 1.25 mc. Monostable and astable circuits of the same general nature are shown. The pulse requirements for switching of the binary counter are analyzed in some detail. It is shown that the switching charge is the significant quantity and that a crude estimate of the charge required is l/0 times the difference in conduction currents of the two transistors in the stable state."
"The current amplification, α, of a point contact transistor can be increased to values in excess of 20 by the addition of a third point contact which is biased so as to act as an emitter. The amount of increase in α can be adjusted by varying the second emitter current. A qualitative explanation of the α enhancement is discussed which involves an internal positive feedback action that varies the hole transport factor, ß, associated with the second emitter as the first emitter current is changed. The effect of varying the second emitter-to-collector spacing is discussed and experimental results are given."
"Transistors are nonunilateral amplifying devices. The most important effects of internal feedback are reflected immittances and potential instability of amplifiers in certain frequency ranges. These phenomena are undesirable in many applications. Considering the various matrix representations of a two-terminal pair one can show that by connecting appropriate networks in a suitable manner to the active nonunilateral element, the internal feedback of the latter can be removed (neutralized). Several neutralized transistor arrangements have been investigated experimentally. The circuits are based on an analysis of the properties of transistor feedback parameters at \"higher\" frequencies. Neutralization throughout relatively wide bands of frequencies can be achieved using simple feedback arrangements. The maximum available power gain of transistor amplifiers is only moderately affected by neutralization."
"The theoretical and experimental results of a study of the factors which determine the efficiency of backward-wave oscillators are described. The dependence of power output upon space charge, circuit loss, beam thickness, velocity spread, and circuit mismatches is determined by a combination of theoretical and empirical means. In addition, the effect of circuit mismatches upon the starting current and frequency is discussed. The study shows that efficiency can be increased by increasing either the gain parameter C or the space-charge parameter wq/w. Circuit loss, beam thickness, and velocity spread are found to decrease the efficiency. The use of the results reported here permits the designer to control the factors affecting the power output and predict the efficiency of a tube with reasonable accuracy before it is built."
"Previous work demonstrated the importance of surface recombination and junction shape on the transistor current amplification factor a by means of a two-dimensional conducting paper analog. This is now extended theoretically and experimentally to other cases which are also of practical importance. Exact analytical solutions have been obtained for the collector-to-base current amplification factor, acb, for plane-parallel (grown junction) transistors of rectangular and round cross section including surface and volume recombination. For the case in which the surface recombination velocity s is small and the volume lifetime T is large, these equations reduce to s T a0cb (_ j_ f+ L) VK Ir) where K and T are geometrical constants simply related to the base width W and the cross-sectional area. The range of validity of this equation has been investigated. For the more complex geometries usually found in alloy transistors, acb is found to be of the form: = Lc - L)-1 ± F(T, S)] (K T)[] where K and T are again geometrical constants. F(T, s) is a small positive correction term which goes to zero as s approaches zero and T approaches infinity. Although the constants K and T are not readily evaluated analytically, in most practical cases volume recombination can be neglected, and then By means of a three-dimensional electrolytic conductance analog, K and f(s) have been evaluated for various geometries typical of alloy junction transistors."
"The conditions of infinite directivity for transmissionline directional couplers are derived in a general and rigorous way. Exact expressions valid for any degree of coupling are found. The case of small coupling and the case of a matched primary line are considered as particular cases of this general analysis. In the case of small coupling, the condition Z11Z44 = 1 and Z22Z33 = 1 given by W. L. Firestone in a recent paper are found to be correct; it is shown also that these simple conditions do not apply anymore when the coupling becomes large."
"A circuit has been developed with which microwave oscillators may be phase-locked to weak but stable reference signals. The circuit was operated with S-band oscillators (707B klystron; 2C37 triode oscillator) and a 2K50 K-band klystron. It is possible to lock a microwave oscillator directly or through a cascade of such circuits to a quartz-stabilized oscillator. The statistical theory of random noise is used to obtain an analysis of the stabilizing effect of the circuit, and the power spectrum of the stabilized microwave source is calculated. The scheme can also be applied in divider operation. Modifications are discussed. A modified circuit that uses carrier-suppressed modulation of the reference signal has also been realized. In another circuit, the oscillator frequency is converted by means of a stable reference, and compared with a second reference that can be of low frequency and tunable. These latter circuits allow elimination of the excess noise introduced by crystal diodes. In the original straight dc circuit this noise cannot be eliminated, but calculation shows that its influence on the output power spectrum is very small."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"The luminance detail rendition, obtained from a color television signal in which the high-frequency components of the luminance signal are formed in the same way as the lows, is not correct in two respects: (1) The luminance transition amplitude is nearly always reproduced with incorrect amplitude, and (2) the transition is in a dark surround. This paper explains the cause of these two defects and derives an expression for a luminance signal which is free of these defects, and which may be transmitted within the present FCC standards."
"Double-tuned amplifier stages have a greater gain-bandwidth factor than single-tuned stages, and by stagger-tuning the double-tuned stages the gain-bandwidth factor is better preserved as stages are cascaded than if identical stages were used. This paper presents the results of a study which has yielded accurate design curves for the wide-band case permitting straightforward synthesis of maximally-flat.staggered pairs and triples. The theory leading to the design curves is described in the Appendix."
"A set of curves is presented which makes it relatively easy to design air-core transformers satisfying a majority of engineering needs. Inductances in the range 0.1 μh to 10 mh, coupling coefficients in the range 0.001 to 1.0, and inductance ratios up to 100:1 are covered directly. Certain arbitrary restrictions are placed upon the proportions in order to obtain a single set of charts, but the available electrical characteristics are not limited thereby. The proportions of the resulting coils are compatible with large values of Q, but this is seldom important because heavy damping must usually be provided by associated resistors. The derivation and use of the curves is explained."
"The electron transmission through the parallax masks of present-day tricolor tubes is about 12 per cent, thus placing a limit on picture brightness. This paper describes a new tube employing a parallax mask maintained at a potential much lower than that of the screen and a collector mesh maintained at anode potential intermediate to the screen and mask potentials; the brightness of the tube is increased 3-4 fold by virtue of enlarged mesh holes and the ensuing post-deflection focusing. In addition, secondary emission from the mask, which would dilute color, is minimized. In contrast to other post-accelerating tubes, the mask holes and fluorescent screen dots are uniformly spaced over the entire target area. Nineteen-inch round and twenty-four-inch rectangular tubes incorporating the new principle have been built."
"This paper discusses a modification of the shadow-mask three-gun color television tube. By applying an electron accelerating field between the mask and the fluorescent screen, the mask apertures act as individual electron lenses causing the individual electron beams to converge. This permits the apertures to be increased in area resulting in improved utilization of the electron beam current and reduced mask heating. The added voltage is applied after beam deflection and therefore increases the energy in the beam without requiring increased scanning power. Design formulas pertaining to lens effects at the mask and electron beam refraction effects between the mask and the fluorescent screen are given for both planar mask and curved mask designs. The effects of fluorescent screen bombardment by secondary electrons produced at the lens mask is described and means for suppressing these effects are discussed."
"Radio frequency coaxial resistors are usually fitted with an exponential jacket, whose design is based on an approximation by a cylindrical transmission line. This approach is not consistent with the actual field distribution in the termination. An approximation which is more appropriate is a conical line, leading to a tractorial jacket. An analysis of this profile is given. It is shown that in the tractorial termination the electric field fulfills the boundary conditions at both the surface of the jacket and the resistor, and that the remaining parts of the field lines are represented fairly well. This ensures a reliable prediction of the properties of the termination. The residual difference between the actual waveform and the assumed TEM wave is expressed by means of a distortion factor. In the design, the length/diameter ratio of the resistor is the most important parameter. The factors influencing its choice are discussed in detail. For terminations below 80 ohms a length/diameter ratio between 8 and 20 is satisfactory, higher impedances requiring greater ratios."
"The possibility of a saving of bandwidth- or of transmitting additional information in a given bandwidth-by means of amplitude quantizing and time sampling is reviewed. The requirements on a tube to simultaneously time sample and quantize a video input, and to produce a residue output, are outlined. Beam deflection-type tubes were successfully built and tested which perform all of these functions. They will change a continuous signal into a quantized signal having six discrete amplitude levels. The signal may also be simultaneously sampled as often as ten million times per second. A residue signal is also generated. The tube response is sufficiently accurate to meet the requirements of the system outlined. The stability of operation is such that after initial setup no critical operating conditions or adjustments are involved. Two types of output structure have been used, both of which permit the external adjustment of the output amplitude levels. The tube operates with an anode voltage of 300 volts. While the maximum operating beam current is only 55 microamperes, the signal-to-noise ratio of the tube is computed to be 55 db."
"The common types of tropical thunderstorms are described. A synthesis is made of the available information on the subject. Hence, the essential peculiarities and electrical parameters of typical lightning discharges are deduced. These are utilized to explain the radiation that appears as radio noise. An expression is deduced for the average electric field due to a stroke in a flash. This is used to evaluate the power at the source that should correspond to the noise field strength as measured by the noise meter previously described by the author. The noise power is found to vary as the inverse square of the frequency and the expression obtained for the noise power is expected to be valid in the frequency range of 1-20 mc. The theoretical results are compared with values obtained by experiment. There is close agreement between the two."
"It is shown by calculation of the field distribution in waveguides with TE waves in the presence of both the forward and the reflected waves that the voltage induced in a pure inductive probe depends on its angular position in the same manner that a probe in a slotted line depends on its axial position. Thus, a rotatable probe consisting of a wire loop and a compensating arrangement extending through an aperture into the waveguide can be used as a standing wave detector. An instrument for S-band waveguides utilizing this principle, its advantages and disadvantages and its error are further subjects of this paper."
"A matrix description of microwave amplifiers such as klystrons, traveling-wave tubes, and backward-wave amplifiers, in which an electron beam interacts with longitudinal RF fields, is developed. Certain relations between the matrix elements are derived as a consequence of the conservation of energy and these relations set a lower limit to the noise figure attainable with amplifiers of this class. It is shown that the minimum noise figure of any amplifier of this type with lossless RF structures is identical with that already found by several authors for the traveling-wave tube and is entirely determined by the noise parameters of the beam. These in turn depend only on conditions in the immediate neighborhood of the cathode. Special cases involving lossy structures are investigated and in each case the presence of loss is shown to increase the noise figure. The method is also applied to calculate the minimum noise figure of a double-stream amplifier."
"This paper deals with the formation of low-frequency rectangular pulses from a train of higher-frequency pulses, using a pulse-coincidence type of frequency-dividing chain. The developed pulse has leading and trailing edges bearing a precise time relationship to the leading edges of pulses of the original train, and a width equal to the period of an integral number of these pulses. A second low-frequency pulse, concurrent with the first, and having its leading and trailing edges displaced from those of the first pulse by the period of an integral number of the high-frequency pulses, may also be formed. The rise time and precision of timing of each edge of each developed pulse are of the same order as those of the leading edge of the high-frequency pulse. A 60 cycle wave in which these quantities are within 0.2 microsecond may be readily obtained. The method is described by reference to a specific application, that of the formation of the keying waves in a television synchronizing signal generator."
"A theoretical analysis of the detection of microwave energy in a thermionic diode is presented assuming a parabolic space-charge potential distribution and that the resultant field acting on the electron is the sum of the static and radio-frequency fields. It is shown that at microwave frequencies the space-charge-limited diode behaves as a velocity-modulated detector. This solution is a valid approximation for signal frequencies in excess of the electron plasma frequency at the potential minimum and for signal amplitudes less than 2V<sub>m</sub>/d s [1+(&#x003<9;<sup>2</sup>/&#x003B1;])]&#x000BD;. Here s is the diode spacing, &#x003C9; the potential minimum spacing, the angular frequency, V<sub>m</sub> the potential at the minimum and &#x003B1;<sup>2</sup>=2&#x003B5;V<sub>m</sub>/md<sup>2</sup>."
"In designing an amplifier with a bilateral device, unilateralization is one approach which permits use of techniques already developed for unilateral devices, in particular vacuum tubes. A general method for deriving a unilateral circuit based on an equivalent circuit of the device is described, emphasis being placed on junction transistors operating at high frequencies. The principle is: application of external feedback which neutralizes the internal feedback of the device so that the signals at the output end no longer yield a signal at the input end. In general, two types of circuits are used for junction-transistor high-frequency amplifiers: emitter input and base input connections. Measurements of the input characteristics of two singly-tuned amplifiers have verified their unilateral properties. Tolerances of the neutralizing network depend on such factors as: transistor parameter spread, impedance level of the collector circuit, and performance deviations which a designer will accept. Gain and input and output characteristics of the unilateralized high-frequency amplifier may be predicted easily from the transistor parameters (both emitter input and base input connection) in a frequency range below the alpha cutoff frequency."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Improvements in astronomical time measurement techniques and in the definition of time have kept pace with developments in frequency standards. Quartz crystal frequency standards are described, including Essen rings, bars, GT-cut plates, and contoured AT-cut plates. Stable oscillator circuits for quartz-crystal frequency standards are described, including the Meacham bridge-stabilized circuit, the Gouriet-Clapp circuit, and the Lea quartz-resonator-servo circuit. A discussion of the present status of atomic and molecular frequency standards includes the ammonia absorption cell, ammonia oscillator (MASER), and cesium atomic-beam apparatus. Instrumentation for precision frequency measurement is outlined, and a current listing of standard-frequency broadcast stations is included."
"The purpose of this paper is three-fold. First, the subject of maximum available power gain at high frequencies is discussed briefly. Also, maximum gain for a four-terminal network driven by a generator having a purely resistive internal impedance is calculated in terms of small-signal parameters of the network. Then a theoretical model of a junction transistor comprising the ideal one-dimensional model plus a base impedance, which may be complex and frequency-dependent as in the case of grown-junction transistors, is introduced for the network to obtain an expression for maximum available power gain in terms of fundamental device parameters. Experimental results, which are given for a number of grown-junction transistors, tend to confirm the theoretical expression. Finally, an idealized model of a grown-junction transistor is introduced, and theoretical power gain is calculated in terms of physical parameters. Such calculations show, for example, that 30 db of gain should be available at 5 mc and that such transistors should be capable of oscillating up to several hundred mc."
"A simple, easily built rf phase contour plotting device is described. This phase plotter differs from the conventional plotter in that two field-sampling probes are used instead of one. Instead of a fixed reference signal taken directly from the source, a phase reference is taken from the field itself. This technique offers several practical advantages over conventional methods."
"This paper describes a method of utilizing the voltage tuning characteristics of ferroelectric capacitors in a wide range, superheterodyne, dielectric-tuned, panoramic receiver. Continuous tuning over a 2:1 frequency band is obtained in frequency ranges up to 110 mc. Some of the problems encountered in this application are described, and a method of optimizing the parameters of specific materials is discussed. No detailed technical discussion is presented. The application of these capacitors to various types of circuitry is briefly indicated."
"The case is considered of a grounded cathode amplifier fed from a finite source impedance in which the requirements of minimum noise factor conflict with those of adequate bandwidth. Equalization, either by feedback or by the use of complementary networks, provides one means of dealing with this problem, and involves modification of some circuit parameters for minimum noise factor. Design criteria are developed for amplifiers based on this procedure, including equalization of both input and tube coupling circuits. Some measurements on an experimental amplifier are reported."
"Methods for electronically tuning microwave cavities using the principles of space-charge tuning and of spiral-beam electronic tuning in the presence of a low-pressure gas are described. The use of a low-pressure gas permits tuning over frequency ranges several times larger than those obtainable in vacuum. An S-band cavity was tuned over a frequency range from 3,280 to 4,350 mc, and from 3,280 to 2,540 mc, or ±30 per cent. An X-band cavity was tuned over a frequency range from 9,170 to 10,800 mc, or 18 per cent. These values are compared to measurements made in vacuum. A semi-quantitative theory for electronic tuning in gas atmospheres is presented. Limitations of the method are given."
"The resolution of two signals of known shapes F1(t) and F2(t) in white Gaussian noise is treated as a problem in statistical decision theory. The observer must decide which of the signals is present with a minimum probability of error. The optimum system for this decision is specified in terms of filters matched to the two signals, the outputs of which are compared. The error probability is exhibited as a function of the cross-correlation of the two signals and of the signal-to-noise ratio. If the phases of the two signals are unknown, as in radar, and if the signals are of equal strength and equal a priori probability, the optimum system consists of filters matched to each of the signals, each followed by a detector. The observer then bases his decision upon which of the detectors has the larger output. The probability of error is computed for this case also."
"Since transistor small signal parameters are functions of the dc emitter current (Ie) and of the dc collector voltage (Vc), gain control can be achieved by varying either Ie or Vc. The gain decreases with decreasing 1e or Vc. Using the series-parallel representation, the parameter most sensitive to Ie-variations is h11, whereas Vc-variations affect h12 and h22 considerably. In common emitter configuration changes of h21 are also important. A study of the dependance of the hii on the dc operating point explains the nature of gain variations with Ie and Vc. Satisfactory AGC circuits have been built using either Ie- or Vc-control. The control power required is very small if Ie or Vc are controlled indirectly by varying the base current. Since Ie or Vc are decreased considerably in the presence of strong input signals, the problem of distortion must be given serious consideration. Due to the variation of transistor driving point impedances, AGC may result in changes of the bandpass characteristic of tuned amplifiers. The gain of transistor converters and oscillator-converters can be controlled by conventional or special techniques."
"By a technique combining variational methods, contour integration, and the concept of analytic extension, two network theorems are derived which form the basis of a procedure for determining the physically realizable network characteristic which is the best compromise between conflicting requirements in the sense of least mean-square error or some other criterion of approximation selected by the designer and written into the variational problem. Both the specifications and the criterion for compromise may include functions which are given as curves versus frequency rather than explicit functions of frequency. The Wiener-Kolmogoroff theory of smoothing and prediction and the vestigial sideband filter with linear phase shift are included as illustrative application problems. For the former an alternative derivation in the frequency domain as well as a simpler procedure for numerical computations are given. For the latter a criterion for selecting the constant slope of the phase characteristic is derived in addition to providing the procedure for computing the optimum response filter."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists the chairmen of the various Professional groups along with their contact information."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides a listing by student branch, award recipient, and IRE section."
"Start of Index to Proceedings of the IRE, Volume 43, 1955 [title page]."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Numbers refer to the chronological list. Light-face type indicates papers, bold-face type indicates discussions and correspondence and italics refer to books and book reviews."
"The index contains an entry for all items that appeared during the year."
"In this index numbers refer to chronological list."
"This index covers all nontechnical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"A name followed by \"and\" is that of the first author of a jointly written paper, while the word \"with\" indicates that the name indexed is that of the second author."
"Symbols used in this index: (A) Abstract, (B) Book Review, (C) Note of Correction, (D) Discussion."
"In \"Abstracts and References\" throughout the year 1955 the following corrections are noted. Abstract No. 1257 In title for 'Zirconium' read 'Zirconia.'; Abstract No. 1289 for '631.395.625.3' read '621.395; 625.3.'; Abstract No. 1546 Change U.D.C. number to 621.- 396.11:551.510.535.; Abstract No. 2132 for 'J.R. Johnson' read 'J.B. Johnson.'; Abstract No. 2423 For 'R.N. Decker' read 'R.N. Dexter.'; Abstract No. 2496 Change U.D.C. number to 621.- 396.11 :551.510.535; Abstract No. 2749 Change U.D.C. number to 621.- 396.11:551.510.535; Abstract No. 2870 For 'L. Tourel' read 'L. Thourel.'; Abstract No. 2990 For 'R.H. Pohl' read 'R.G. Pohl.'"
"A selection of the journals which are regularly scanned for content of interest to our readers is given here, together with the addresses of publishers or editorial offices and the abbreviations of titles as used in the Abstracts and References. Applications for copies of any journal should be made to the addresses given. The full title of each journal is given first and is followed by the address, the abbreviated title being shown within parentheses. In a few cases the nature of a journal is indicated, where neither the title nor the address shows it clearly."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"This paper has the object of conveying the broad outlines of the problem of air traffic control and of the various solutions proposed. The problem is defined as the procedure of providing safe and expeditious flow of air traffic. Since aircraft are essentially constant speed devices, control is not possible by varying the speed of aircraft, but rather must be attained by preventing aircraft from flying into each other, under all weather conditions, without in any way impeding their progress to their destinations. The paper points out the roles played in air traffic control by the type of legal provisions governing flight; by the dispositions of airports around metropolitan centers; by the landing acceptance rate of airports; by the surface movement capacity of airports; and by the technical capabilities of instrument low approach and landing aids. Other factors considered are collision warning devices, approach and departure scheduling, and the whole concept of airways."
"The impending increase in magnitude and complexity of the air traffic control problem makes it necessary to consider a general formulation which would provide the basis for the analysis and evaluation of newly designed equipments or systems. Comparison of the qualities of pictorial and symbolic models leads to a direct analogy which permits aircraft motion to be considered as communication. Various aspects of the symbolic-communication model are then indicated. These include the application of the extended sampling theorem for airpath definition and the discrete probability distribution for establishing the minimum flight safety criterion as well as a measure for air path tracking efficiency in terms of successful mission accomplishment. The purpose of this paper is to stimulate the development of a general analytic technique which would act as a common language for both operations and laboratory personnel and, in this manner, aid in the future development of safe and efficient systems for Air Traffic Control."
"This paper describes a system plan for utilizing radar as a primary source of position information for the control of air traffic. Through the specific arrangements suggested, this information is integrated with certain additional flight control data so as to present the controller with a co-ordinated picture of the air traffic situation in his area. The composite picture for each control area or sector is presented by means of 2 two-dimensional displays which have one dimension in common and are co-ordinated through the use of a movable cursor. The resulting presentation is known as the Cursor-Coordinated Display. An air traffic control system performs three fundamental functions that are common to all control systems; namely, information processing, decision making, and effecting. Of these, only the decision-making function requires human intelligence. The efficiency of a manual air traffic control system is directly related to the proportionate amount of time the controller can devote to this paramount function of decision making. It is, therefore, a fundamental requirement that the system gather, process, and display the necessary information in the manner most useful to the controller in decision making. The Cursor-Coordinated Display accomplishes this through the application of certain fundamental human engineering and industrial design principles. The general plans and requirements of a system for controlling air traffic, together with its associated displays and equipments, are presented."
"Some of the effects upon air traffic of scheduling the aircraft and of controlling them en route are presented quantitatively in this report in the form of theoretical studies of four problems: (1) relations between the random en route deviations of aircraft from their schedules, and the resulting stack and total delays; (2) effectiveness of a single en route control point when (a) it reschedules the aircraft in an attempt to reduce terminal congestion; (b) it attempts to bring each plane back onto its original schedule; (3) congestion caused by relaxing the schedule; (4) effect of a sudden shutdown of the terminal. The limiting cases of random arrival and continuous control are discussed briefly, and some aspects of multipoint discrete en route control are treated. Numerical analysis, using IBM punched-card machines, is employed extensively in the first three problems. The fourth problem has been simplified enough so that purely analytic methods could be applied. It is presented merely for comparison purposes."
"This paper describes the characteristics of the new ATC Radar Beacon System. It discusses the operational problems caused by target overlaps, airborne antenna shadowing, secondary radar reflections, sidelobe interrogations and interference, together with some of the methods proposed for alleviating these difficulties. The paper points out specific applications of the beacon system, including its ability to extend radar coverage, to provide continuous target tracking through heavy clutter, to filter the controller's traffic display, and to provide identity for specific aircraft targets in the traffic situation."
"In a narrow sense, a definition of an Air Traffic Control study probably would be confined to procedures and equipments used solely for take-off, en route navigation, approach, landing and taxiing. In a broader sense, however, Air Traffic Control can be considered to include all means of increasing accuracy and the scope of application of any electronic device employed in aeronautical operation. The Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics (RTCA) is currently conducting nearly a dozen technical studies relating to one or the other of the above categories. The majority of RTCA's studies are performed by Special Committees. This presentation, therefore, comprises a summary statement of the current status of the activities of those Special Committees whose work relates either directly or indirectly to Air Traffic Control. Special Committee 54 (SC54) ``Operational Analysis of the Need for and Use of Course Line Computers and Pictorial Displays in Air Traffic Control'' Special Committee 56 (SC56) ``Implementation of the VHF Utilization Plan and Review of Transition Period Communication Requirements'' Special Committee 57 (SC57) ``High Altitude Grid Plan for VOR/DME Frequency Pairing'' Special Committee 62 (SC62) ``Re-evaluation of VOR Airways Lateral Separation Procedures'' Special Committee 63 (SC63) ``Helicopter Air Navigation, Communication and Traffic Control'' Special Committee 64 (SC64) ``Radar Safety Beacons'' Special Committee 69 (SC69) ``Remoting of Long Range Radar Displays'' Special Committee 70 (SC70) ``Altimetry.''"
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In order to develop the advantages gained by combining the automatic pilot and the flight director, this discussion is presented in three sections. First the present status of aircraft navigation and flight control instrumentation is presented along with recent developments such as the flight director. Then the trends in development of the automatic pilot are examined and the function of the human pilot in the automatically controlled aircraft is considered. Finally, the combined automatic pilot-flight director system is described and the advantages of such an arrangement are presented."
"The recent use of insulated aircraft wing or fin cap sections for radio antennas has required that consideration be given not only to the protection of radio equipment but to the protection of the insulated aircraft sections as well. Failure of simple spark gap protection used in early installations for aircraft radio equipment has been correlated to the occurrence of long duration lightning strokes, which, because of low current rates of rise, do not build up sufficient voltages across lead or tuning inductances to flash simple protective gaps. In order to provide protection against all types of lightning discharges, an aircraft lightning arrester utilizing a combination gap and series capacitor was proposed by LTRI, and has been developed in a number of commercially available types for various type installations discussed in the paper."
"The recent use of insulated aircraft wing or fin cap sections for radio antennas has required that consideration be given not only to the protection of radio equipment but to the protection of the insulated aircraft sections as well. Failure of simple spark gap protection used in early installations for aircraft radio equipment has been correlated to the occurrence of long duration lightning strokes, which, because of low current rates of rise, do not build up sufficient voltages across lead or tuning inductances to flash simple protective gaps. In order to provide protection against all types of lightning discharges, an aircraft lightning arrester utilizing a combination gap and series capacitor was proposed by LTRI, and has been developed in a number of commercially available types for various type installations discussed in the paper."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The convenience, ease of operation and inherent reasonableness of a direction finding system which culminates in a simple needle pointing to the selected radio station must make it seem to the late-comer that things were always thus in the plane's front office. Not so. Much anguish was experienced, many brains overtaxed, and considerable ingenuity exercised to place this apparently simple device in the hands of the pilot. It will be the purpose of this paper to give the history of the development of the Automatic Direction Finder, to give a condensed explanation of its mode of operation, and to describe its use in the navigation of aircraft."
"The convenience, ease of operation and inherent reasonableness of a direction finding system which culminates in a simple needle pointing to the selected radio station must make it seem to the late-comer that things were always thus in the plane's front office. Not so. Much anguish was experienced, many brains overtaxed, and considerable ingenuity exercised to place this apparently simple device in the hands of the pilot. It will be the purpose of this paper to give the history of the development of the Automatic Direction Finder, to give a condensed explanation of its mode of operation, and to describe its use in the navigation of aircraft."
"The use of high speed aircraft has accentuated the requirements for low drag antennas and has made the precipitation static problem much more severe. A radically new loop design using ferrite materials makes it possible to exceed the performance of the present external loop antenna in a submerged magnetic antenna that has zero drag. Among its important characteristics are lower weight, less mechanism, and rejection of precipitation static interference as well as reduction of the drag to zero. The antenna consists of a small ferrite-core goniometer with four radial collector bars of the same material. The design includes a novel quadrantal error compensating scheme in which the loop is compensated by attaching selected end pieces to the collector bars."
"The use of high speed aircraft has accentuated the requirements for low drag antennas and has made the precipitation static problem much more severe. A radically new loop design using ferrite materials makes it possible to exceed the performance of the present external loop antenna in a submerged magnetic antenna that has zero drag. Among its important characteristics are lower weight, less mechanism, and rejection of precipitation static interference as well as reduction of the drag to zero. The antenna consists of a small ferrite-core goniometer with four radial collector bars of the same material. The design includes a novel quadrantal error compensating scheme in which the loop is compensated by attaching selected end pieces to the collector bars."
"A theoretical investigation has been made of the behavior of low-frequency automatic direction finder systems in aircraft on courses near and over the radio station. This behavior is explained in the light of electromagnetic field theory and the equipment characteristics. An equation is derived for the locus of all points where the ADF indicator will start to reverse due to sense-antenna signal phase shift with respect to the loop-antenna signal as the station axis is approached and passed. The equation contains six geometrical and electrical variables. The locus thus defined is similar to a cone or paraboloid, apex down, with the apex located at the radio station in most cases. The equation predicts that for a phase advance of the loop signal, relative to the sense-antenna signal, of slightly more than the 90° value applied by the basic ideal receiver, the apex of the cone-like space figure locus rises off the ground, and that it would be possible to fly under this apex, producing but one reversal of ADF indicator needle with this single reversal starting exactly over the radio station. The altitude of this apex is a relatively simple function of the variables. The results of the flight tests verifying the theoretical findings are given together with some requisites for the use of the findings to eliminate the effects due to improper sense antenna location, provided the location error is not too extreme."
"This paper traces briefly the history of the development of the AD.7092 series of automatic radio direction finders and describes the special features of the AD.7092C which was designed to suit the requirements of North American operators. Novel features include an electrical remote control system and a tuned remote sense amplifier which permits the use of long feeders using small sense antennas. The suppressed loop antenna and method of error compensation are described and the trend of future ADF developments in Great Britain is indicated."
"This paper traces briefly the history of the development of the AD.7092 series of automatic radio direction finders and describes the special features of the AD.7092C which was designed to suit the requirements of North American operators. Novel features include an electrical remote control system and a tuned remote sense amplifier which permits the use of long feeders using small sense antennas. The suppressed loop antenna and method of error compensation are described and the trend of future ADF developments in Great Britain is indicated."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Two methods of placing high-energy electrons in a synchrotron on an internal target within one microsecond are proposed. One method uses the forced radial oscillations that occur at n = 0.75 in the presence of a first harmonic azimuthal variation in the magnetic field which gives rise to a Mathieu Equation. The effect of the first harmonic in general and at n = 0.75 is examined. The requirements for changing the radial field gradient to n = 0.75 are determined. An operating cycle is suggested. The second method proposes the application of a radiofrequency electric field resonant with the radial oscillation thus producing blowup in an unmodified magnetic field. The axial and radial oscillation frequencies are not commensurable, thus resonance blowup is avoided in the axial direction. The conditions to accomplish these are determined in general and specifically for the Berkeley synchrotron."
"Three classes of nuclear data handling problems are discussed, and three output devices are described. These include a card punching system for a neutron diffraction spectrometer, an electric typewriter system for a large counting room, and a proposed magnetic drum storage system for a time-of-flight analyzer."
"A procedure is described which electrically checks the entrance and exit tangents of an electrostatic analyzer. Audio frequency modulation of the direction of the incident beam is used to fill the aperture of the analyzer. Alignment adjustments may be made while observing signals delivered to oscilloscopes."
"Describes the above-named upcoming conference event. May include topics to be covered or calls for papers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The oscillations of a single winding have been extensively investigated, but actually the most important practical case, the oscillations of coupled windings, has received but scant attention. The wave shapes and natural frequencies are determined in this paper for two coupled windings of any turn ratio and with the same or opposite winding direction, in air or on an iron core. The integral equation and the equivalent circuit methods, previously developed for single windings, are extended to introduce the effect of the secondary on the primary, and then to investigate various winding combinations of turns ratio varying from 1 to 1 to 1 to 9. Good agreement is found between computed and measured values of the natural frequencies and wave shapes."
"This paper presents the results of calculations made to determine the magnitude of the error in measurements of changes in bus voltages resulting from the assumption of a symmetric-rotor synchronous machine as usually made in transient stability studies on the a-c network analyzer. It is found that in some cases the effect of transient rotor saliency is important. (See the Appendix for explanation of terms.) In such cases the curves of this paper may be used to help estimate the magnitude of the error involved."
"This bibliography is a continuation of similar bibliographies of relay literature which have been published previously and are contained in the following volumes of the AIEE Transactions: 1927-1939, vol. 60, 1941, 1435-47; 1940-1943, vol. 63, 1944, 705-709; 1944-1946, vol. 67, pt. I, 1948, 24-27; 1947-1949, vol. 70, pt. I, 1951, 247-250. The papers listed include those in the field of relaying, as well as in associated fields, published in this country. Included are articles covering relaying, as well as service restoration, testing, system stability, methods of calculation, instrument transformers and other auxiliary devices, which are available in Science Abstracts, Section B, and in other digesting or indexing periodicals, as well as in the original magazines listed."
"This paper provides selected information related to the operation and maintenance of steam turbine generators, as practiced on the Southern California Edison Company system. The methods outlined are the result of years of progressive development and necessarily reflect the predominant characteristics of the system which they serve. Certain of these characteristics will be outlined as the basis for a better understanding of the existing operating methods."
"In Part I of this paper, the 2-reaction theory of synchronous machinesl is used to derive the torque equation at any slip s of the unexcited synchronous motor with one equivalent damper-winding circuit in each axis. It is then shown that this synchronous motor torque equation reduces in the special case of uniform air gap and continuous damper to the torque equation of the induction motor as developed from its equivalent circuit.2 A paramount criterion for the correctness of any resistance or reactance equations derived for synchronous machines is their reducibility in the special case of uniform air gap and continuous damper to those commonly known for the squirrel-cage induction motor.2,3 Equations in terms of dimensions and physical constants are derived in this paper from basic theory of coupled circuits. Also it is shown that all of these equations reduce in the previously mentioned special case of uniform air gap and continuous damper to those universally given2,3 for the squirrel-cage induction motor. These equations are then inserted in the definitions of transient and subtransient reactances obtained by operational calculus methods.4 The nomenclature of this paper will be found in Appendix I. In a later paper, comparison will be made of calculated transient and subtransient reactances based on the equations given here with those given by test and reference,5 and the discrepancies will be discussed. Also, numerical samples of calculations of the different reactances will be given, using information based on the present paper."
"The use of synthetic resins and casting techniques for the embedment of electrical components is continually increasing in the United States and in Europe. This paper presents to the industry some results of approximately 3 years of work with epoxy resins and casting techniques at Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Company. Although the work to date has been confined primarily to a 600-volt insulation-class indoor-outdoor, dry, window type of current transformer, experience clearly indicates that the extension of the use of these techniques and materials to a higher voltage class and larger dry-type current transformer applications is not only desirable but feasible."
"The power industry has for years accepted certain general principles upon which temperature limits are based in the rating of electrical machines and apparatus. AIEE Standard No. 11 sets forth the philosophy to be followed in selecting the permissible total temperatures at various locations within machines, dependent upon the class of insulation employed. The particular values of allowable temperatures and the locations at which they shall be measured in cylindrical rotor machines are stated in the American Standards Association Standard (ASA) C50.2 Both of these standards established their recommendations many years ago, when turbine generators were all air-cooled machines and the industry's experience on the performance and life of such machines was a dominant factor in the selection of allowable temperatures. In 1937, when turbine generators began to be hydrogen-cooled, the allowable temperatures established for air-cooled machines and the temperature differences between the measurable temperatures and the hot-spot temperatures were tacitly assumed to be correct for the new type of cooling at a hydrogen pressure of 1/2 pound per square inch gauge (psig) in spite of a load increase which was realized with hydrogen cooling. With time, the practice of operating machines at hydrogen pressures higher than 1/2 psig has become quite general. Also for some years a number of machines have had their ratings based on capacities associated with increased hydrogen pressures, and there is no industry standard which recognizes the proper allowable measurable temperatures and temperature rises."
"The methods of analysis described provide a convenient way to calculate the voltage regulation characteristics of a transmission network as viewed from a single bulk load connected to the network. The methods apply equally well for single transmission lines and radial type of multiple circuit systems."
"Steady-state heat flow problems related to buried cables can be solved with a simple electric analogue. The soil is represented by graphite-coated paper, and the cables and sinks by fixed electrodes applied with silver paint or by movable copper cylinders. Regions with lower thermal resistivity (t/r) than the main soil body (duct banks, special backfill) are simulated by placing one or more extra sheets of graphite paper on the base paper in electric contact with it. Applications described include a duct bank problem and a double-circuit pipe-type cable placed in a rectangular box of sand. The load reduction caused by close spacing, the beneficial effect of sand backfill in poor soil, and the influence of ground water are discussed."
"A convenient method for the measurement of reactance and resistance of aluminum cables steel reinforced (ACSR) has been used and found to be accurate. The equipment and testing method are used to obtain accurate information concerning the a-c characteristics of all sizes of ACSR up to high values of current density, but the first use was to measure the impedance characteristics of expanded ACSR. Expanded ACSR, 1.60 inches diameter, 1,275,000 circular mils (CM), has been found to have a d-c resistance of 0.0717 ohm per mile at 25 degrees centigrade (C), a ratio of a-c to d-c resistance of about 1.015, and a reactance at 60 cycles per second (cps) at 1.0-foot spacing of 0.347 ohm per mile per conductor. This reactance value corresponds to a geometric mean radius of 0.690 inch, or 86.2 per cent of the nominal conductor radius. Expanded ACSR, 1.75 inches diameter, 1,414,000 CM, has been found to have a d-c resistance of 0.0660 ohm per mile at 25 C, a ratio of a-c to d-c resistance of about 1.015, and a reactance at 60 cps at 1.0-foot spacing of 0.337 ohm per mile per conductor. For this conductor, the reactance value corresponds to a geometric mean radius of 0.747 inch, or 85.4 per cent of the nominal conductor radius."
"The results of a study of stray load losses in the armature end iron of large turbine generators are presented. These losses are induced by the generator end leakage flux, and the resulting end iron temperatures limit the machine capability in the underexcited region of operation. Quantitative methods of analysis of the magnetic field distribution at the ends of the machine and the resulting losses and temperature rise are presented. Design innovations for reducing end iron losses and temperature in both conventional and direct-cooled generators are described. The results of factory and field tests supporting the principal conclusions are included."
"The significance of the usual temperature measurements made on d-c armatures is somewhat vague, and the amount of published data on the subject is limited. This paper presents the results of a large number of laboratory tests showing the correlation among several different methods used for measuring temperatures on d-c armatures. It is believed that temperature measurements made with embedded thermocouples, read through slip rings, greatly enhance the validity of the correlations reported in this paper. Based on the data presented, it is concluded that temperature measurements made by careful resistance methods are more reliable and more nearly approximate the hot-spot values, than those made by thermometers. In the interest of brevity the scope is limited to the measurement of temperatures on the armature of d-c machines."
"The Project Committee has undertaken to survey the industries on their experience with the effect of shock and vibration on relays, made field and laboratory tests, and prepared a series of conclusions based on the survey and tests. It has not attempted at this time to present a universal cure for the eliminating of the effect of shock and vibration."
"This paper deals with the shop work on Canadian Westinghouse water-wheel generators and with their installation at various hydroelectric stations. The mechanical aspects of such machines are important to the erection as well as in the production operations. The tolerances called for are remarkably close considering the size and weight of the components and the fact that large machines are erected on site. The remarks on design are confined to those concerning components."
"The electric power industry and the research it has done and is doing are reviewed briefly and areas of research which should be pursued more aggressively are discussed. The industry must provide the highest service reliability at the lowest cost consistent with sound practice. Any research that holds promise of fostering this objective should be carefully considered and encouraged either directly or indirectly."
"This paper covers the development of a 5,000,000-kva compressed air circuit breaker rated 69,000 volts with 2,000-ampere continuous current-carrying capacity. The breaker is completely metal-enclosed for outdoor installation. It has six condenser bushings extending through the roof for connection to the customer's bus structure and for mounting of current transformers and potential devices. Verification tests included interrupting demonstrations at 66, 44 and 22 kv, to prove the breaker capable of handling the high currents required for 5,000,000 kva. Additional interrupting tests, with varying rates of rise of the recovery voltage, were made to prove further the ability of the breaker to interrupt and to indicate the factor of safety built into the breaker."
"The continuing and rapid expansion of the 138-kv transmission system of the American Gas and Electric (AG&E) Company and of its superimposed 330-kv system in terms of installed capacity and interconnections has created a demand for 138-kv circuit breakers rated considerably in excess of 5,000 megavolt-amperes (mva). At key points of the system 10,000-mva breakers are being installed in large numbers, and existing breakers are relocated to positions remote from large concentrations of power. The new breakers were purchased on the strength of single-pole factory tests made at full voltage and reduced interrupting current, and at full current and reduced voltage up to the limit of available testing facilities. Though this kind of 2-part test is never a complete substitute for full-capacity tests, it was felt that satisfactory performance under field conditions could reasonably be predicted on the basis of such tests. Some of the 5,000-mva breakers recently installed are from a manufacturer who lacks facilities for factory testing. The field tests described in this paper were made to prove this breaker up to its full rating, and then to increase the short-circuit duty until the limit of either the breaker or the system was reached. The limitation proved to be the available system short-circuit capacity, which resulted in a maximum breaker duty of 6,900 mva. It is believed that this is the heaviest fault interruption ever made at the 138-kv breaker rating."
"Various configurations of single-circuit overhead lines without and with ground wires have been considered in a previous investigation of unbalance factors mo and m2.1 In this part of the study, electromagnetic unbalance has been calculated and balance factors plotted for single-circuit overhead transmission lines with horizontal conductor arrangement and two ground wires, so located in many different positions that the protective angle differs from the 30 degrees of the earlier analysis. Since many new lines have been built with a smaller protective angle, the arrangements covered in the investigation may become valuable for application considerations. All computations have been made on an International Business Machines card program calculator, and the basic procedure is given in the Appendix."
"This is one of several papers1-7 on problems associated with low-voltage secondary network cables. The data reported in this paper deal specifically with characteristic properties of such cables determined on an industry basis. These data are intended to be representative of insulations produced during the past decade, the emphasis being on nonmetallic-sheathed cables for low-voltage secondary network systems."
"This paper shows that the angular swings produced in a synchronous condenser by sudden application of an arc-furnace load do not in general increase the magnitude of the voltage dip produced. In addition, a criterion for stable operation of the condenser is given in terms of the system, buffer reactor, and arc-furnace transformer reactances."
"The objectives of this paper are twofold: first, to show the need for functional life-test procedures for distribution transformers, which will permit determination of the relative life expectancy of different designs on a given load cycle and of one design on various load cycles; and second, to propose test and analytical procedures which appear to fulfill this need."
"A review is given of previous attempts to solve the thermal equations for a filled fuse with single wire element lying along the axis of the cartridge. A new solution is then developed, which is based upon analysis applied by Grünbergl to high-voltage cables. This solution is used to calculate prearcing times, and is checked experimentally for four copper wires of different diameters and for one silver wire. For currents above about 1.4 times minimum fusing current, the error in the calculated prearcing time at a given current for all these wires does not exceed 25 per cent (%), and is generally much less, throughout the whole range. A comparison with other methods of predicting time/current characteristics shows the present solution to be superior. Minimum fusing currents for silver and copper wires can be calculated within about 5% of the true value. An allowance for the effect of oxidation of copper is given for this purpose. The prearcing time below which heat loss from the element is negligible can be calculated accurately, and is shown to be a function of element cross section. The effect of varying filler parameters on time/current characteristics is shown, and the thermal conductivity of quartz powder is discussed."
"A double-circuit 230-kv transmission line from the Garrison Dam power plant to Bismarck, N. Dak., and a singlecircuit 230-kv transmission line from Bismarck to Jamestown, N. Dak., were recently constructed by the Bureau of Reclamation as a part of the proposed ultimate system to transmit power from the Federal power plants on the Missouri River to wholesale customers in the Missouri River Basin. The lines are designed for National Electrical Safety Code heavy-loading conditions with additional vertical strength in the crossarms to support the conductors with 1½-inch radial thickness of ice. The conductors used on both circuits of the Garrison-Bismarck line are 795,000-circular-mil (CM) steel-reinforced aluminum cable (ACSR), 26 Al/7 st. The conductors on the Bismarck-Jamestown line are 954,000-CM ACSR, 54 Al/7 st. Two 1/2-inch high-strength-grade 7-wire class-A galvanized steel-strand overhead ground wires are used for the full length of each line. The design features of these transmission lines are typical of Bureau of Reclamation lines constructed since 1946."
"A new nontracking butyl insulation which will not carbonize even under severe surface contamination has been applied to 15,000-volt outdoor instrument current transformers, and makes practical still higher voltage outdoor butyl designs. The discovery of a novel principle 1 to overcome the susceptibility of organic materials to carbonization and tracking and the application of this principle to butyl rubber have enabled this major advance to be made."
"Using a 75-horsepower 4-pole 3-phase motor on which design and test data has previously been published,1 and without dividing the winding into segments smaller than its natural phase belts, it was determined that there are 10 possible different arrangements for half of the winding, each of which would be suitable for making the necessary connections to a part-winding starter composed of two line starters and a timing relay. To determine which of these arrangements would produce the more favorable characteristics of torque, line currents, and noise, tests were conducted on each and the results are presented. The winding pitch was then raised to a higher percentage than normally used and the effects of this variation on the test data and on some of the motor magnetomotive force waves are also given."
"The general problem of the design of a peak-power minimum-volume high-frequency alternator which employs the flux-switch principle is discussed. Included in this paper are analyses of general configuration, generated voltage and frequency, magnetic circuit, generator losses, and materials. A design procedure which employs the use of a set of empirically derived constants which determine various mechanical and electrical parameters is presented. The design charts can be used for flux-switch alternators ranging in power from 100 to 5,000 watts and for shaft speeds from 10,000 to 50,000 rpm. A sample design based on the use of the design charts is developed for a 50,000-rpm 3-kw 250-volt single-phase flux-switch alternator with permanent magnet excitation."
"This paper gives a general procedure for calculating in decibels the slot frequency sound pressure level produced by a polyphase induction motor operating at any arbitrary speed and load. To do this, it is necessary, first, to calculate the frequencies, pole numbers, and magnitudes of the important air-gap magnetic fields; second, to calculate from these the frequencies and magnitudes of those air-gap force waves with relatively few nodes that are most likely to produce noise; third, to calculate the stiffness and resonant frequencies of the core and frame structure for vibrations of low numbers of nodes; fourth, from all these, to calculate the radial deflections of the stator core and frame that are due to the significant slot frequency force waves; and, fifth, to calculate the decibel level of sound pressure at any point in space that is caused by the calculated deflection of the frame. After outlining the procedure required for these five steps in some detail, the paper gives the numerical results of calculations and the corresponding test sound levels for a particular 4-pole, 30-horsepower polyphase induction motor of open-frame construction. Calculations and tests were made for six operating conditions with different loads, voltages, and line frequencies. The calculated values for the six conditions were 86, 88, 91, 75, 62, and 82 decibels respectively, and the corresponding test values were 88, 90, 94, 74, 64, and 85, showing excellent agreement."
"Research on the dielectric strength of high-voltage cables can be very conveniently carried out on \"models\". Either plate or cylindrical capacitors can be used for this purpose. This paper reports the results of many tests both at power frequency and at impulse, which have the purpose of investigating the separate and combined influence of a series of different factors affecting the dielectric strength of a fully impregnated paper insulation as used in high-voltage cables. The main factors investigated are the following: Paper impermeability, Paper density, Paper thickness, Oil viscosity, Oil pressure, Electrode surface shape, Electrode surface nature, Butt-space thickness, Butt-space position with respect to electrodes. Butt-space relative position. The paper ends with a comparison of results obtained on models and on actual oil-filled cables, which show a good agreement if certain assumptions are taken into consideration."
"A unique control circuit for step voltage regulators is described. An auxiliary relay with four pairs of contacts has been eliminated; this results in reduced maintenance and quiet operation. Full integrating time delay is obtained by means of a motor-driven time-delay relay operated directly by the contacts of the voltage-regulating relay. Sparking on the voltage-regulating relay contacts is reduced to a minimum."
"The purpose of this report is to present an extensive bibliography on fault location methods. In compiling the bibliography, the search of the literature was carried back to 1940; however, a few articles published prior to 1940 were uncovered and these are listed, too. Included with most of the references are one or two statements giving the gist of the content of the paper or article. Brief summaries of the most common fault location methods are given in Tables I and II, which are intended chiefly as guides to the literature. They show some features of each method, some references to it in the bibliography approximate accuracy, and principal use."
"Part-winding or \"step-starting\" of polyphase induction motors for holding down the initial starting current inrush is on the increase. The conventional scheme provides two half-current starting contactors, each with three poles. The motors have dual-voltage 9-lead windings, arranged in two independent Y's, separately connected to the two contactors. The two contactors are closed in sequence with a few seconds' delay between, giving about 60 per cent (%) current on the first step. The delay must be very short, because the accelerating torque on half-winding is usually low, the motor may be noisy, and the rate of heating is high."
"The following discussion was received too late to be included with the papers. \"Low-Voltage Network Current Limiters\" [Discussions of papers 55-443, 55-444, 55-434 55-445, 55-473, 55-432, 55-474, and 55-441, published in Power Apparatus and Systems, October 1955, pages 913-44]."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under he primary entry in the Author Index."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Several authors have shown that a great deal may be learned about the operation of a crystal mixer merely by examining its dc voltage-current curve. This curve can yield such useful information as the optimum rf source resistance, minimum conversion loss, optimum mismatch, and the IF output resistance. In addition, if the crystal noise temperature ratio is measured, one can also supply information concerning the optimum intermediate frequency and minimum mixer - IF amplifier noise figure."
"In NTSC color television, a burst of reference carrier is transmitted at the end of each horizontal scanning line. The fundamental frequency component of this burst is being used in the color receiver to recover the chroma information of the transmitted signal in two synchronous detectors. The color subcarrier synchronization problem then consists of regenerating at the receiver the fundamental frequency component of the transmitted subcarrier burst accurately in frequency and phase."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Due to the dependence of transistor small signal parameters on the dc operating point, the gain of a transistor amplifier is function of the emitter current Ie and of the collector voltage Vc. An analysis of the variation of the series-parallel transistor parameters hij with the operating point shows that the gain decreases with decreasing Ie or decreasing Vc in the region of small values of Ie and Vc. The appreciable control power necessary to vary Ie or Vc (of possibly several amplifying stages) can be obtained advantageously by operating the controlled stages as dc amplifiers of the control signal and employing transistor detectors. Automatic gain control systems applicable to linear amplifiers and converters using Ie and Vc control have been developed, and their performance is described in this paper. Some problems arising in-transistor AGC systems are distortion, detuning and bandwidth variation."
"Following a brief discussion of the important aspects of television standards, those used by various countries are described. The history of the Australian standards is then outlined and specific aspects of these standards are dealt with in some detail. The effect of introducing colour television is considered. After summarizing the frequency channels available for Australian television services, standards of allocation of frequency and power are discussed. Finally some conclusions from tentative frequency allocation plans are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A junction transistor circuit capable of performing the color synchronization function of a color television receiving system is described. The circuit employs a single-junction transistor which serves as an oscillator-amplifier, phase detector, and current-controlled variable reactance in the generation of an accurately phased color reference carrier. A series mode quartz crystal filter in the feedback loop of the oscillator enables the circuit to perform well in the presence of noise interference up to a 1:1 signal-to-noise ratio."
"The advent of compatible color television has brought with it the need for several new types of test instruments to facilitate the adjustment of the specialized circuits required for generating, transmitting and receiving color television signals. This paper consists of descriptions of a selected group of test instruments which have been found particularly useful for routine operational tests in broadcasting plants and receiver service shops. Test generators which provide noise-free, artificial color signals are described, and techniques for using such signals for the adjustment of critical circuits in broadcast equipment and in home receivers are outlined briefly."
"Three principal methods of light amplification are described. These are (a) Electron optical image tubes. (b) Contiguous layers of photoconductor and electroluminescent phosphor. (c) Direct amplification of light in photoelectro-luminescent film. Details of construction and relative merits of each are presented."
"Factors important to the design of a low radiation uhf television tuner have been empirically studied within the framework of the open field measuring technique specified by the FCC. Although there is some question as to the reliability of the open field method some significant results have been obtained. In particular it has been established that the magnitude of radiation is dependent on basic tuner circuitry as well as shielding and by-passing, namely on the type of oscillator, crystal circuit, and number of preselectors. An existing commercial model which employed a balanced oscillator and two preselectors was developed until radiation was below the proposed FCC limit of 500 uv/m. These developments were then successfully applied to a recently designed small package model. It was not necessary to make any sacrifice of overall tuner performance."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper describes the use of current-controlled inductors in a signal-seeking broadcast receiver. The use of these inductors as tuning elements results in a receiver with no moving parts. Although the idea of an automatically self-tuning receiver goes back several decades, its practical realization has been made more promising through the recent improvement in saturable-core circuit elements for radio frequency use. The receiver described does not represent a finished design for manufacture, but does show some presently obtainable characteristics in this type of instrument and the problems encountered in such circuits."
"During the past two years, the American picture tube manufacturers have, through their RETMA and NEMA membership, studied the fundamental standardization of picture tube design in regard to maximum deflection angle, to effectively define 70° and 90° classes of tubes."
"This is a progress report on vhf-uhf radiation measurements by IRE Subcommittee 27.3. The function of this committee is to develop techniques for the measurement of radio interference generated by fm and TV receivers. This radio interference may cover the spectrum from 300 kc to 1000 mc."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A new beam power tetrode for operation at frequencies up to 1000 Mc is described. Although this type is specifically suited to meet the stringent requirements of television broadcast service, experience indicates its particular usefulness in generating higher powers at frequencies above approximately 200 Mc."
"A novel type of power amplifier, especially developed for high-power UHF monochrome and color television transmitters, is described in this paper. The amplifier applies the type-6448 beam-power tubes for class-B service up to 15-KW peak of sync output with an amplification factor of 15 at 6 megacycles band-width (.5 decibel points) and, for class-C service with a power amplification factor of 30. The amplifier design is applied in the RCA TTU-12A transmitter."
"The alternatives are described for achieving one megawatt Effective Radiated Power in the UHF-TV band. The new 0-E 45 KW and 23 KW transmitters are described. The different high power antenna approaches are discussed. Steps towards converting existing 1 KW and 0-E 12 KW stations are explained in detail."
"The part that the Bell System Operating Companies play in the television industry is to provide transmission service to the telecasting companies and their networks. This transmission service includes local transmission between television studios and either telecasting stations or the telephone companies TV operating centers, and long distance transmission between operating centers in widely separated cities."
"A UHF satellite installation is described. Average field strength improvements of nearly 23 db were obtained in a deep shadow area at Waterbury, Connecticut. 80 db of straight RF amplification was used in conjunction with high gain receiving and transmitting antennas on a frequency of 700 Mc/s."
"The object of this project was to examine the use of a booster to fill in the area inadequately covered by the primary station. A complete booster equipment including antennas and amplifier was installed and field tested at Vicksburg, Mississippi, 35 miles distant from the primary station WJTV, Channel 25, Jackson, Mississippi."
"There is a definite need for improving television service to small cities and towns which lie in the fringe areas or in ``holes'' of service areas of television stations. There are at present a great many such communities which receive little or no TV service. Because of their limited population and because of the economics involved, there probably will continue to be for a long time a great many such ``TV-poor'' communities unless some low-cost means of providing good service to them is developed and adopted into a national allocation plan."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"With a sectionalized tower high angle radiation can be minimized to give better ground wave performance than is possible with a simple vertical radiator. A study of theoretical conditions in conjunction with physical limitations reveals that it is necessary to maximize the current distribution on any given tower construction to obtain the maximum ground plane field intensity. Several sectionalized towers and a variety of current distributions on each tower are treated theoretically and tested experimentally. The results obtained are compared with the findings of several other writers treating similar problems."
"A method is described for loading a vertical broadcasting aerial for optimum operation at two different frequencies. The design construction and adjustment of a radiator of this type for the Australian National System is discussed in detail."
"A deflection yoke for an image-orthicon was built entirely from printed circuits and operated in a television camera. With the exception of resistance (which for the printed circuit model was much higher) the parameters of a conventional wire-wound yoke were quite readily reproduced, including inductances per coil of as much as 16 millihenries. The use of wider conductors, improved drafting techniques and allowances for undercutting will reduce the resistance to an acceptable value. Furthermore, reasonable care in etching should provide good yield from the printed material, correlation between calculated and measured values, and close tolerances on electrical characteristics. While the experimental work reported here was rather limited in scope, experience with printed coils in other sections of RCA indicate that tolerances of better than 1 per cent inductance and 10 per cent resistance can be realized."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Successful pattern and gain measurements can be made on large fixed antennas by the use of an airplane. Careful instrumentation and some training of the personnel involved are required. Accurate pattern shape data is more easily obtainable than direct gain measurements of comparable accuracy. Clear weather and good visibility are required except that low angle beams may sometimes be measured under an overcast. For high angle work, night tests provide the best visibility."
"This paper describes an automatic noise figure indicator having a range of 0 to about 40 db and a frequency range extending from tens to tens of thousands of megacycles. Gas-discharge noise generators are used as standard sources of noise power. To provide the large dynamic range, the noise generator is modulated, and a cross correlator is used to determine the magnitude of the modulation component in the output noise, The noise figure reading is presented on a direct reading meter with a tolerance that varies from about 0.2 db to about 1.0 db. Methods are given for correcting indicated noise figure readings for the effects of spurious pass bands, non-standard temperature, and non-standard noise generator power."
"Inaccuracies of insertion loss measurements caused by deviation of a square law detector from square law set a practical upper limit on the r.f. power which can be applied to a bolometer. The detection of the audio modulation after extraction from the carrier by a bolometer is limited by the behaviour of the second detector in the presence of noise and sets a lower limit. Since square law and synchronous detectors are superior to linear detectors at a low ``signal to noise ratio'', their behaviour is studied in more detail. It is shown that the bandwidth of the amplifier ahead of the second detector is not the controlling factor for the accuracy of the measurement. The concept of ``ratio of amplifier bandwidth to indicator bandwidth'' is introduced. Graphs are given for the indicator fluctuations as a function of this concept and of the ``signal to noise ratio'' at the amplifier output for both synchronous and square law detectors. A graph is furnished showing the range of insertion loss measurement as a function of the accuracy desired based upon the accuracy limitations at the high end low power end."
"Errors attributable to the detector probe are examined by correlating a group of error formulas which apply to the bulk of standing-wave measurements. Simple consistencies are observed which permit defining a general purpose Figure of Merit of the measuring system, which is inversely proportional to the measurement error. When developed analytically, the Figure of Merit shows the effects of the various system parameters. For comparing two given probes, a simpler formula is available, as well as a simple experimental method. Closely related specific Figures of Merit are also developed for more specialized measurements. The results are useful for predicting maximum measurement errors; for rating the merits of given probes; and for clarifying the general behavior of detector probes."
"This paper discusses theory and errors, when measuring radio frequency attenuation, using imperfect square law detectors. The audio modulation of a radio frequency source is detected by the resistance modulation of a bolometer producing an audio frequency voltage. For ideal square law detectors, the variation of the audio frequency level in decibels, using a constant current source, is twice the decibel change of the radio frequency level. A theoretical analysis of the error due to deviation from square law is given. Experimental data regarding this error based on the static characteristic and independent experimental data relying upon differential rf measuements are furnished and are in agreement with the theory. Applying this error analysis to typical barretters, accuracies of .01 db are feasible for a measurment of a 20 db loss. A simple test set which has been reduced to practice is discussed. It permits rf loss measurements of 30 db with an accuracy of .1 db."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The traditional method of checking acceptability of a lot of tubes for a particular electrical characteristic has been to test a large sample and count the number of tubes beyond the minimum or maximum limits - inspection by attributes. This reduces the chances of accepting a lot with a high percentage of defectives, but gives no assurance that the lot is centered close enough to bogey or that the spread of the distribution is tight enough. The increasing complexity of circuitry and the high standards of performance required in many types of equipment have increased the need for such assurance. It is gained most simply from inspection by variables. Simply adding variables inspection criteria to the minimum and maximum limits already on the TSS will not do an efficient job of separating good lots from bad. By proper co-ordination of the two types of inspection, attributes and variables, a high degree of discrimination can be achieved with a modest amount of testing. Examples are based on recent TSS for type JAN 5744WA."
"Cathode interface impedance has usually been treated as if it could be represented at any given time by a parallel R-C combination. In actuality, however, the impedance can be represented accurately only by an R-C network containing four elements. Moreover, the interface undergoes a reversible change of state with a relaxation time near one second as the cathode current is changed. These characteristics merit important consideration when specifications concerning cathode interface impedance are written. Modern methods of preventative maintenance frequently allow replacement of those tubes with cathode interface impedance before they can cause the failure of large electronic systems such as digital computers. However, serious cases of cathode interface impedance may cause the tube population of such a system to have a short average life, perhaps less than 10,000 hours. Under such conditions, catastrophic failures - primarily an affliction of young tubes - very likely will be more prevalent than would be the case if the average life were greater. Any increased level of catastrophic failures will cause a reduction system reliability which may be attributed indirectly to cathode interface impedance."
"The aim of this paper is to propose certain concepts and definitions as aids in studies of the reliability of various products. ``Reliability'' and other terms commonly used in such studies are so defined that they can be measured and expressed quantitatively; and the theoretical relationship of components to the system is discussed. Reliability is studied in terms of discrete variables and continuous variables and their combined effects, with consideration of the interdependence of components The concept of dependence is developed to facilitate measurement of the effectiveness with which components are incorporated into a system. The paper advances an alternate definition of ``satisfactory performance'' to the generally accepted one based on current specification practices. The new definition takes into account user acceptance or rejection of the product. Weighting functions are proposed to give mathematical expression to user opinion versus equipment performance characteristics."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"Industry needs more flexible methods of programming machine cycles to achieve automatic operation of machine tools in limited-quantity production. Part of this need is met by numerical control systems which command the machine in accordance with prepared numerical instructions read from a storage medium. Such numerical instruction can be stored in binary or decimal numerical form on punched telegraph tape, punched tabulating cards, magnetic tape, and many other data storage mediums. Numerical control systems are well adapted to control of machine tools such as lathes, turret punch presses and boring, drilling, and milling machines. The numerical control system for a Wiedemann turret punch press is a typical example illustrating the problems of joining controls and machines into a smoothly working combination."
"This amplifier as presently designed with the available type of deflecting meter can reliably, within the specifications, amplify direct input voltages and currents as small as 5 millivolts and 20 micro-amperes, respectively. It appears that the limitation on increasing the sensitivity is basically the increased effect of meter friction which in turn causes the unit to be more vibration and position sensitive. This amplification is linear, stable and free of drift. In addition, the mechanical nature of the amplifier limits the frequency of the input to a few cycles per second. Nevertheless, in the higher ranges, this unit offers a compact and simple amplifier which is continually stabilized by the electromechanical action of a deflecting meter movement. The capacity pick-up design of position, which adds only a small constant force to the delicate meter suspension, is extremely simple and appears to have infinite resolution. The only critical components are easily obtained stable resistors which are the only components pertinent to calibration. These resistors can be so modified in value as to permit any type of input range or combination thereof by means of a selector switch. For use with thermocouples the use of a very stable and compact mercury cell for cold-end compensation makes the unit independent of cold end temperature variations. The input circuit (depending upon the type of measurement) offers either a very high or very low impedance to the source, making the unit suitable for amplifying a wide variety of electrical phenomena."
"The attempt has been made to give a general picture of the field covered by x-ray equipment for industrial applications rather than to give detailed information about specific applications. The wide assortment of such applications calls for a wide variety of equipment designs and much specialized knowledge on the designers' part, not only of x-ray physics but of electrical and electronic apparatus and circuitry and of the particular industrial field for which the equipmnent is intended to be applied."
"After a brief summary of the theory of electronically produced pulses of light, energy storage systems, and energy converting devices, a review is made of commonly used triggering and controlling elements. A series of practical devices utilizing the previously described methods are discussed, showing typical stroboscopes, high-speed single-flash photographic lights, high-speed motion-picture lights, and flash sequence equipment."
"This paper has given a thumbnail sketch of today's use of various types of power rectifiers in industry. The picture is broad because it involves so many kinds of rectifiers and types of rectifier equipment, as well as varieties of application. It will be seen that the rectifying devices used for industrial rectifier units (mercury-arc rectifier tubes and semi-conductors) are similar to many of the devices used in electronics and communication, if not in size, at least in principle of operation. Thus the industrial engineer, the user of power rectifier equipment, and the radio engineer, today have a common interest in the science of electronics and electronic circuits. Electronics has provided the vital tool for the development of radio and telecommunication. It has provided for industry a tool which is often superior in performance, simpler in operation, and generally more attractive than other alternative ways of doing the-same job. The greatest strides forward will probably be made in the field of semi-conductors. Germanium may be expected to largely replace mechanical rectifiers and compete seriously with mercury-arc rectifiers up to voltages of about 500 direct current. Silicon metallic rectifiers will very likely prove to supplement but not replace germanium as a useful commercial product."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Resistance and capacitance of body tissues and blood are reported over a wide frequency range. It is shown that it cannot be assumed in impedance plethysmography that tissue and blood have comparative resistance values and that the capacitance is of negligible influence, if presently used 200 kc. frequency is considered. In order to obtain a stable ratio of blood and tissue impedance, frequency must be below 10 kc.; and in order to exclude capacitive currents, frequency should be near 1 kc. Electrode polarization phenomena and their effect on impedance measuring devices are discussed briefly. It is concluded that not only in two terminal impedance measuring devicess but also in four teminal devicesp as currently used in impedance plethysmography, polarization is disturbing if the frequency is substantially below 1 kc. Therefore, in this article, the conclusion is made that impedance plethysmography should be carried out with frequencies near 1 kc., instead of the currently used 200 kca A mathematical analysis whichrelates quantitatively observed relative resistance change and relative blood volume change concludes this article. This ratio is found near 3.5. It is substantially higher than assumed previously and suggested for experimental verification in order to elevate impedance plethysmography from a qualitative to a valuable quantitative tool for blood-volume research."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Requisite to landing an aircraft automatically is the perception of its altitude. This report attempts to resolve the theoretical accuracy of an aircraft's altitude by standard statistical equations for the propagation of error. Available aircraft trajectory data have been used to determine bandwidth of aircraft trajectories during approach and ``landing.'' Such data also have been incorporated to establish bandwidth of the noise superimposed by apparent radar target ``wander.'' A method of removing the noise by optimum filtering techniques is discussed. A means of retrieving the high frequency components of the aircraft trajectory information by inertial equipment is proposed. It is further proposed that similar smoothing techniques be utilized to remove low-frequency drift terms which appear as noise in the in ertial equipment. The two sources of information are subsequently recombined to obtain broadband trajectory coverage having a greatly improved signal-to-noise ratio."
"After more than two years' experience, it has been determined that airborne UHF communications is satisfactory. Many unforeseen types of interference have been found, some of them serious. Antenna patterns on aircraft are not ideal, but are usable. The newest subminiature airborne transceiver has undergone unique operational engineering tests. Results show that its design is highly desirable from the aspects of performance, installation and maintenance. Until the ultimate design of an equipment requiring no maintenance, industry should improve quality of components to increase reliability and reduce repairs."
"Efficient installation of airborne electronic equipment requires adequate data to design a heat removal system for the airplane. For many years aircraft generators have been supplied with rating charts to define their cooling requirements: electronic equipment now requires similar treatment. The form of the chart depends on the nature of the equipment, but consists, essentially, of a nomograph showing required cooling airflow and pressure drop vs air temperature. When pertinent, it should also include such factors as life, output, surrounding wall temperature, etc. Such charts make it convenient to design and compare performance of ram and fan driven cooling systems, and to compare different equipment designs in terms of their flow and pressure drop requirements. Examples of several different types of charts, their preparation and their use, are presented."
"The flexibility of the flight director to include practically any all-weather mission is accomplished by the coupling of the basic navigation data to the central flight director computer with special signal-shaping circuits designed on a modular basis. This paper describes the nature of these mission-coupling devices and an extension of their use to improve the basic flight panel information."
"This paper describes a statistical treatment of the errors encountered in the VHF Omni-Range Navigation System. The first part of the paper consists of a rudimentary discussion of statistical theory which serves to acquaint the reader with the methods used in the second portion of the report. Each of ten different errors are described in terms of a normal distribution function with the parameters x and s, the mean and standard deviation respectively. The ten errors are summed up and are compared to the error distribution which was obtained from error data gathered by the pilots of various scheduled airlines. The close agreement justifies the method used. Of the ten errors, only five are significant, and the VOR ground station error is shown to be greater than the sum of the other nine."
"The approximate effect of internal fluctuations and scanning on clutter attenuation in MTI radar is derived and the results presented on two charts. It is proposed that derivative antenna patterns be used to increase the clutter attenuation when scanning. The theoretical improvement from the use of derivatives is appreciable, as shown on the second chart."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"Existing large scale binary computers typically must allow for the maximum full length carry time in each addition. It has been shown that average carry sequences are significantly shorter than this maximum, on the average only five stages for a 40 digit addition. A method is described to realize the implied 8 to 1 time saving by deriving an actual ``carry completion'' signal. Experimental results verify this saving."
"An electro-optical binary storage device has been built which consists of a vacuum diode containing a photocathode and a phosphoranode. The device is capable of storing both optical and electrical information pulses. The present paper comprises a description of the behavior and construction of the prototype diode, an empirical derivation of a criterion for the conditions of stable feedback, and a numerical calculation for the case of two electrode pairs. Briefly mentioned are the possibility of high speed storage of digital information, the problem of self-triggering, the applicability of the criterion to solid state devices, and the analogous bistable behavior of a radio frequency triggered neon diode."
"Counter stages having three stable states, and using no more components than standard binary counters, have been built by properly using the already present nonlinearity of grid current. Problems of stability, cascading, and decoding have been worked out."
"This paper describes an analog to digital converter which converts voltage into a number which is proportional to the logarithm of the voltage. The device is completely automatic. It can handle input data at the rate of 10,000 voltage samples per second. The accuracy of conversion or quantization is determined by the designer's selection of the circuit parameters. The Radiation Laboratory quantizer has a maximum quantization error of 5 per cent. Samples of duration greater than .5 microsecond can be quantized."
"In this study, an investigation was made to discover methods of storing more bits on a Williams tube than can be stored by conventional methods. Read-around was ignored because the object was to explore the Williams tube as a secondary memory for non-random access operations. Proceeding on this basis, it was found that a four-fold increase in packing is possible with established techniques, and an even greater increase with other methods described in this paper. Such a memory is more versatile than a magnetic drum, as shown by the example of machine organization presented in this paper."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"A survey has been made of real-time electronic analog computer (differential analyzer) installations. This survey was conducted (1) so that a directory of the installations could be compiled and (2) so that various data regarding the installations could be made available for analysis. The survey was conducted by a mail questionnaire. Information was obtained regarding size of installation, size of staff, weekly usage of the equipment, age of installation, and availability to outside organizations from 96 installations havig a total of 8,320 computer amplifiers. The results of the survey have been analyzed and are presented in this paper, together with the directory."
"The requirements for a digital computer for use in an operational flight trainer are presented with emphasis being placed on the real-time aspects of the problem. The general purpose digital computer is shown to be inadequate for this purpose and a special purpose digital computer is described which meets the requirements."
"A diode muliplexer switch is described for time-sharing 64 analog voltages in a digital computer application. Apart from its relative simplicity and economy, the multiplexer characteristics of microsecond switching speeds, maximum settling time of 133 microseconds for a 10-volt operating range, and accuracies of better than 1 per cent full scale are confirmed both by theoretical equations and by experimental results."
"The properties of binary counters which utilize non-transient storage elements for the count information are presented. The four possible sets of logical connections between the two storage elements necessary for each stage are described. The binary numbers represented in the storage elements are shown to be the actual count in one set of elements and in the other set a Gray code representation of twice the actual count. Examples of bi-directional counters are given."
"The binary elements of a counter or ``scaler'' may be interconnected in many ways. This paper discusses a class of inter-connections in which some elements are ``forward-counting'' and some are ``reverse-counting.'' By changing the interconnections any arbitrary integral scaling ratio (up to the counter capacity) may be obtained."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"The nonreturn-to-zero method for the magnetic recording of binary information saturates the surface in a continuous fashion, one sense of saturation being used for a ``1'' and the opposite sense of saturation for a ``O.'' A system is described for reading NRZ digital data which utilizes the inherent alternating characteristic of the readback signal waveform to effect a logical correction. The reading system corrects the ``normal'' sources of error which limit the usable bit storage density and set the degree of reliability. The system employs only amplitude sensitive waveform operators and samples the readback signal only at the regular clock times."
"This paper describes a technique for the solution of trigonometric problems which utilizes a fixed carrier frequency, demodulators, modulators, resistors, condensers, and operational amplifiers in feedback configurations. Basic solutions are in the form of the amplitudes and phases of voltages relative to a reference carrier. A typical 400-cycle computer with an accuracy of 0.2 per cent is described in which output phases and amplitudes are expressed as the time delay between two pulses."
"This paper describes an electrical computer employing a modified Wheatstone bridge to compute the tangent of an angle between 0° and 90°, given the angle. It can also be used to compute one angle of a right triangle given the two sides of the triangle. It thus complements the Wheatstone bridge circuit which computes the hypotenuse from the other two sides. Only linear elements are used and the accuracy of the angular approximation can be theoretically better than one part in 70,000 and in a practical application, better than one part in 2,500. In addition to the development of the analog circuit, this paper briefly describes some of the design considerations which were employed to permit the analog to be used successfully in field equipment employing plug-in construction and yielding accuracies of better than 0.1 per cent."
"A discussion is given of the concepts of delay and distortion in feedback loops, with special reference to some of the special features incurred by digital control. Simple examples are given. Various approximations are presented for the ``starred'' transfer function in terms of the original analog transfer function, both in signal order to facilitate stability computations for digitally controlled loops, and also to illustrate the dependence of the properties of such loops on the analog and digital parameters."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"It is the intention of this section to review articles that have been published since January 1, 1953, and to publish eventually reviews of all books pertaining to the computer field. Authors can be of considerable assistance in this review process by sending two reprints of their articles to H. D. Huskey, Department of Electrical Engineering, University of California, Berkeley, California. The editors wish to express their gratitude to the reviewers who, through their efforts, make this section possible."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"The operation of the ElectroData digital computer, control console, input-output equipment, and power units is described. The chief logical components are described in detail and the characteristics of some circuits are given, with a description of logical operation. Basic design decisions are stated."
"Transistor circuitry is presented that enables the construction of a digital computer which will operate at a clock frequency of 200 kc or less. The circuitry employs readily available germanium or silicon junction transistors of the type used in audio-frequency circuit work. A new system of diode gating is also presented as a necessary part of the circuit philosophy. No vacuum tubes are required or used within the computer."
"This paper describes a device useful for the permanent storage of digital information which ordinarily is not to be altered once it is stored. The device utilizes a large magnetic-core matrix switch, of a type described by Rajchman, in conjunction with a storage system used with the Bell Computer, Model VI, to obtain permanent storage capacities up to about a million bits. The information is stored by suitably lacing a set of drive leads from the output of the magnetic switch through an array of magnetic cores. This device is characterized by low-access time, large-operating tolerances, and a relatively small number of magnetic cores."
"G.R. Partridge, author of the paper, \"A Transistorized Pulse Code Modulator,\" which appeared on pages 7-12 of the December, 1954 issue of the IRE Transactions on Electronic Computers, has called attention to the following omission. The quantizing system described in the first part of the paper was disclosed in United States Patent 2,612,550 (September, 1952) issued to G.T. Jacobi of the General Electric Company. The author regrets that this information was unknown to him."
"Several functional arrangements useful in conjunction with a parallel magnetic-drum memory are described with general reference to their application in an experimental telephone-switching system. The functions included are detection and registration of input information, counting, timing, transfer of information from one drum location to another, and translation of information from one form to another."
"In a certain operation a digital computer was used as an element of a control system to smooth consecutive observational data. The method of smoothing consisted of predicting from past smoothed values and then combining the prediction with the next observation. In this paper an analysis of the stability of this useful method is made, and an explicit formula of the range of the parameters for which the method is stable is derived. Also, the statistical variance of the smoothed variable is calculated."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The electronic computer field continues to expand at a rapid rate. New developments, applications, and publications are too numerous for one person to keep informed of all aspects. In this review a complete report will not be attempted, but some highlights and selected references will be reported."
"It is the intention of this section to review articles that have been published since January 1, 1953, and to publish eventually reviews of all books pertaining to the computer field. All articles and books reviewed are numbered sequentially for each year; where known the Universal Decimal Classification number is also given. The editors wish to express their gratitude to the reviewers who, through their efforts, make this section possible."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Radiation from a point source placed on the focal line of a parabolic cylinder is reflected in succession from this cylinder and from a second parabolic cylinder crossed so that its focal line coincides with the directrix of the first cylinder. The two reflections result in a parallel beam. The theory is applicable to both microwaves and light. The advantages of shipping the cylinders in the form of flat sheets and the possibilities of independent control of horizontal and vertical beamwidths and shapes are pointed out. Experimental models have been built and tested. "
"The enormously powerful radiation from lightning discharges has been used as a tool for the study of the ionosphere at very low frequencies. Previous workers have calculated the height of the ionosphere and the distance to the radiation source by application of the ray theory of multiple ionospheric reflections. Time measurements for use in the height and distance formulas were obtained by direct measurement of recorded oscillograms. Time resolution was limited and the calculations were extremely tedious. This paper describes a complete system which records the received atmospheric wave form and simultaneously derives a plot of the time intervals between peaks of the wave form vs time. The time-interval plot greatly facilitates data reduction by means of a simple curve-fitting technique. Accuracy of measurement of height and distance is limited chiefly by the validity of the multiple reflection theory and the assumption of a simple layer structure in the ionosphere. The time differences are measured more accurately than is ordinarily possible with direct measurement on the waveform. The system automatically derives frequency-time plots for whistling atmospherics and relates the whistler to preceding impulsive atmospherics. Consumption of photographic film is low. The system can be used to visually monitor tape-recorded atmospherics. "
"It is often desirable to tune electrically small antennas at their feed terminals. An \"L\" matching circuit for this purpose is considered. It is shown that one fixed element and one variable tuning element are adequate for certain small antennas. The manner in which losses affect the circuit effiiciency and the single-control tuning feature is discussed. Application of the technique to a tunable cavity antenna is noted. "
"It is well known that the phenomenon of radiation from line-source antennas is very similar to that of the diffraction of light from narrow apertures. Unlike the optical situation, however, antenna design technique permits the use of other-than-uniform distributions of field across the antenna aperture. Line source synthesis is the science of choosing this distribution function to give a radiation pattern with prescribed properties such as, for example, narrow angular width of the main lobe and low side lobes. In the present article the mathematical relationships involved in the radiation calculation are studied from the point of view of function theory. Some conclusions are drawn which outline the major aspects of synthesis technique very clearly. In particular, the problem of constructing a line source with an optimum compromise between beamwidth and side-lobe level (analogous to the Dolph - Tchebycheff problem in linear array theory) is considered. The ideal pattern is cos π √ {u /sup 2/ - A/sup 2/} , where u = (2a/λ) cos θ, a is the half-length of the source, and cosh π A is the side-lobe ratio. Because of theoretical limitations, this pattern cannot be obtained from a physically realizable antenna; nevertheless its ideal characteristics can be approached arbitrarily closely. The procedure for doing this is given in detail. "
"Input conductances of thin antennas are computed by evaluating separately input voltage and radiated power for a prescribed value of the current near the maximum. The current distribution required to evaluate the radiated power and the input voltage is obtained by solving Hallèn's equation for the prescribed value of the current. First and second order computations were carried out for full wave antennas, and the results compared with those obtained by others. "
"Approximations to the reflection coefficients of electron-ion clouds of various sizes, shapes, and densities are determined. A simplified approach to the problem is employed, wherein the total reflection from the low-density clouds is computed by Summing the scattered wavelets from the individual electrons, while the high-density clouds are treated as total reflectors at the critical density radius. Some of the limitations of this method are discussed. While more elaborate determinations should be used in certain regions of cloud size and density, the method used here provides an over-all, first-order approximation of the effects of size, shape, and density on the reflecting properties of electron-ion clouds. Several possible applications of the theoretical results are outlined."
"The method of synthesizing an equal-minor-lobe directivity pattern suggested by Riblet for the broadside array was applied recently by DuHamel to the case of the endfire array. In the present paper, an alternative synthesis procedure is described, based directly on Dolph's method of synthesis for the broadside array. Advantages of this alternative procedure include (a) applicability to arrays having even as well as odd numbers of elements, and (b) somewhat simpler equations for calculating relative currents for the elements of the array. This alternative procedure is described here in detail, together with numerical examples for the seven-element array used by DuHamel and for a four-element array. A tabulation of equations for relative current amplitudes for arrays of 5, 7, 9, 11, and 13 elements is given in an Appendix. In conclusion, an alternative method of overdesigning a supergain antenna is described."
"THE role of modern military aircraft is inexorably reflected in its electric system. The aircraft electric system must maintain its continuity to complete its mission. Beyond that, the utmost of reliability and continuity is required of the electric power system supplying “safety of flight” items such as the Gyro horizon instrument, the turn and bank instrument, the fuel quantity instrument, the engine instruments, and the fuel flow instruments. These instruments when inoperative can easily cause loss of an aircraft.1"
"SEVERAL years ago it became necessary to revise the primary distribution system in a large chemical plant. This plant was approximately 25 years old and had undergone a rapid expansion during this entire period. The type of electric distribution system which had developed is typical of many other large chemical plants which have expanded over comparable periods of time. The original plant electric system consisted of 2,300-volt generation and primary distribution. Load increases associated with later plant expansions resulted in the introduction of 11,000-volt generation and primary distribution and the installation of an 11,000-volt interconnection with the local public utility. Bus tie reactors had been installed to keep the generator bus fault levels down as additional power capacity was added to the system."
"THERE are a number of methods for calculating the response of a linear system to an arbitrary input which divide the input into a series of units so small that each can be approximated quite crudely, but they are all quite laborious and require a very high degree of accuracy of computation to achieve adequate accuracy in the calculated response. Even more important, they give very little insight into why the system responds the way it does, or how the system transfer function should be changed to improve the response."
"Undervoltage relays and starter solenoids respond to motor residual voltage. Test data are presented showing how such response can affect operation of an automatic transfer in a secondary selective system supplying induction motors. Suggestions are given for relay application."
"THE purpose of this paper is to extend the utility of certain synthesis techniques, which have proved useful in the design of continuous feedback systems, to the study of sampled-data systems. In recent publications,1,3,6 the z-transformation has been utilized to advantage in simplifying the analysis of sampled-data systems. However, several useful techniques applicable to the design of continuous-data systems have not been made available for the design of sampled-data systems. In this paper, by means of an extension of the concepts embodied in the z-transformation, the application to sampled-data systems of root-locus plots, asymptotic frequency plots, and Routh's criterion is shown to be feasible. Through the use of these techniques, a digital program giving the desired system compensation is readily synthesized."
"EVER-increasing street traffic congestion has directed renewed interest in rapid transit railroads as the most effective means for bringing large numbers of people swiftly across the broad expanse of modern urban areas. However, the staggering capital outlays required for this kind of facility demand that automation be applied to keep the price of service within range of the market. Fortunately, these same mechanical and electrical aids produce an improved control over the quality of the service offered."
"IN A contactor servo, the controlling elements determine only the instants of time at which the contactor operates. In between these moments the controlled system is left alone to follow its own equations of motion and is not in any way affected by the error and the time derivatives of the error. This is also true for continuous control systems with saturable elements in response to a large reference input. For optimum operation of a second-order system of this nature, Hopkin1 and McDonald2 showed that the switching criterion can be expressed as a nonlinear relationship between the error and its first time derivative. Their analyses were in terms of the phaseplane technique and the optimum switching boundary was shown to be a trajectory on the phase plane. Bogner and Kazda3 generalized the phase-plane criteria for second-order contactor servos1,2 to a phase-space criteria for higher order contactor servos. An implicit but basic assumption of their analysis is that in an n-order contactor servo the error and its derivatives up to the n-1 order are continuous at the moment of switching. What does this assumption imply physically?"
"ONE of the aims of the Joint Sections Committee on Air Circuit Breakers of the National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) is to propose standards of satisfactory performance for low-voltage (lv) air circuit breakers under short-circuit conditions. To determine the requirements for satisfactory circuit-breaker short-circuit performance, it is necessary to obtain information about the various short-circuit conditions that exist in electric power systems where the circuit breakers may be installed. Sponsored by the NEMA Joint Sections Committee, studies have been made to permit the maximum probable short-circuit duties to be determined at nearly any point in a wide range of low-voltage electric power systems. This paper gives the basic assumptions and procedures used in the calculations and presents the results as a series of curves that can be used to determine short-circuit duties in lv systems."
"CLEVELAND'S problems of transportation parallel, to some extent, those of her larger sister cities in the United States. The rapid growth of the population, the shift of population to suburbs, and the concentration of offices and trades in the downtown area made a new approach to the passenger transportation problem necessary. Early public transportation in Cleveland was almost entirely by surface street cars. This gradually was changed to a combination of street cars and buses, and finally led to a combination of trolley coaches and buses. In Cleveland there is now one single rapid transit line from the downtown section to Shaker Heights, operated by the City of Shaker Heights. It runs on its own right-of-way, using street cars equipped for multiple unit service. It is of more than national significance that Cleveland has recently inaugurated the first part of a rapid transit line which is designed to provide mass transportation, from east to west, parallel to Lake Erie. The part which is in operation now runs from E. 142nd Street, the Windermere Station in eastern Cleveland, to the Public Square in Cleveland."
"THE first 10,000-ampere 60-cycle mechanical rectifier installed in the United States has now completed 32 months of operation. Anticipated high conversion efficiency has been confirmed. The current supplied the isolated electrolytic load has been controlled well within the required limits. Contact life remains the major maintenance problem. However, recent developments in contact design have increased contact life and give promise of still further increase."
"This paper presents an extension and generalization of the phase-plane method to automatic control systems governed by high-order nonlinear differential equations. A unified procedure of analysis is outlined. It is based on linear transformations in the phase space, correlated with the partial-fraction expansion of transfer functions to separate natural frequencies, and makes use of the root-locus method for the qualitative study of closed-loop stability. The analysis leads to replacing a high-order system with a second-order system which closely approximates the former. Excellent insight is obtained into difficult problems. The method is applied to a study of control systems subject to saturation. Appendix II summarizes the current state of knowledge concerning second-order optimum saturating systems."
"BEFORE discussing the present state of investigation and proposed future considerations of cathodic protection circuitry, it may be profitable to review briefly the problems posed by the observed phenomena of corrosion, in particular the corrosion of metallic surfaces in soils and solutions with which this paper will be primarily concerned. Such a review should be helpful to investigators actively engaged in corrosion studies by emphasizing the actual corrosion problems under consideration as well as present methods of approach. Such a statement of the problem helps in clarifying and unifying much of the apparently disassociated work being done in the particular field and will provide a starting point for investigating corrosion phenomena. Most of the available literature pertaining to corrosion assumes that everyone is quite familiar with the subject and therefore needs no further introduction or explanation. Such an assumption, of course, can frequently be erroneous and, for this reason, it was felt that a brief review of this subject matter would be appropriate."
"THE chemical industry, because of its continuous processes, has always demanded reliable performance from its electrical power system. Observation of electrical practices will show that care has been exercised in the selection and application of electrical equipment. The scope of this paper is to review the influence which system neutral grounding has on the performance of electrical apparatus, something of the history of grounded and ungrounded systems and why they have been selected, and a discussion of the methods of system neutral grounding with suggestions on how the over-all performance of the power system and the connected equipment can be improved by the operation of some form of system neutral grounding."
"Recently developed speed-measuring and control systems automatically retard cars and guide them to classification tracks in modern gravity yards. Uncoupled from the train at the crest, “cuts” consisting of one car, or several coupled cars, having wide variations in rolling resistance select prior established routes and determine their own releasing speeds as they move by gravity to couple safely with other cars in the yard."
"AT THE close of World War II, the Long Island Rail Road Company purchased the electrical equipment at the Aluminum Reduction Plant at Maspeth, N. Y., from the War Assets Administration. Included in this equipment were several 3,000-kw 6-phase 60-cycle mercury arc rectifiers, complete with the component assemblies which the Long Island Rail Road Company proposed to utilize in the expansion and modernization of their railroad electrification facilities on Long Island."
"GENERAL ground rules relative to the design of a power system for a manufacturing operation have been accepted and applied throughout industry. Each application must, of course, be examined with respect to its individual requirements and considerations. This is exemplified in the development of the power system for the new plant of the General Electric Company at Bloomington, Ill."
"POTENTIAL uses of short-time memory devices in linear, closed-loop systems are shown, and the primary concern is with follower-type systems. In so far as possible the proposed AIEE symbols will be employed.1"
"A NEW field for the application of induction heating has developed. High-frequency heating of metal is already accepted as an indispensable tool of industry for surface heating and for through-heating small pieces. The steel industry is now turning its attention to lower frequencies for heating large sections to forging temperatures, approximately 2200 degrees Fahrenheit (F). The heating of steel for forming is a large part of steel manufacture. The methods used over the years have gone through an evolution. With the development of high-speed rolling and forming techniques, a need for faster heating methods has arisen. Low-frequency induction heating seems to provide a good answer to this need."
"FOR many years during the initial use of the carbon-pile regulator for control of aircraft generator systems, the adjustment of the regulator was considered to be extremely difficult. This is no longer true. Because of the instability of early regulator designs, there was no attempt to adjust the regulator at its theoretically optimum adjustment point. This was brought out in previous papers1―3 on the carbon-pile regulator which cover its construction, component characteristics, principles of operation, and adjustment. References to adjustment procedures have generally pointed out that the system would become unstable over a large portion of the adjustment range and that this region must be avoided. The result was that the instructions given for locating the stack screw adjustment point were by trial and error in the narrow region of stability. Fig. 1 shows the relation between the stable region of early regulator designs and the optimum adjustment point. At the time this was the only method but, in the design in Fig. 2, the instability during adjustment no longer exists because of the addition of a mechanical damping feature4 and an electric stabilizing circuit; see Fig. 3(A). With the stability problem solved, the adjustment procedure may be reconsidered. It is the purpose of this paper to show that the original adjustment procedure by the cut and try method can be replaced by a more direct method. It will be shown that the theoretically optimum adjustment point falls at a specific point on the adjustment curve. In accomplishing this, it will be pointed out that the electromagnet core position, also previously located by a trial and error method, may be correctly located during assembly when an armature calibration measurement is made."
"OF ALL rotating electric aircraft equipment, the inverter is probably one of the most difficult and most interesting items. A semi-independent power conversion unit, it presents a combination of design problems inherent to its components, together with additional ones, such as special vibration, ventilation, starting, and regulation problems. Some of the inherent problems are partially eased by its limited output such as, for instance, commutation; others, such as symmetry requirements, are aggravated. Thus, the inverter is a highly compacted motor generator set, regulated to very close limits, self-ventilated or, lately, mixed ventilated throughout a considerable range of altitudes and temperatures, vibrated with as high as 500 cycles per second (cps) equivalent to accelerations of 5 to 10 G's, and exposed to shocks, fungus, humidity, frequent starting, etc. In the following, an attempt will be made to outline the design problems, discuss possible cooling and regulation methods, and anticipate future lines of development."
"A method of storing positional data on magnetic tape has been devised and this method employed in a memory unit for a d-c positional servomechanism. A dual track tape and a time modulation encoding scheme are the distinguishing features of this method."
"RADIO-frequency (r-f) generators are used in various industrial processes such as soldering, hardening, forging, annealing, etc. The r-f portion of the generator is usually an oscillator comprising one or more large vacuum tubes, a tank circuit, and an inductive coupling or “work” coil. To utilize vacuum-tube capabilities most fully, high voltage is supplied to the tube plates through a rectifier incorporated in the generator. Since high-power vacuum tubes are used, the rectifier is a large one. The control of this rectifier is an important function of the generator, since it affects the power delivered to the load during a heating cycle and, hence, the quality of the product."
"ALL procurements and procurement specifications are made with an attempt to obtain equipments that are reliable. The present, classical method of attempting to achieve this is to require that the equipment operate satisfactorily when exposed to a level of environmental stress called for in the governing specification. Usually, these environmental conditions are applied singly, and all are not necessarily applied to any one equipment. While the successful fulfillment of these classical conditions may be necessary, it is not a sufficient condition for equipment reliability. A satisfactory plan for the development of reliable equipment must account for the following: 1. Appraisal of the intereffects of environments on stresses produced and on resultant failures. 2. Measurement of how close equipment strength is to environmental stress; i.e., whether the equipment would fail if the severity of the environment were increased slightly or whether failure would not occur until the severity of the environment were increased many times. 3. Normal variations in the strength of the equipment; i.e., there must be assurance that it was not a random chance that a particular equipment successfully withstood a specific environmental stress. 4. Appraisal of the effects of normal variations of the magnitude of environmental stresses in specific applications."
"This paper develops a unified method of transient analysis of second-order feedback control systems having nonlinear gain components and subjected to step or ramp inputs. Essentially, the technique is a decomposition of the phase plane into linear regions within which trajectories converge to corresponding critical points. Application of the method to several typical problems previously analyzed by other means shows that considerably more insight may be obtained."
"THE output voltage of a d-c generator contains an a-c component which is superimposed upon the d-c output of the generator. This voltage component, or voltage ripple, may be less than 1 per cent of the output voltage or may have peaks as high as 10 per cent of the d-c output, depending upon the design and condition of the generator. For many applications of d-c power the voltage ripple is of no consequence and may be neglected; however, there are other applications, such as some types of electronic equipment where d-c power of high purity is essential. In these cases the voltage ripple must be reduced to a low value either by design of the generator, filtering of the output, or both. Where the voltage ripple is to be reduced by filtering, it is desirable to know the magnitude and frequency of the various components that make up the voltage ripple. If the ripple is to be reduced by design of the generator, it is necessary to know the cause of each of the ripple-voltage components."
"Jitter in electromechanical instrument servos is studied analytically and by analogue-computer simulation. The study identifies some unreported causes of jitter, identifies the jitter-causing nonlinearities that can be eliminated, establishes relations between the unavoidable nonlinearities that will eliminate jitter, and expresses the effects of granular or quantizing elements mathematically and proves the validity of these equations. The principles are used to modify a commercial servo."
"FIFTY years of powered flight have brought changes to aircraft controls. A pilot cannot properly control the flight of today's powerful machines without the use of instruments. Many of the newer instruments and control devices embody electronic elements for sensitivity and speed of response. Some have servo-system operation for highest accuracy. One of the oldest instruments, the engine speed indicator,1 still has an important place on the aircraft instrument panel. Without electronic components or servo elements the simple dragmagnet - eddy-current disk type of tachometer instrument continues to provide a highly accurate and dependable service to the pilot."
"THERE is one important class of feedback control systems which until recently has received but limited attention. The systems in this class are known as sampled-data systems. The distinguishing feature of this class of systems is that at one or more points in the system, signal information has the form of a train of pulses."
"THE safe flight of an airplane depends upon good pilot visibility. Many methods of maintaining clear vision through transparent areas have been used by aircraft manufacturers and operators during the past 10 years, but the development of a transparent conductive film which can be applied to a glass surface promises to offer an ultimate solution to this problem. By means of the transparent conductive film, electric energy can be dissipated as heat close to the surface to be deiced. Excellent deicing characteristics result because of the efficient transfer of heat. Where cockpit space is limited, this system offers the advantage that no bulky controls or equipment are required."
"IN TORONTO, Canada, the last street car and trailer line on the Continent has been replaced by a modern subway system thoroughly integrated with surface transfer lines. Since cars, shops, and track were entirely new, all of the modern features and methods of other systems were studied and adopted where practical. The cars, as well as signals and part of the power supply, telephone system, and cables were purchased in the United Kindgom. Operation of the first few months has already justified the wisdom and courage of those who conceived, planned, and built the system."
"OVERVOLTAGES resulting from fault conditions in aircraft a-c electric systems being designed at present can cause extensive utilization equipment damage. Until such time as aircraft power generating and regulating equipment design results in reduced overvoltage possibilities, it is likely that an overvoltage control relay will be installed in many single-generator systems."
"THE steady-state behavior in regulated systems which become unbalanced has been treated in an earlier paper.1 The treatment there was concerned principally with fault-type unbalances, though general unbalance was considered and amplified with an example. A need was felt for an extension in the direction of further quantitative evaluation of the degree of unbalance in voltage experienced as a function of load impedance unbalance in typical synchronous systems. The fact that in smaller systems the infinite bus concept no longer is tenable also calls for a simultaneous consideration of generator and load in affecting the final net bus line voltages. The work described here is a step in that direction, taking up general unbalance in wye-wye neutral-connected systems with illustrations for typical load conditions."
"THE operating characteristics of feeder systems for the distribution of large polyphase currents at low voltage are usually given on the basis of performance when conducting balanced steady-state currents. Voltage drops and temperature rise are measured, and impedance calculated, from simple tests involving the passage of balanced polyphase currents through one or more sections of the feeder duct having a wye tie at the end of the last section. The results are averaged and used to describe the rating of the system."
"THE variety and extremes of environmental conditions to which electric equipment is subjected in military aircraft in connection with the stringent performance, weight, and space requirements make it mandatory that the environmental factors be properly considered in the application of this equipment. The major effect of the environment is that of cooling which has become a problem area in high-speed, high-altitude aircraft.1 ―3 For some time, the available information on cooling characteristics of electric machinery has been inadequate in its scope and was not sufficiently confirmed by tests.4 ―6 Adequate and correct rating data must be made available to the airframe designer for the purpose of applying the equipment in an efficient and reliable manner. In this paper, a rating and correlation method is described as applied to blast-cooled aircraft generators, but the method is not restricted to this equipment and is adaptable to any equipment which is cooled by forced convection with gases or liquids as the coolant."
"THE Diesel-electric locomotive has been made possible to a large extent by the electric system which so efficiently controls and transmits to the driving wheels and auxiliaries the concentrated horsepower of our modern Diesel engines. This electric system, consisting of generators, motors, switches, relays, meters, resistors, and thousands of feet of wire, depends primarily for its satisfactory operation on the various insulating materials which confine the electric currents to their proper circuits."
"THE output of electric apparatus is limited usually by maximum allowable temperatures. If electromagnetic and other design factors permit, the output can be increased by applying additional cooling. This increased cooling principle permits greater output per pound of electric apparatus and has been applied to aircraft generators for a number of years to increase electric system capacity and reduce installed weight."
"THERE is no question regarding the soundness of engineering employed during the design and construction of Diesel-electric locomotives, but many of the refinements follow as a result of the experiences gained by the various railroads operating them. This power plant on wheels was intended to out perform a steam locomotive and it will, but there was a day when it would not. The iron horse was little affected by the weather but many of the earlier Diesel-electric locomotives could not be operated successfully in such minor weather adversities as mist or fine snow."
"THE problem of choosing suitable electric systems for aircraft has been the subject of investigation and discussion for many years. To meet general or specialized requirements, the aircraft industry has had to choose between primary a-c and d-c systems. The magnitude of system voltage has been a variable. For the a-c system, a choice must be made between variable and constant frequency, and for the latter the selection of a nominal value and tolerances are required."
"THE measurement of impedance of power distribution circuits is a continuing problem as long as materials, installation methods, and ultimate use of such circuits are constantly undergoing changes. In contrast to transmission lines, power distribution circuits are relatively short and operate at utilization voltages. This simplifies the impedance measuring problem because the effects of capacitance and leakage are negligible at power frequencies. Consequently, the literature shows that the analysis of the problem has been thorough and measurement techniques have been painstaking; however, the measurements have usually been made at 60 cycles and, in the case of 3-phase measurements a neutral wire or earth return has been used. The 3-phase 4-wire electric systems rapidly being developed for aircraft in this country are operated at 400 cycles, and the neutral return is made through the aircraft structure, particularly the conducting aluminum skin. For increased physical reliability, the wire used in aircraft distribution circuits has a different construction than that commonly used in other applications. These differences are sufficient to hinder the use, even by extrapolation, of the results of much research on the general problem of wire impedance measurement."
"WHEEL slipping is a serious problem in Diesel-electric locomotives. At best, it results in loss of tractive effort which is the locomotive's only reason for existence. On the other hand, slipping can result in mild to extensive damage to traction motors, rails, and main generators. The Diesel-electric locomotive has an electric transmission capable of converting the constant horsepower output of a Diesel engine into a widely variable tractive effort-speed characteristic. This characteristic (within design limitations and ignoring relatively minor variables such as generator, motor and gear losses) is, theoretically, an equilateral hyperbola with the axes as asymptotes. There are practical limitations at both ends of the curve as to how much of the curve may be utilized, and both limits are important to this discussion. At the slow-speed high-tractive effort end, limits of rail adhesion are encountered, while at the high-speed low-tractive effort end the traction motors have an unfortunate tendency to come apart."
"EXCEPT in cases where pure undamped resonances occur, stable linear transmission or filter systems are characterized by bounded response to every bounded input. What is the maximum response amplitude that can be obtained in a linear, time-invariant system subjected to inputs having limited amplitudes? This question may be stated in another way. To what level must the input to a system be limited to insure that the output (or signal level at any given point in the system) does not exceed a given level? This question is of importance in many physical problems."
"Magnetic amplifier controls one d-c generator to drive a group of d-c motors to process wallboard and plasterboard. Co-ordination of belt speeds to a small fraction of 1 per-cent uses differential control synchro. Rotating knife synchronism is held by synchro-metering device."
"IT has been very adequately and accurately said by many people in the last few years that much more information is required concerning the thermal performance of rotating electric equipment in aircraft. At the same time, a need exists for new devices of improved thermal performance characteristics for many applications. These cover the whole range of aircraft applications from commercial aviation to high-performance missiles. It is the objective of this paper to discuss some of these problems. In particular, the topics are as follows: 1. Rating of air-cooled rotating electric machines. 2. Overtemperature indicators. 3. New developments in thermal design of aircraft generators Obviously, all of these cannot be covered in detail so most of the discussion will cover rating with brief coverage of the other two topics."
"THE use of jet and rocket engines in aircraft and guided missiles creates a significant noise problem. Disturbance caused by noise is not new to the aircraft industry. In general, the major problem has been, and still is, the effects of noise on human beings. Increasingly, however, the effect of noise fields on mechanical systems, in particular electronic equipment, is becoming important."
"TWO means of improving railroad operating efficiency are related to locomotive operation and performance. One is to obtain maximum locomotive utilization, and the other is to increase gross ton-miles per train-hour."
"DESPITE commendable efforts and admirable successes toward the development of aircraft circuit breakers, a wholly acceptable solution apparently has not yet been found; therefore, much can be gained from the observation of existing imperfections. In addition to new and original creations, considerable contributions toward improved circuit-breaker constructions can be had through the process of elimination applied to present shortcomings. It will aid in the examination of circuit-breaker capabilities to recognize the circumstances which prompted the earlier adoption of specific features which are now undesirable. Various reasons which may account for these conditions are: lack of earlier requirements, lax co-ordination among protection devices and circuit-equipment specifications, or excessive speed applied to the development of certain circuit breakers because of national emergencies."
"Equations are derived describing the variation of the gain constant and the time constant of a 2-phase servomotor as affected by the magnitude of the control field voltage. These parameters are evaluated from several simple measurements in the laboratory and are then verified by measuring the time constant experimentally. The use of these nonlinear characteristics in the analysis and design of feedback control systems is discussed."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"COMPLEX multiloop control systems may be synthesized by several different methods. The choice of synthesis procedure depends upon the configuration of the multiloop system. Fig. 1 shows a complex multiloop control system which has been reduced to several closed-loop within closed-loop systems. The synthesis of such a system can be performed by a straightforward application of the frequency response method."
"THE main purpose of this paper is to set out the details of a general theory enabling direct determination of the stability of linear lumped-parameter multiple-loop servomechanisms (and other feedback systems) which is broader in scope, more direct in application, more powerful in use, and yields greater insight to the physical functioning of both the system as an entity and its subloops than does presently available theory."
"ON APRIL 1, 1954, a 10-car train was placed in commuter service on the electrified lines of the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad, the first of 100 new multiple-unit cars. Modern in every respect, the outstanding feature is the use of ignitron rectifiers to convert alternating current collected from the trolley to direct current for operation of d-c traction motors. This is the first application in the world of this type of equipment in quantity. Its use follows naturally from the excellent results obtained with the ignitron rectifier type of motive power on a trial multiple-unit car in service on the Pennsylvania Railroad since 1949, followed by two locomotives which have been in operation on the same railroad since early 1952. These locomotives were nominally rated at 6,000 horsepower (hp), but have been operating at 8,400 hp each."
"In the classical single-loop feedback system, feedback acts not only to modify the influence of disturbances but also to determine the basic character of the input-output response. The inherently close association of these two effects has been a constant trial for designers and students since the inception of classical feedback, and has usually required that design requirements be compromised. Basically new configurations for feedback systems are introduced in which these effects of feedback are separated. In the new systems, feedback acts solely to reduce the influence of disturbances and thus to determine the response of the system to external loads and internal parameter variations. The character of the input-output response is independent of transmission around the feedback loop. The term \"conditional feedback\" has been introduced to distinguish the limited role that feedback plays in these new systems as compared with the classical system. Conditional feedback systems permit requirements on input-output response and on disturbance-output response to be met independently and offer a broad new range of performance characteristics for both linear and nonlinear systems in which there is substantial energy storage."
"This paper presents a method of designing feedback control systems which minimizes bandwidth for a specified transient error. Reduction of bandwidth is desired in order to attenuate noise, simplify the compensation, and ease the requirements on components operating at high power levels."
"HIGH-POWER rectifier locomotive design considerations center, first and foremost, around the traction motor. To compensate for the cost of the rectifier equipment, the d-c traction motor must be of a design that enjoys high production and consequent low cost. To be competitive in road performance with contemporary locomotives powered by modern 25-cycle a-c commutator motors, which have the inherent ability to deliver high power at high speeds, the motor selected for the rectifier locomotive must have comparable characteristics. The peak outputs required per motor for short periods on a passenger locomotive are around 1,500 horsepower. It is the ability to deliver power of this magnitude per axle that permits the modern straight electric locomotive to maintain the high-speed schedules that characterize electrified railroads along the Eastern seaboard. In high-speed passenger service it is desirable that the rectifier locomotive be able to duplicate or exceed the performance of present locomotives equipped with 25-cycle commutator motors."
"IN PAST years various attempts have been made to power locomotives by 25-cycle single-phase rectified voltage applied to d-c series motors. Early efforts were unsuccessful, mainly because of the faulty operation of the mercury-arc rectifier. Continued research and development, however, have now made the operation of d-c traction motors on mercury-arc rectifiers in locomotive service entirely feasible from a technical standpoint. In recent years, a new feature has been added. The development of the Diesel-electric locomotive has resulted in a standardized, low-cost d-c traction motor suitable for general-purpose road-locomotive applications. Hence, any present-day electric locomotive design employing d-c traction motors can benefit by the use of such standarized motors. An example of this is found in the rectifier locomotives recently built by the General Electric Company for the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad wherein the standard d-c traction motor shown in Fig. 1 was applied. The problem of operating these motors on rectified single-phase 25-cycle power resolved itself into the problem of smoothing the undulating current to a sufficient degree so that this motor would not be harmfully affected from either a stress or performance standpoint."
"THE usual d-c power supply for railway cars consists basically of a battery to which the car load is connected, a d-c generator, and a means of controlling the generator and connecting it to the load. During the last 15 years, a successful system has been established in the general range of 20 to 40 kw. The rotating equipment is a motor-generator set consisting of a d-c generator, a 3-phase 60-cycle 220-volt induction motor, and an armature reversing switch. While the car is in motion, this set is driven from a car axle through a drive unit and clutch. While the car is standing, the set is driven from wayside power through its induction motor."
"IN DECEMBER 1954, delivery was begun on an order of ten rectifier-type locomotives for the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad. These are high-speed passenger locomotives operating over the Railroad's electrified line between New York City and New Haven."
"THE SUCCESS of any product is often determined by its ability to give customer satisfaction when operated under a wide range of conditions. All too often, these conditions differ appreciably from the specification upon which performance guarantees are based. To assure product satisfaction, the ability to project correctly the knowledge of product behavior from known to unknown regions is essential."
"AS COMPLETE dieselization of the United States railroads approaches, the problem of replacing steam-powered rotary snowplows increases. Numerous designs have been tried in the past decade but thus far none has satisfactorily met all of the broad requirements. The electric drive here described features high reliability, over-all simplicity, standard interchangeable components, inherent stabilization, and adaptability."
"In this paper the load characteristics of 29 domestic electric space heating installations in Detroit during the 1952-1953 heating season are given. The theoretical undercapacity of most of these installations are pointed out as well as the ineffectiveness of using the measurement of kilowatt-hours (kw-hr) per degree day per 1,000 cubic feet of heated space when comparing different houses."
"THERE are many uses for aluminum in the lamp industry. For example, it is the reflecting coating on all lamps of the sealed beam type; it is used in some lamps as a powder for its beneficial effect on lamp performance, and in the manufacture of a heat-reflecting disk to reduce the base and socket temperatures in some lamp designs. But by far the largest amount of the material is employed in its newest use, the manufacture of bases. This paper is a discussion of data and tests on aluminum as it performs as a base-making material."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the title page of this issue of the periodical."
"The sinusoidal analysis of feedback control systems with one degree of freedom, involving backlash, is developed in the time instead of in the frequency domain, by application of the Kryloff-Bogoliuboff method.10 Some interesting relations among the parameters of the output response are found, and the conditions for the limit of stability are derived. An approximate method to take into account the harmonic content of the input is indicated."
"THROUGHOUT the last decade there has been an increasing trend to the employment of automatic sequence control systems in electrically powered pump stations on crude oil and products pipe lines. Not only has sequence control actuated by push buttons been widely employed for attended stations but also the use of sequence techniques has been greatly extended by the automatic operation of booster stations and by the remote operation of stations under supervisory control.1"
"THE perennial requirement of more pieces per hour from all presses in a modern metal stamping plant has created many problems. Obviously, every press must operate at a greater number of strokes per minute with correspondingly higher punch velocity. This situation is aggravated by variations in steel sheets both from a chemical analysis and thickness consideration."
"A STEEL grounding system has been installed at Fairless Works, the new plant of the U. S. Steel Corporation near Morrisville, Pa. The use of steel instead of copper for electrical grounding was adopted as part of a program to minimize underground corrosion. Since this is a departure from conventional practice, it is believed that the story of this particular installation will be of interest to many engineers."
"This paper analyzes the effect of the armature motion on the force stroke characteristics, the pickup speed, and the interruption performance of the cutout switch of a d-c electromagnet. The analysis of the interruption performance is made for a case where a capacitor is connected across the cutout switch. The same method can be extended to other cases."
"THIS paper deals essentially with two aspects of the a-c servo problem: 1. It introduces a method whereby the transient data transfer functions are derived directly from the d-e transfer functions. 2. It presents a method of taking into account the electrical transients in rotating components. These electrical transient effects are important to performance as well as stability in the upper data frequency range."
"MODERN traction motors operate under severe conditions. The latest adopted standard for traction motors lists them as class B.1 This provides that the peak value by resistance of the armature shall not exceed 160 degrees centigrade (C), and the peak value for the fields shall not exceed 170 C. Modern traction motors on heavy Diesel-electric locomotives often exceed these temperature limits by 20 to 30 C. The temperatures in the hottest part of the armature and the hottest part of the field will exceed these average resistance measurements. Coupled with these high temperatures are severe vibration conditions, dust, water, varying humidity, highly variable maintenance, and shock. Most traction-motor equipment operates on 3,000 volts or less on direct current, or 1,500 volts or less on alternating current. The railroads expect and get long motor life coupled with a very high degree of dependability."
"The effect of the location of the poles and zeros of the transfer function of a sampled-data system on the location and magnitude of the maxima and minima of transient response resulting from a step function input is studied. Theorems are given relating to the necessary conditions for the production of monotonic and non-monotonic time response expressed in terms of pole and zero locations in the z-plane. It is shown that, under certain conditions of pole and zero locations, the normalized time-sequence response may well be approximated by a single dominant time term. A method is presented of ascertaining from the pole and zero location whether these conditions exist. On the basis of dominant term approximation, the methods of synthesis applied to second-order systems can be generally extended to general systems. The results of this investigation are directly applicable to the design problems in the field of pulsed networks and sampled-data control systems."
"ALTHOUGH the metal germanium is not a recent discovery, the bulk of research and development on this material has been done in the recent past. So it can be said that the discovery of the important uses of germanium has been made during the past decade. Anything which promises a revolutionary change in the field of electronics immediately becomes front-page news because electronic equipment now plays such a vital part in our industrial development as well as in our private lives. Such wide publicity has resulted in many people using the terms in a conversational way without realizing the exact meaning or the wide range of possible applications."
"An extension is made to a method of evaluating the effect of the pole and zero locations on the unit step response of fixed, linear systems originally devised by Mulligan.1 This extension permits a rapid determination of the points at which the step response crosses the final value line for many systems. The first such point is the rise time from zero to the final value."
"An a-c crane-hoist controller for a wound-rotor induction motor and an eddy-current brake is described. The brake serves as an artificial load for the motor. Emphasis is placed on the desirability of using speed-responsive excitation for the brake to cause its torque to increase so rapidly with speed that flat speed-load characteristics are obtained. A magnetic amplifier responsive to a signal voltage taken from the secondary circuit of the motor is a simple and reliable means for controlling the brake excitation."
"THE methods of calculating the closed-loop frequency response (control ratio C/R) of a linear control system are well known and straightforward.1 To calculate the transient response to a step reference input, which in some cases may be more important, is more difficult. Of the various methods1‾4 for calculating this transient response, the Laplace transformation is perhaps the most rigorous and also the most laborious, especially if the control ratio C/R has numerous poles. Partly because of this difficulty, the frequency response has predominated over the transient response in analysis and design. There is need for a simple, fast method of calculating the step transient response, preferably from the frequency response."
"The system error in sampled-data feedback systems resulting from the application of a test function is an important design parameter. The “system error” is defined as the difference between the actual output of the system and the desired output. There are two components which contribute to this error: one, called “organic error,” is brought about by the system energy storages, and the other, called “ripple,” is brought about by the sampling process. Formulation of the system error is obtained by the application of the Laplace and z-transformations. Both the system error time function in intersampling times and the rms system error are formulated in terms of the system parameters. Illustrative examples demonstrate the theory."
"THIS paper treats a system consisting of two wound-rotor induction motors, with rotors paralleled through slip rings, the speed of which is controlled by a frequency changer connected to the slip rings. The system is a form of synchronous tie in which the driving motors and selsyns are incorporated in one machine. The block diagram in Fig. 1 gives a general picture of the system."
"THE object of this paper is to consider the proper conduction of electric currents to the earth resulting in adequate grounding, and also conduction of currents through the earth resulting in corrosion or the prevention of corrosion. The functional objectives in designing an electrical grounding system are to provide a low resistance path for the fault currents to ground, and to provide safety for personnel by limiting the potentials to safe values. This is normal grounding practice and underground corrosion has generally been neglected until a considerable amount of damage has occurred to the primary structure."
"RELAY servomechanisms in general show advantage over continuous servomechanisms with regard to cost, size, weight, and complexity. The application of relay servomechanisms, however, has been retarded by the meager understanding of obtainable operating characteristics and the lack of practical design methods."
"CALCULATIONS of the approximate variation with time of industrial power system short-circuit currents were made for a discussion of the circuit-breaker application procedure proposed in an AIEE paper.1 The results of the calculations indicate that induction motor loads produce contributions to short-circuit currents that do not decay rapidly in every case and perhaps should not be ignored even when present simplified application calculating procedures permit it.2 In this paper, the method used to determine the approximate short-circuit current time variation is described, and the behavior of induction motors which produce short-circuit current contributions that do not decay rapidly is discussed."
"SOME studies of underground corrosion associated with the grounding of multigrounded wye-connected distribution lines are described in this paper. Underground corrosion damage, mainly of anchor rods, has been experienced in enough locations to deserve special attention, but there seems to be very little electric utility experience to draw on in deciding what to do about it. The lack of information on this subject in the literature may be explained by reasons such as the following: 1. The widespread adoption of multigrounded wye-connected distribution lines is fairly recent, having occurred mostly in the last 15 to 20 years. Compared with delta-connected lines, multigrounded lines have a greater multiplicity of ground connections and therefore offer more possibilities for undesirable corrosion reactions. 2. Some of the most severe conditions causing underground corrosion are in areas where relatively little mileage of distribution line existed prior to 1935 or 1940. As a result, comparatively little experience in dealing with these conditions has been accumulated. 3. Judging from literature on this subject (or the lack of it), the electric utility industry has not given much attention to the effects of electrical grounding on underground corrosion."
"Curves are derived and presented which provide a ready means for approximating transfer functions with time constants up to three in number, and also dead time, from the experimental non-oscillatory transient response produced by a step change. The transfer function containing the time constants and dead time may be used to obtain the corresponding frequency response. These curves then are a graphical aid for converting transient response into frequency response."
"A method is presented for determining a valid mathematical description of a class of nonlinear servomechanisms from measurements of the servo response to a set of input signals. In the sense used here, a valid mathematical description means a description that predicts the response of the servomechanism to a given class of inputs with a desired degree of accuracy. The set of input signals may consist of either sinusoids or Gaussian random signals. The response of the servomechanism is measured as a function of the amplitude and frequency composition of the input. The types of servomechanisms treated are conventional, single-loop feedback systems having a zero energy-storage nonlinear element, which may be located anywhere in the forward part of the loop. The evaluation procedure determines the transfer functions of the linear elements on both sides of the nonlinear element and the response function of the nonlinear element. The characteristics of the nonlinear and linear element must be such that only a small amount of nonlinear distortion exists at the input to the nonlinear element."
"MANY industrial control, or servo, systems are characterized by their high power level, low cost, and moderate performance when compared with the high-performance servo systems that are used extensively in military applications. This paper describes the control portion of such an industrial type of servo system in some detail. Application of the control portion, or peak voltage detector, to a complete servo system is described briefly."
"The thermal stability of a new magnet wire known as Alkanex* wire has been evaluated as a component of heat-resistant motor insulation by four different test methods. Alkanex wire has been shown to possess approximately a 40 degrees centigrade (C) superiority in thermal stability as compared to Formex ® wire when used with suitable varnish systems. It is important to choose varnish and solvent systems which are compatible with the wire enamel. It is concluded by test that Alkanex wire can be used in equipment operating at class B temperature and that use need not await confirmation by long service trials."
"TICKETFAX is a special-purpose facsimile equipment developed by the Western Union Telegraph Company and used primarily for the reproduction of the intelligence from a specific size of copy. It is used by the Pennsylvania Railroad in Philadelphia and the New York Central at Cleveland to facilitate the handling of Pullman space accommodations."
"A NUMBER of bistable configurations are known which use vacuum tubes and transistors. Each of these requires two active elements and has two stable states. Binary coded decimal counters having ten stable states and using eight active elements, can be made with these devices. Point contact transistors, tetrodes and gas tubes (by virtue of internal positive feedback) exhibit bistability with a single active element. A scale of ten counters can be made with these devices with the use of four active elements. In general, either the speed of response of the reliability is inferior to that obtainable with counters using two active elements per trigger. This paper will consider a method of multistable operation which requires only two active elements, theoretically, for any number of statically stable states. These stable states are achieved by using two active elements in a conventional trigger arrangement. The feedback in the circuit is controlled by a nonlinear load which determines whether the net positive feedback makes the circuit stable or unstable. Thus it is possible to divide the operating range of the trigger into a number of alternately stable and unstable regions."
"INSTALLATION of the present interisland' radio network1,2 of the Hawaiian Telephone Company required consideration of many equipment and transmission engineering problems. Because of the unique geographical configuration of the area served, a great deal of preliminary investigation was needed to select operating frequencies which were both available and suitable for use from a transmission standpoint. Various types of radio equipment were then considered to determine which could best provide the needed facilities. Selection of sites and installation of radio equipment also posed a number of specific problems. With the exception of 900-megacycle (mc) links terminated at the exchange buildings in Honolulu and Wailuku, all of the radio terminals are remote from the connected exchanges; the multiplexed channels are extended over cable at Honolulu, Kauai, and Lanai, and over open-wire lines on the islands of Hawaii and Molokai."
"NEW equipment for the 4-step expansion and modernization program of the Hawaiian Telephone Company was procured, installed, and placed in service over a 3-year period.1,2 Standard commercially available radio and channelizing equipment was used for all of the new interisland circuits with, in some cases, minor modifications made to meet the operating requirements of the company. Fig. 1 of reference 1 shows the details of the installations. To achieve the highest possible degree of reliability, all but two individual radio links are equipped with stand-by radio transmitters and receivers. Fully automatic arrangements are provided to transfer from the regular to the stand-by equipment. In addition, stand-by engine generators will automatically start and assume the station load at all interisland radio station sites as well as carrier terminal locations. Centralized control and supervision from Honolulu of equipment located at remote radio sites has been achieved through a new type of control and supervision system originally engineered for the interisland network. This system is of particular interest because of its flexibility in application and because of the manner in which it provides for control and supervision of a large number of functions with relatively simple equipment and circuit arrangements, and with a minimum number of transmitted tones. Control and supervision systems are already in service on the Maui and Hawaii circuits. Additional equipment is presently being installed to replace existing supervisory control equipment on the Lanai and Molokai circuits. Future plans include equipping the two circuits to Kauai with a control and supervision system to replace equipment now in use."
"In an improved system for the control of reserved Pullman accommodations, the car diagram has been replaced by a set of coupons, each representing a unit of space in the car. Breaking up the car diagram into its component parts represented by separate coupons eliminated a bottleneck impeding the operations of determining space availability and effecting its sale. Data on a space coupon are rapidly reproduced by facsimile and without handwriting onto a preprinted Pullman ticket form, either locally or over some distance, thereby greatly reducing the time required to effect the sale of space to a waiting customer. Ticketfax transmitters and recorders were specially designed by Western Union to meet the unique requirements of this phase of the improved system."
"SWITCHING transistors may be used in conjunction with saturable-core output transformers to convert direct-voltage inputs into alternating voltages of nearly rectangular wave form.1 The output impedance is low, the over-all conversion efficiency is high, and (even in the present state of power-transistor development) output powers of tens of watts are available. Such transistor converters are therefore being considered as supply sources for magnetic amplifiers, a-c servomotors and other components used in low power servocontrol systems. For example, in air-borne military applications, transistor power supplies may replace small rotating machine inverters, which at present produce 400-cycle-persecond supplies from the aircraft battery system, with advantages in reliability and weight."
"MAGNETIC amplifiers in bistable operation behave substantially as a latch-type relay.1 Two widely different output levels can be obtained stably, one close to the quiescent and the other close to the saturated output. Over a certain range of the applied signal the one or the other condition is found to occur, depending on whether this range has been entered by increasing or decreasing values of signal."
"THE Materials Subcommittee of the Magnetic Amplifier Committee was organized principally to set up standards on materials used in connection with magnetic amplifiers and to encourage the interchange of information on materials. The object of one of the first projects which the Subcommittee undertook was to develop a set of standards to guide manufacturers in presenting basic data on magnetic amplifier core materials. These standards have been revised somewhat since their inception in 1951 and were formally submitted to the Magnetic Amplifier Committee for adoption in February 1955."
"The optimization of toroidal core shapes for use in self-saturating magnetic amplifiers requires a knowledge of the influence of the inside-diameter/outside-diameter (ID/OD) ratio on apparent core magnetic properties. A theoretical result has been derived assuming a parallelogram-shaped basic hysteresis loop. Since this result has several unexpected features of great practical interest, a rather elaborate experiment was performed which verified their existence. In one application, it has been possible to double the gain of a push-pull amplifier stage by changing the core height and radial build-up so as to increase the ID/OD ratio without changing the iron area."
"A COMMON way to study the transient response of a magnetic amplifier upon application of a step of signal or to examine its frequency response to periodical signals is to use a recording oscillograph or a cathode-ray oscilloscope. If an oscilloscope is used its sweep rate can be slowed down so as to contain a whole transient in a single sweep. Repetitive switching arrangements controlling the initiation of the transient and the time sweep make the latter procedure suitable for direct visual observation of a stationary pattern.1"
"THE measurement of process variables by means of a-c excited primary elements has been somewhat neglected. The general use of potentiometric systems has resulted largely from their excellent performance characteristics and their adaptability to a wide range of primary elements. It is generally true, however, that for a given measurement application an a-c system is simpler and hence less expensive. No provision need be made for d-c to a-c conversion, cold junction compensation, or for battery standardization."
"Signaling equipment used with short-haul carrier systems is now supplied largely on an out-of-band basis. On-hook, off-hook signals are obtained either through turning a single tone on and off, or through shifting the tone alternately between two frequency positions. Signaling with Lenkurt 45-type carrier systems makes use of frequency-shift (FS) methods. Laboratory tests with artificially induced noise and field tests during lightning periods show at least a 6-decibel (db) advantage of FS over on-off signaling arrangements in freedom from pulse distortion effects. FS arrangements also show little impairment in performance over all expected operating conditions in a telephone office. The FS signaling arrangement described in this paper also provides automatic channel level regulation of the speech channel through availability of the signaling tone as an ever-present regulating tone. Varistor keying of a transistor oscillator is used in the transmitting terminal and a polar relay in the receiving terminal to supply all normal varieties of M and E lead signaling. Mechanical arrangements provide very compact assemblies through plug-in subunits and utilization of printed wiring."
"MODERN magnetic amplifier circuitry makes use of two highly nonlinear elements, namely, rectifiers and square-loop magnetic cores. This paper presents a systematic method of analyzing circuits containing any sort of piecewise linear element that does not involve energy storage. The analysis utilizes a unique method of formulating circuit equations and a new type of symbolism and algebra, especially developed for the purpose, that allows operations on and simplifications of the resultant expressions."
"INTEREST in ACSR for railroad signal and communications circuits was stimulated by the copper shortage which occurred during the Korean War and has continued since that time. Because such circuits may be used for communications frequencies up to 150 kc per second as well as for 60-cycle power and direct current, lack of information regarding the communications characteristics of ACSR has retarded its use. In addition, there has been need for accessories and connectors considered suitable and for information regarding mechanical installation and performance. Progress in overcoming these obstacles has now been made to the extent that a test section of line has been constructed by the St. Louis and San Francisco Railway Company."
"IN RECENT years, a definite trend appears to have developed, toward d-c testing of insulation. The reasons or this trend are as follows: 1. The d-c test set required is much more portable than an equivalent a-c test set and power requirements are much less. 2. High-voltage d-c tests are less destructive than equivalent a-c tests, as evidenced by the much flatter voltage-time endurance curve in the case of direct current. 3. From the d-c tests important information may be obtained which is related to the condition of the insulation. Periodic tests make it possible to follow the insulation deterioration and thereby aid in determining the need of reconditioning steps and estimating life expectancy."
"IN THE last 15 years the practical possibilities of the fluorogases as dielectrics have increased and their use has been demonstrated in several applications.1,2 Sulfur hexafluoride and Freon 12 are available economically in large quantities and for this reason have received extensive studies.3,4,5 However, fragmentary data showed that many compounds, although not yet available in large quantities, held promise and needed comprehensive evaluations."
"THIS paper describes a relatively simple 4-quadrant analogue multiplying circuit which may be built with the use of diodes, transistors, and magnetic cores. Preliminary tests on the first experimental model show accuracy of approximately ±1 per cent (%) of full scale. Two circuits are discussed, one for sinusoidal supply and the other for square wave supply. Each provides a product of two independent voltages with output in the form of d-c pulses which may be averaged or integrated to yield a continuous analogue output. The pulsing d-c output is reversible in polarity depending upon the signs of the input, each pulse being width-modulated proportional to one of the input voltages and amplitude-modulated proportional to the other. The compactness and simplicity of the circuit make it especially attractive for applications of control and instrumentation in systems where the operation of multiplication is required."
"THE conductance contour technique1 of circuit design provides a direct and rapid means of co-ordinated static and dynamic design of electronic circuits. It yields results in a form which enables the designer to tell by inspection whether the design will comply with design requirements or is marginal or unsuitable. Design rules based on the conductance technique enable the user to test alternate tubes for the tubes having unsatisfactory characteristics. However, the rules do not make it possible to reconsider the problem and directly select two or three tubes offering the best opportunity for achieving the desired design."
"RECTANGULAR loop magnetic materials and transistors used as switches have been combined to produce a simple, high-speed analogue divider. This device is capable of producing an output whose average voltage is the quotient, with the correct sign, of two input voltages. A preliminary model of this divider gives accuracies of ±2.5 per cent of full scale readings for a quotient range of 100 to 1 and input variations of both numerator and denominator of better than 10 to 1."
"The high permeabilities combined with high resistivities of recently developed ferrites makes practical a number of saturable reactor devices whose operation is based on the superposition of perpendicular fields. This paper presents a core configuration whereby the two perpendicular fields can be superposed and a number of applications for this type of reactor. Of particular interest is a perpendicular field low-level modulator."
"This investigation was concerned with a study of the breakdown behavior of the higher molecular weight perfluorocarbon vapors and mixtures of these with nitrogen. Impulse and 60-cycle data were obtained under both uniform and nonuniform field conditions. The results are compared with those for sulfur hexafluoride, nitrogen, and oil. It was found that these perfluorocarbon vapors have surprisingly high dielectric strength not only in the pure form but also when mixed with nitrogen. Values of dielectric strength higher than for sulfur hexafluoride are easily obtainable at the same pressure. Values equal to those for oil can be obtained at relatively low pressures under certain conditions. The results are briefly discussed in terms of modern gas breakdown theory. The unusually high dielectric breakdown combined with complete non-flammability, inertness, and excellent thermal stability of the perfluorocarbons suggest that they should find applications in the insulation field."
"The importance of minimizing time delays in a typical autopilot channel are discussed and the major advantages to be gained in the use of magnetic amplifier systems having responses which are small in comparison with the period of 1 complete cycle of the power supply are described. Magnetic frequency multipliers, magnetic pulse transformers, and transistor pulse generators are discussed, and corresponding circuit schematics which yield frequency multiplication from d-c and single-phase or multiphase a-c supplies are shown. A typical 400-cycle-per-second (cps) decicycle magnetic amplifier system which provides a reversible polarity d-c output is described. A comparison of response time, transfer characteristics, weight, and volume is made with a standard, high-performance 400-cps half-cycle response magnetic amplifier having the same power rating. It is shown that the decicycle magnetic amplifier system yields twice the sensitivity and one-sixth the response time for equivalent power rating and weight."
"THE purpose of this paper is to provide data and from these to draw conclusions on three questions involving the flow of 60-cycle alternating currents in iron or steel structures. First, the paper will attempt to provide a simple empirical means of calculating the a-c impedance of iron or steel members. The application of these data for protective grounding and fault calculations will be presented in a companion paper. Second, the paper will indicate the effect of joints and couplings in iron and steel structures on the flow of 60-cycle currents. The third question that this paper will attempt to answer is what effect the current flow on iron conduit surfaces will have on control conductors in the conduits. The application of these data will also be covered in a companion paper."
"THE rapid development of magnetic amplifiers in recent years has led to the spending of much effort on their analysis and design criteria. Despite the progress made, a major part of the design must still be carried out experimentally."
"THE biased rectifier amplifier (BRA) was developed to provide small, fast and high-gain magnetic amplifiers which operate from power frequencies such as 60 or 400 cycles. They operate from a pulse power supply and use a voltage source, such as a battery, in series with its rectifiers. They provide push-pull output with one core."
"EACH ENGINEER who for the first time concerns himself with the problems of telephone interoffice trunking discovers that practically the only source of information regarding equipment and operation comes from actual circuits and circuit description sheets which are not always available. This paper summarizes the information gained from a review of a number of trunk circuits with a view to providing the interested engineer with a basis for choosing the method of operation best suited to his particular need."
"This paper has been prepared to introduce a single-ended saturable reactor circuit which exhibits a transfer characteristic for which the d-c output is essentially a linear function of the d-c input for the entire design range of d-c inputs. This “to-zero” operation is shown to be the result of a unique combination of nonlinear characteristics of conventional devices, transformer and rectifier, which eliminates the magnetizing component of the reactor current from the d-c output. The new circuit is presented and a qualitative description of the circuit operation is given."
"THE principles for measuring dielectric properties of materials at ultrahigh frequencies are well established.1,2 They are based on measurement of voltage standing wave ratio (VSWR) and location of the standing wave pattern, which results from reflection of electromagnetic waves in front of the sample; see Fig. 1. Transmission line or wave guide sections, depending upon frequency, are used to obtain the necessary 1-dimensional field propagation. The complex reflection factor p, obtained from the measurement as indicated, is related to the dielectric properties of the sample. This relationship permits expressions of the dielectric properties directly, in terms of the observed quantities W = 1 - ρ/1 + ρ (inverse of VSWR) and l0 = x0 + λ/4. For the two most important special cases, sample loaded with either infinite or zero impedance, the relations given in Fig. 2 hold.2 ϵ* is the complex dielectric constant of the sample, ϵ its permittivity, and tan δ characterizes the dielectric losses. It is assumed that the dimensions of the transmission line are unchanged in the sample section, as indicated in Figs. 1 and 2."
"IN CONNECTION with the development of military communications equipment for field application, a set of electrical and mechanical requirements was established for a regulated power supply for battery charging and floating service which was particularly unusual for equipment of this type. Mechanically, a portable unit was required with the size and weight to be kept to a minimum. At the same same, extreme ruggedness and reliability were necessary to meet the rough treatment anticipated in field operation."
"The theory of operation of a static magnetic reference device is described. Test results for a practical example show that an output of 15 ± 0.2 milliampere into a 50-ohm resistive load can be obtained for an input of 100 to 140 volts, 360 to 440 cycles per second, from -55 degrees centigrade (C) to + 100 C ambient temperature. The power input to the device is 5 watts."
"The transmission matrix of N alike cascaded networks is derived without the help of advanced concepts or theorems of matrix algebra. Thereafter, a bridge is provided between this more modern approach and the older iterative-parameter theory."
"This paper analyses the transient behavior of a circuit with nonlinear resistance, inductance, and capacitance by the acceleration plane method developed recently by the author.1 The method as extended here is able to solve a nonlinear differential equation of the following type: ϕ(x)x + f(x, x) + f1(x) = F(t). Five examples are given, with F(t) equal to a constant or a time function. Either ϕ(x), f1(x, x), or f1(x) may be gven as a graph plotted from experimental data. The forcing function F(t) may be a sine wave or any time function. The method owes its simplicity to a close relation with physical boundary conditions. In one example, the phenomenon of ferroresonance is obtained. Also the possibility of applying the same method to a circuit with R(t), L(t), and C(t) is indicated."
"The method of high-order phase planes1 or phase space is applied to the solution of nonlinear coupled circuits. Two simple examples are given to illustrate the application of this method. In the first example, a nonlinear resistance is introduced in the primary circuit. In the second example, a nonlinear inductance is used. It is possible to extend the application of the method to circuits with nonlinear capacitance and nonlinear mutual inductance. The method is applicable to any number of coupled circuits with nonlinear elements in any of the meshes or in the coupling between the meshes."
"Metals and ferrites with rectangular hysteresis loops are used in magnetic amplifiers, switching networks, and data-storage systems. In these applications, the large-signal pulse response is most important. To reduce the effect of eddy currents, metals have been rolled to ultrathin gauge and high-resistivity ferrites have been used. By these techniques, eddy currents have been reduced to the point where relaxation effects limit the response time in both cases. The relative merits of metals and ferrites indicate that at present ultrathin metal-ribbon cores are better for stepping registers and switching circuits, while ferrite cores are better for use in coincident-current memories."
"THE foremost requirement to be met in the design of computers for operational use by the military services is that of providing adequate reliability of operation. Such equipment should have a mean life between failures of more than 6 months when operated under unfavorable environmental conditions. This degree of reliability is needed to insure that the equipment will inspire the user's confidence in its functional availability, and that the maintenance load under front-line conditions is kept within the capability of the services. If the designer adopts this precept, then he must limit the complexity of the equations solved in accordance with the inherent reliability of the computer components. Conventional computer elements such as servos, with their vacuum-tube amplifiers, moving parts, and potentiometers, have sufficiently low component reliability that only simple computers will meet the over-all reliability requirements. On the other hand, computers with this degree of simplicity will inadequately meet many job requirements. The best way out of this dilemma is to find new computing techniques which have a higher inherent reliability factor per unit computing operation performed."
"TREMENDOUS advances have been made in semiconductor technology during the past 5 years. One of the many fields to benefit from this progress has been power rectification. The extended-area, germanium-junction diode is now a reality. The possibility of using silicon instead of germanium to provide greater freedom from ambient temperature limitations is being investigated. These new rectifying elements have improved the size, weight, efficiency, and reliability of rectifier equipments. To keep pace with the rectifying elements, there is need for corresponding improvements in regulating circuitry. It is the author's belief that this challenge will be met by the wider application of semiconductor devices in regulating circuits. Low-level junction transistors and low-leakage junction diodes are now available. Junction transistors with higher power ratings and junction diodes suitable for use as voltage standards are being developed. It is the purpose of this paper to present a few basic circuits illustrating the use of these devices to perform various functions in the feedback loop of a regulated rectifier. The type of regulated rectifier chosen for example is one suitable for charging and floating telephone central office storage batteries. As a starting point, the essential functions in the feedback loop of such a rectifier will be considered."
"Regulated metallic rectifiers have been used throughout the Bell System to provide talking current, to power relays, switches, and vacuum-tube filaments; and to supply vacuum-tube plate potentials. With the advent of semiconductor devices such as transistors and junction diodes, the regulated metallic rectifier is assuming added importance. However, the lower voltages generally required by these semiconductor amplifier and switching devices have required a re-evaluation of the regulating principles used in metallic rectifiers. It has been found possible to replace previous vacuum-tube and magnetic-amplifier regulating circuits with equivalent and usually more compact and efficient semiconductor apparatus. This paper discusses the suitability of silicon-alloy junction diodes having very sharp reverse breakdown characteristics in the reference standard portion of closed-loop feedback regulating circuits of metallic rectifiers."
"THE understanding of magnetic recording and playback processes and the applications for magnetic recording have made considerable strides during the last 15 years. In the period of the early 1930's magnetic recorders had to operate with a recording-medium speed from 5 to 10 feet per second to secure a frequency response from 50 to 5,000 cycles per second. Today it is almost standard practice to achieve the same response characteristic with much higher signal-to-noise ratio and with considerably less distortion even though the medium moves only with a velocity of 2.5 to 3 inches per second. This represents a speed reduction of 20 to 1. The weight reduction is still greater, namely, 50 to 1 since the specific weight of plastic tape is at least 2.5 times less than that of steel tape which was used at that time. No other method of recording, whether mechanical or optical, has made such an advance in such a short period. A brief review of the history of magnetic recording indicates that 20 years ago the available magnetic-recording media with their relatively low coercive force limited the high-frequency response. In about 1936, Vicalloy tape, with more suitable magnetic properties, shifted the burden of improvements to magnetic heads. Then, coated magnetic tape and ring heads made their appearance, both intrinsically capable of a performance characteristic which has as yet not been fully exploited."
"A practical standard for direct current has been developed and is incorporated into a high-accuracy measuring instrument. Utilizing the stability of a permanent magnet, this device may be stored and used under extreme conditions of temperature, and it is relatively insensitive to variation in operating conditions."
"THE purpose of this paper is to explain and illustrate the use of feedback techniques in the alteration of the dynamic response of full-wave magnetic amplifiers with d-c outputs. A generalized sinusoidal transfer function for a single-stage magnetic amplifier with feedback through frequency sensitive elements is derived, and several examples are given of the application of the feedback method in servo systems. Feedback, as discussed in this paper, is external and is applied to a basic amplifier in such a manner as to change its frequency response characteristics. The self-saturating amplifier, in particular, is considered to be a basic amplifier to which negative or positive feedback may be applied, although the analysis is also valid for other types of magnetic amplifiers."
"A study was made of the fundamental properties of the high-current d-c arc in argon at atmospheric pressure, at currents of 25 to 100 amperes and for various electrode materials. Spectroscopic observations were made on the arc, and data for the voltage-current and voltage-arc length characteristics were taken for all materials tested. Anode melting rates were determined for copper, iron, and titanium. In addition, some information on minimum starting currents was obtained. These arc studies made it possible to develop a new empirical equation which depicts the electrical characteristics of the arcs investigated over a wide range of currents, including the positive slope region of the V-I curves. With this equation as a basis, reasonable energy and voltage balance relationships were developed and the relative values of the equation constants for the different materials were used for a comparison of their effects on the arc characteristics. In general, the arc is affected more by changes in gas composition than by changes in electrode materials. The melting rate data seemed to support a conclusion that in arcs of this type, over the current range studied, the anode drop is zero or extremely small."
"In the first part of the paper some of the important considerations in nation-wide toll switching are discussed. In the second part an arrangement in a new intertoll switching system is described which permits considerable simplifications in the equipment for the routing of toll calls."
"THIS paper presents an algebra that can aid in the simplification, the synthesis, and the understanding of circuits containing rectifiers and resistors. More specifically, it gives a method of rendering rectifier-resistor circuits into symbols with rules for manipulating these symbols. Here, in essence, an algebra is set up analogous to, but differing considerably from the well-known algebra of Shannon for relay circuits.1"
"A METHOD of measuring the magnetic characteristics which control the manner in which cores operate in self-saturating magnetic amplifiers is necessary for both economical production and accurate design of such amplifiers. It has been found1,2 that there is a lack of direct correlation between amplifier characteristics, such as gain, and either d-c or a-c major hysteresis loop measurements. The difficulty lies in the manner in which the time lag3 occurring between the application of a magnetizing force on a core and the resultant change in magnetic induction, affects the operation of a self-saturating amplifier. The result is that, to determine the effective magnetic characteristics of a core pertinent to self-saturating magnetic-amplifier operation, it is necessary to measure characteristics under simulated amplifier operating conditions in such a way that the effect of magnetization lag will be similar."
"THE problem of synthesizing minimal switching circuits that satisfy any preassigned input condition is one that has of late received considerable attention. Analysis to date has tended to be dependent principally on methods derived from Boolean algebra. While such mathematics are not new, their development, especially as is applicable to the combinational switching problem, has not been comparable to the more familiar algebra of real numbers."
"Harmonic analysis may be carried out for nonlinear devices by the use of a set of polynomial functions applied directly to the nonlinear characteristic instead of by the more conventional use of trigonometric functions. Higher accuracy may sometimes be achieved in point-by-point calculations. A special method of representation shows how the form of the nonlinear characteristic affects its response. A method is presented for using measurements of amplitudes to obtain analytical expressions for the nonlinear function."
"THIS paper explains and illustrates a new way of analyzing magnetic amplifiers through the use of difference equations, and it shows that this method of analysis leads to a different view of the mechanics of operation of the magnetic amplifier. It will be shown that all magnetic amplifiers operate upon the same basic principles, and that these basic principles are demonstrated by the operation of the half-wave, half-cycle-response magnetic amplifier, as is shown in Fig. 1. Furthermore, this circuit can be considered the building-block of all magnetic amplifiers."
"The electrostatic potential in air resulting from an ion space charge of one predominant sign is difficult to measure with existing potential-measuring instruments. An ideal instrument should not deplete the ion space charge and should be capable of measuring relatively low potentials. An instrument using the null-and-substitution method, and combining an electronic pulse widener and a vacuum-tube voltmeter, is described. This instrument has an application in measuring ion density in air by measuring the electrostatic potential attributable to ion space charge; Poisson's equation can then be solved for ion density."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the title page of this issue of the periodical."
"THIS paper describes an air-borne temperature indicator which was developed specifically for the U. S. Army Signal Corps, Belmar, N. J. While the specification indicated that the instrument should be of the electromechanical null-balance type,1 many of the required features represented significant departures from those of somewhat similar instruments used in industrial applications. Operation from a 115-volt (±10 per cent) 400-cycle (±5 per cent) power source was required, and the instrument was to have a range of -70 to +60 degrees centigrade (C) (4.92 millivolts for a copper-constantan thermocouple). The full-scale response time was specified to be less than 10 seconds, the minimum sensitivity 4 microvolts (0.14 C), and the limit of error ±1 C. Operation in accordance with these specifications, as well as storage without power connected, over an ambient temperature range of -55 to +55 C was required; this requirement precluded the use of dry batteries or standard cells. The indicator had to be small in size and weight, be sufficiently rugged to withstand severe shock and vibration, and develop sufficient torque to position a synchro transmitter."
"CATHODE followers find wide application in modern electronics because of their simple structure, their fairly distortionless operation, and their low output impedance. Designing for small signal amplification is easy; for large signal amplification a complication is introduced with the requirement that the distortion-free driving range of the control grid be utilized fully. This problem can be solved graphically, but the procedure is cumbersome and of limited application. Its usefulness can be greatly enhanced if it is used merely to check and improve an approximate preliminary design obtained analytically."
"LIMITATIONS in the design of high-performance magnetic amplifiers have often been attributed to imperfections in the magnetic amplifier core and rectifier characteristics. Yet, in some instances, the useful operation of the magnetic amplifer has been the result of the existence of these same so-called imperfections. Evaluation and understanding of the parameters of the material imperfections can point the way toward utilization of the characteristics which have been regarded as the limiting factors in the amplifier performance."
"The performance of the ring modulator as a phase-sensitive rectifier is described qualitatively. Under the assumption of idealized conditions, and with the use of the analytical approach originally developed for the ring modulator, the polarized rectifier is described quantitatively, both for steady state and transient state. The analytical findings are checked experimentally. A differential polarized rectifier functioning as a true null detector is also discussed."
"THE large increase in the use of teletypewriters in the Bell System in recent years has necessitated the development of improved arrangements for interconnecting telegraph facilities to form the networks employed by private-line services (also called leased-wire services). Greater flexibility is required in order to permit these networks to be built up and rearranged quickly to meet ever-changing customer requirements. With continuous improvements in the operating stability and reliability of telegraph line facilities, together with greatly increased demands from government and industry, private-line networks have become vastly complex."
"A MEETING of Technical Committee (TC) 24 on Electric and Magnetic Magnitudes and Units (EMMU) was held at Philadelphia, Pa., on September 10 and 11, 1954, during the Golden Jubilee of the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC). It should be understood that the recommendations made by this committee, and given in the following, have been referred to the national committees of the various countries for an official vote under the 6 months' rule. Thus they are not as yet official decisions. However, since each recommendation was approved by a large majority of the delegates present from the various countries, it seems reasonable to expect that they will be approved by the national committees."
"The design considerations of mutual-inductance devices for use in noncontacting measurements of distance are studied with special emphasis on the eddy-current type utilizing “perfectly” conducting metal reference plates of infinite extent. The force on the plate due to the exciting current, typical schematic circuits used to detect the results, and the effects of rapid motion of the gauge are given. Since actual reference plates are not perfectly conducting nor infinitely extensive, some indications of the effects of finite conductivity and limited extent of reference plates are included."
"IN SERVOMECHANISMS used in military applications, one of the weakest links is the electronic amplifier. The electronic amplifier is undesirable primarily because of its fragility, maintenance requirements, low power efficiency, and often objectionable warm-up time. The magnetic amplifier is much more rugged, has a much longer life, has a greater power efficiency, requires much less maintenance, and has no warm-up time. Thus, one of the most obvious and potentially fruitful applications of magnetic amplifiers is in the control of 2-phase motors in servomechanisms."
"THE fixed voltage-time integral value determined by the swing of the flux level of a rectangular hysteresis loop magnetic core from one saturation level to the other has been exploited in a variety of ways, e.g., in magnetic amplifiers, saturating transformers, etc. Nevertheless, extensive utilization of the integrating capabilities of cores has been limited by the functions which associated circuit components are capable of performing. Employing junction transistors as circuit components, however, opens new possibilities of using this characteristic of saturable cores to perform a variety of useful functions."
"A NEW telegraph carrier terminal has been developed to meet the ever-increasing demand for telegraph communication facilities. The terminal is designed to meet the frequency spectrum requirements for 12-channel telegraph systems.1 These standards were set up to allow the telegraph communication systems of the U. S. Army, Navy, and Air Force and many existing commercial systems to be integrated for joint use in the interest of national defense."
"WHEN the engineer designs a device or a component he is always interested in achieving an optimum of one characteristic with respect to another. He might, e.g., wish to build a cylindrical capacitor. His optimization problem might be to find proportions of the cylinder which will yield the greatest capacitance for a given weight or cost of materials, all other design considerations being held fixed."
"A THERMAL life test which will give quick results is a desirable feature in wire enamel development. Since it may be necessary to screen many formulations, it is desirable that this test be convenient to run. Four criteria for thermal life determination are briefly reviewed. These are as follows: 1. visual inspection of thermally aged coils; 2. flexibility of aged enameled wire; 3. decrease in film thickness with aging; and 4. dielectric breakdown of aged dielectric twist samples. In each test the enameled wire samples are aged in air-circulating ovens and the life is determined at temperatures of 100 to 300 degrees centigrade (C). Some data obtained from these tests are presented."
"Solutions of field problems can often be approximately obtained by constructing a 2-dimensional model of the field to be studied in an electrolytic tank. A servomechanism is described which is arranged to follow the equipotential lines that exist in such a model and to plot them automatically. A rotating co-ordinate system is employed to enable the device to trace out closed curves and other multivalued functions. This co-ordinate system is automatically aligned with the equipotential lines to be followed so that the sweep velocity is constant and parallel to the desired curve and correction velocity is normal to this curve. The system is analyzed with particular emphasis on stability and accuracy. The prototype plotter was able to follow curves with a minimum radius of 1/2 inch and maintain an accuracy of 0.5 per cent of maximum travel."
"THE PROBLEM of signal overload has become increasingly severe as a result of the trend in modern television receiver design toward higher sensitivity. Most television manufacturers at present use either a high-gain pentode or cascode type of radio frequency (r-f) amplifier in their very-high-frequency tuners followed by an efficient mixer and three or four stages of amplification. The gain resulting from this combination coupled with higher radiated transmitter power gives rise to the serious problem of receiver overload in some areas. Signal levels of the order of 1.0 volt have been measured in the New York City area."
"SCIENCE may be defined as “systematized knowledge.” Statistics has been called “the technology of the scientific method.” 1 Engineering is “the useful application of the findings of science.” At first glance, it would appear that these three fields are bound together in an inseparable relationship; but we know that they have always been treated as quite separate areas of interest, both on the campus and in industrial application, and therein lies a problem. While in certain types of engineering the theories of science may be applied without very much knowledge of how these theories were derived, there are other fields of engineering that must use the method of science itself. Reliability engineering is an example. It has arisen with the multiplying complexity and importance of electronic products, and must cope with all of the phases in the evolution of a product, from the designer to the user, and back to the designer. The recent rise of such fields as systems engineering, operations research, and cybernetics seems to have been motivated by this same increasing complexity. Engineers at present are faced with problems of a more and more confusing nature, the solutions for which lie in a more and more theoretical realm. We believe that the traditional, scholastic separation of science, statistics, and engineering creates a problem that is present in all technology, and that while it seriously affects only a few branches of engineering at present, its impact upon all of engineering is both inevitable and imminent."
"ONE OF the most elegant contributions to electric network theory was made by Brune1 in 1931. On the basis of work by earlier contributors, mainly Foster2, W. Cauer,3‾5,/sup> and Fry,6 Brune proved a fundamental theorem:"
"THE PAST 8 years, with the advent of improved semiconductor rectifiers and the availability of high quality magnetic materials have seen greatly renewed interest in the static magnetic amplifier. Current literature offers a number of articles on magnetic-amplifier theory, with a smaller number of reports available on design and application. It is interesting and perhaps a little puzzling to note that in spite of the fact that saturable reactors in the early 1900's were chiefly employed as relatively large power regulating devices, the present-day trend of magnetic-amplifier application has been toward small to moderate signal and power control. The controlled power design tendency has been to use low-level static magnetic amplifiers driving higher power rotating magnetic amplifiers such as rotatrols, amplydynes, and conventional generators or controlling electronic converters such as thyratrons or ignitions. The rationale of this arrangement is sometimes obscure when we consider that the static amplifier has been chosen for the low-level application because of its simplicity, dependability, versatility, etc., while the same characteristics plus high efficiency, low cost, and long life are often overlooked in determining the higher power converting-controlling element."
"A magnetic frequency multiplier circuit operating from a 60-cycle-per-second (cps) 3-phase supply and delivering an approximately sinusoidal output at a frequency of 180 cps consisting of three identical nonlinear reactors of Deltamax cores inductively loaded is analyzed and a simple design procedure is outlined. The particular case of triple multiplication is chosen for convenience. The method of analysis may be extended to higher frequencies, either by using higher supply frequency or by using more phases. The power capability of the system depends upon the size of the cores, thus efficient multipliers for any desired power output may be designed."
"THE STATIC electrical properties of small-area silicon P-N junction rectifiers prepared by the alloy fusion process have been described by Pearson and Sawyer1 in 1952. Since that time rectifiers of the same type and having about the same P-N junction area (in the order of 0.0005 to 0.001 square centimeter (cm)) have become commercially available. The development of these rectifiers confirms theoretical expectations as to the superior electrical properties of silicon over germanium for semiconductor devices. These superior properties, which include extremely low reverse currents, high rectification ratios, and the ability to operate successfully at high ambient temperatures, are attributed to the wider energy gap in silicon (1.15 electron volts) as compared to germanium (0.75 electron volt)."
"MUCH literature has been devoted to the use of junction transistors as linear amplifiers but there has been very little information presented on the signal properties of these devices. As large signal devices, transistors have unique characteristics which enable them to perform many functions which were impossible with previously known devices. It is the purpose of this paper to point out some of these characteristics and to give a few illustrative applications."
"FULL-WAVE magnetic amplifiers are not efficiently controlled with a-c signals applied directly to the control windings because the circuit configurations necessary do not give sufficiently high gain. Half-wave magnetic amplifiers which can accept a-c signals directly have relatively low gain. The most sensitive, stable magnetic amplifiers require a d-c control current, but in many servo applications the servo amplifier must accept a phase-reversible alternating voltage and deliver an output that will reverse phase as the phase of the input signal reverses."
"Plans have been announced for the laying of the first transatlantic telephone cable system to link the United Kingdom, Canada, and the United States, with a target date for completion in 1956. This paper traces the history of communication across the North Atlantic and discusses the inadequacy of radio circuits to satisfy the requirements of traffic growth. A general description is then given of the cable system which will provide 36 telephone circuits across the Atlantic and 60 between Newfoundland and Nova Scotia. The project has been made possible only by the development of submerged repeaters containing long-life vacuum tubes and other components, and these are described, as well as the American experimental work that led to the development of a flexible repeater housing which could be laid at depths of 2 miles without risk of damage to itself or to the cable. Fifty-two of these repeaters will be used in each of two 1-way cables, nearly 2,000 nautical miles long, connecting Newfoundland with Scotland. Newfoundland will be connected to Nova Scotia by a single cable containing 16 2-way repeaters of British design evolved from that which has been extensively used for schemes in home waters."
"THOSE concerned with the development of high-performance magnetic amplifier servo systems have long recognized the need for an output stage which would produce a full-wave current output into a servomotor and still retain the two inherent advantages, namely, the high speed of response and demodulation of the half-wave amplifier. In this paper a new concept in full-wave push-pull output stages is presented which fulfills this need. Test data are given to show its operation in an actual system."
"ONE of the interesting possibilities of using transistors as switches would be to replace mechanical vibrators or choppers in the input of d-c amplifiers. The ability of transistor switches to function with emitter-collector voltages of the order of 1 millivolt or less led to a further investigation of transistor-switching behavior at these very low levels. Peculiarities of circuits utilizing transistors as switches at these low levels are discussed and possible methods of compensating for these peculiarities are presented. Effects of temperature on behavior were also investigated and it was found that, by suitably matching pairs of transistors, the effects of temperature from -50 to +90 degrees centigrade (C) were practically negligible for germanium transistors."
"IN 1947, a group representing all phases of the aviation industry met as Special Committee 31 of the Radio Technical Commission for Aeronautics (RTCA). Their purpose was to bring order out of a chaos where many different systems of air navigation and air traffic control were being proposed and developed to satisfy the same need. This group evaluated the existing and proposed systems and formulated a long-range plan for orderly progress toward the development of a common system to serve all nontactical military air traffic and all civilian aircraft."
"SINCE the original announcements of J. Rabinow's investigations of magnetic fluid clutches in 1948,1 much energy has been expended to make practical use of this phenomenon. Application to computers, machine tools, dynamometers, and automotive clutches are but a few of the areas which have been studied. The results of these application studies have not been as rewarding as originally anticipated, although at least two manufacturers are making a commercial product."
"A digital information processing system has been built for handling and storing flight plans and weather information. Messages are received and sent out by the system automatically over standard teletype lines. Requests for stored information and directions to change it are also transmitted by teletype. This system is capable of being connected in common with other similar systems by a teletype network with automatic switching facilities. It was designed to form part of the common system for air traffic control. Received messages are randomly filed in a magnetic drum store and subsequently found by means of their contents. The system has a complete logical plan which is designed to give a specific result for each possible action and to cause any questionable or obviously erroneous received messages to be printed out for supervisory review."
"THERE are many situations in which data are obtained describing events that occur at random. If the mechanism causing the random events is such that the events are independent and the probability of occurrence in any given interval of time is constant, the occurrence is described by the Poisson distribution. In a population of events which are normally expected to occur according to the Poisson distribution, certain events may occur as the result of special factors which operate in relation to them only. In such cases, these specially influenced events will not fall within the Poisson distribution that describes the rest of the population. It may be desirable to study the factors causing their peculiar occurrence and this will require that the normally occurring events be separated from the normally occurring ones. A practical machine method for making this kind of separation for any data which are Poisson-distributed is outlined. For clarity, the techniques will be described in terms of a particular example but other applications are of course possible."
"THE need for wide-band impedance-transforming devices has long been recognized. The increasing interest in the use of very short pulses of millimicro-second duration in radar, communication, and other systems accentuates the demand for a device which is capable of faithfully transforming such pulses. As the bandwidth and upper cutoff frequency increase, it becomes more and more difficult to construct suitable lumped-parameter or iron-core transformers of conventional design. Thus, the trend in recent years has been toward distributed systems, particularly of the tapered transmission line variety. Various tapers such as the linear,1 Bessel,2,3 exponential,4‾8 and hyperbolic9 have been proposed and analyzed by several investigators. In addition, many different physical structures employing these tapers have been constructed and tested experimentally. These were the 2-wire open line,4,5 the concentric circular cylinders,7‾9 and the shielded wire and tape helices.10,11 By and large, each experimental model has been physically bulky and difficult to construct. It is the purpose of this paper to investigate a tapered transmission line design which is reduced in physical bulk and which can be fabricated more economically."
"IN RECENT years, considerable emphasis has been placed on high-speed counting devices for use in electronic computers and designed to operate at pulse rates of the order of 100 kc, and higher. These of necessity involved hot-cathode electron tubes."
"ELECTRICAL spark-over between metallic electrodes in a liquid dielectric is followed by a high current-density discharge, the removal of electrode material, the formation of well-defined and characteristic electrode craters and, under some conditions, the production of colloidal suspensions of metal particles in the liquid. The associated phenomena have been the subject of many studies, originally with emphasis on colloidal suspensions,1,2 and more recently, in connection with \"electrical\" machining3,4 processes in which the electrode material removal is adapted for purposes analogous to those encountered in conventional machine tools. Despite the development of an extensive electrical machining art the physical phenomena involved have been incompletely understood. The authors have conducted several investigations of the physical phenomena, earlier results of which have been reported.3,4 Experimental techniques have subsequently been refined to achieve quantitative data which clarify both the process and its underlying theory. This paper is the first of a series on these results."
"SATURABLE reactors have been widely applied in the electric control art. A less well-known use is in pulse-shaping or pulse-switching circuits, examples of which are to be found in ignitron trigger circuits and in modulators for high-power oscillators in radar transmitters. In the latter instance, circuits may become quite complex and there has been a need for criteria which will result in a simple design procedure. In this paper some useful relations applicable to this problem are described."
"The cost of supplying telephone service to rural subscribers is high in large part because of the high initial cost and the maintenance of outside plant required to serve the subscribers. For the immediate future the most promising methods of reducing these costs are by new and cheaper methods of line construction and by concentrating the load on fewer pairs rather than by other types of transmission such as radio. Some Bell system developments now under trial to reduce the cost of line construction and to increase the load capacity of existing lines are described. The problems of carrier transmission in rural plant are discussed with emphasis on over-all cost reductions which may be obtained by the use of the transistor and the compandor circuit."
"IN THE field of electric control of automatized machines, much effort is being directed towards co-ordinating the thinking of engineers in the mechanical field of design1 and in the electrical field of signal communication.2 One of the problems dictates the evolution of a common vocabulary. Closely related to it is the matter of making available to engineers in each of the two fields the body of knowledge already available in the other. These twin problems are discussed for a specific, typical situation."
"A method is described for direct, rapid, and simultaneous measurement of the real and quadrature components of a driving-point or transfer impedance and admittance over a wide and continuous range of frequency. Basically, the method employs a mixer which derives its signal and local oscillator voltages from the voltage across and current through the unknown impedance respectively. With the unknown driven by a sinusoidal constant current, the mixer d-c output is linearly related to the unknown resistance. If the phase difference between the two derived voltages is altered by 90 degrees, the mixer d-c output is linearly related to the unknown reactance. To measure the components of an admittance, the unknown is driven by a sinusoidal constant voltage and the signal and local oscillator voltages are interchanged. Apparatus using this method for measurement of impedance and admittance in the frequency range of 50 kc to 5 megacycles (mc) has been built. With suitable modifications of detail, the method appears to be usable from acoustic to microwave frequencies."
"THE growing importance of vibration requirements in the field of component testing has created an increasing need for means of measuring the magnitude of the vibrating forces and displacements to which components are subjected. In general, quantities should be measured; acceleration, velocity, and displacement. While it is always advantageous to measure directly the quantity to be known, it is quite easy to convert data from one quantity to the other when the frequency and wave form are known."
"Toroidal, laminated cores of several important magnetic materials were tested for their magnetic properties at compressional stresses ranging from 0 to 500 pounds per square inch (psi). The compressional stress was applied in a direction perpendicular to the plane of the laminations and perpendicular to the direction of the magnetic field. The materials tested were 3.5 and 6.4-per-cent silicon-iron, 81 and 90-per-cent nickel-iron, and both hydrogen- and air-annealed samples of AEM 4750, 12 Alfenol, and 16 Alfenol. Tests were run at frequencies of zero, 60, and 400 cycles per second (cps). Under the action of an increasing compressional stress, each of the materials having nonzero magnetostriction exhibited a decrease in maximum permeability and remanence, an increase in coercive force, and a maximum flux density which remained virtually unchanged. The a-c magnetization curve was shifted downward, and the a-c hysteresis loops became less rectangular as the compressional stress was increased. Except at very low fields, materials having zero magnetostriction were unaffected magnetically by the transverse compressional stress. The experimental results indicate that magnetic effects of transverse compressional stress are dependent on the magnitude and independent of the sign of the magnetostriction. The results of this paper can be applied in choosing a magnetic material for a particular application where sensitivity to transverse compressional stress is an important design consideration."
"Three novel electronic measuring instruments are presented, which may be used to measure power, power factor (pf), voltage, current, or impedance. They use two tubes, operated as cathode followers, in a push-pull fashion, so that the inherent property of a wide-range linear characteristic is employed to advantage. The new principle underlying the operation of the tubes involves the commutation of their currents in alternate half-cycles by means of a square-wave generator. The resulting average plate current is a direct measure of the product I cos ϕ. A rectifier gives a direct current proportional to the alternating voltage, and an electrodynamic instrument multiplies the two direct currents, thus giving a direct reading of the power. For the direct reading of pf, two direct currents are obtained, one being proportional to the product V cos ϕ and the other proportional to V. Their quotient is a direct measure of cos ϕ. The division is effected by means of a twin logarithmic d-c instrument having a movable scale. The instruments are characterized by their simplicity, reliability, high accuracy, and stability. They have exceptionally good features and predictable performance over a frequency range extending from the lowest power frequencies to a predicted value of about 30 megacycles (mc) when using high-frequency tubes; the main limiting factor being the stray capacities across the output of the square-wave generator. There are, however, some other factors which tend to lower this operating limit, and 10 mc is considered a reasonable higher limit."
"A PHYSICAL and mathematical theory of the interaction of two mutually orthogonal coils in a ferromagnetic medium is developed. For purposes of analysis, an idealized configuration with cross-sectional view, as shown in Fig. 1, is studied. Two coils, x and y, are wound at right angles to each other about a cylinder of ferromagnetic material of permeability μ. The structure is then immersed in a medium of infinite permeability. This last requirement is not stringent, it being required only that the saturation effects be confined to the central core for purposes of analysis. It is assumed further that the core material has no hysteresis or eddy-current losses while its typically nonlinear magnetization curve is as shown in Fig. 2. It is shown how the nonlinearity in the magnetization curve results in the interaction of the orthogonal circuits."
"THE recent activity and interest in the development of computer methods for speeding up the solution time for power-system transient-stability problems has prompted the reporting of some work done on the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) network analyzer. The idea of coupling a computing device to a network analyzer for solving the electromechanical differential equations of the synchronous machine rotor positions following a fault or other large disturbances to the system is certainly not a new one. Many people have considered the idea and have concluded that the problem is not one of concept but of constructing and instrumenting a computing system which would fulfill all of the operational and economic requirements of the network analyzer service."
"A SIMPLE means of measuring the electrical resistance of a-c energized windings has long been desired inasmuch as it would permit the determination of winding temperatures while the windings are operating under actual load conditions. The circuit as outlined in this paper makes such measurement possible."
"A fundamental study of the mechanism of propagation of impulse creepage streamers over an insulating surface is reported. The studies were made using high-speed cameras, still cameras, and special probes, to give a new picture of the creepage process. High-speed photographs show that impulse creepage in the nonuniform field is a stepped discharge process, remarkably similar to natural lightning except on a greatly reduced scale. Probe measurements display the variation of channel voltages with time and distance. The mechanism is discussed in considerable detail for both positive and negative polarities."
"A method for evaluating the thermal stability of magnet wire enamel has been developed using the dielectric strength of the enamel film as a criterion. This test method was designed for accuracy, simplicity, and economy in time, labor, materials, and equipment. Standard National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) dielectric strength twists1 are dipped in an electrical impregnating varnish and used as test samples. To achieve sufficient accuracy, a large number of these twists are included in an enamel evaluation program. The twists are placed in aging ovens at various temperatures. Periodically the samples are removed and tested by applying a high voltage. The average aging time required to reduce the dielectric strength of the twists to a preselected value is considered the life of the enamel. The relative life of the enameled wire insulation system over a wide temperature range may then be predicted from the life of the samples determined at several temperatures. Studies have been made of this test method under different sample preparation methods, failure criteria, and aging conditions. Results determined by this test are compared with motor-aging test results on the same enamel-impregnating varnish insulation systems. This comparison shows that this is a convenient functional test method that can be correlated with the results of a more complicated motor test program."
"A method is described for determining the effect of thermal aging on the shearing modulus of flexible sheet insulations by nondestructive tests using a torsion pendulum technique. The test sample, in tape form, is simple and easily prepared. Shearing modulus of the material is determined with the tape functioning as the stressed element in a simple torsion pendulum. Equipment for sample preparation and testing is inexpensive and compact, allowing investigations of many materials with minimum expense and effort. The data obtained by this method of test are of particular value and interest in determining the effect of time and temperature on an important mechanical property of flexible sheet materials. Since tests may be made as a function of aging on a given sample, the technique is very useful in establishing deterioration rates of the shearing modulus for a given insulation. Data have been obtained upon materials of widely different temperature classifications in order to demonstrate the usefulness of the technique."
"When applying magnetic amplifiers to position-indicating synchro-transmission systems, achievement of an extremely small zero drift is of paramount importance. It is well known that zero-drift errors caused by actual deviations from perfect symmetry of the saturable-reactor and rectifier components of magnetic-amplifier push-pull circuits may be reduced to certain specified values by using proper testing procedures for grading and matching of these components. However, limitation of such errors to sufficiently small values still represents a difficult problem in the design and production of high-performance magnetic servo amplifiers. Application of 2-phase induction motors in connection with special circuit arrangements offers the possible elimination of asymmetry zero-drift errors by supplying the magnetic-amplifier circuit from a magnetic frequency multiplier producing an exact multiple of the frequency of the a-c line feeding directly both the line phase of the motor and the synchro generator of the error-detecting system. In this case, even with nonsymmetrical characteristics of the saturable-reactor and rectifier components, operation of the motor under no-signal conditions will be inherently independent of changes in magnitude and frequency of the a-c line voltage, changes in ambient temperature, etc., with regard to the magnetic amplifier. Application of a higher frequency carrier for supplying the magnetic servo amplifier offers other advantages: its operation becomes more efficient and its speed of response is correspondingly increased. Actually, the possibility of using smaller sized saturable-reactor elements may compensate somewhat for the necessity of additional components of the magnetic frequency multiplier."
"IN THIS paper results are presented from field tests made in March 1954 on the 100-megawatt ignitron rectifier station at the Robert P. Patterson plant, Arkadelphia, Ark., of the Reynolds Metals Company. Power from the rectifier station is used in the electrolytic reduction of aluminum, and all of the power is consumed on one aluminum potline. This is the largest concentration of d-c power on a single potline in this country."
"WITH present-day rapid transportation requirements for passengers and commodities, with increasing numbers of highway freight-carrying vehicles, and with vehicles for pleasure-driving within the economic reach of nearly everyone, the need for nonstop express superhighways has become most urgent. Many of these highways have been constructed and are in operation, and many more are in process of construction or in the planning stages."
"Band-pass filters have been developed to provide for simultaneous application to a single antenna of two or more radio transmitters and/or receivers operating in the 900-megacycle (mc) range. By multiplexing transmitters or multiplexing receivers, or by diplexing a transmitter and receiver, considerable saving can be realized in equipment cost for multichannel radio systems. Filters consist of one or more sections of coaxial transmission line in tandem, adjusted for the desired degree of selectivity. In addition, filters are used to provide preselection and harmonic suppression where separate antennas are used for each transmitter and receiver."
"PROBLEMS of color deficiency have been associated with color photography and magazine printing for many years and, more recently, with color television. The development of the additive and subtractive color theories in which the reproducing primaries are related to the spectral sensitivites of the 3-color-separation photographs, has been described by Hardy and Wurzburg, Jr.1 A basic relation between the additive and subtractive contributions of the common printing process for a 3-color process was published in the same year.2 The equations derived relate the transmissions of the 3-color-separation photographs to a function of the amounts of the inks and their tristimulus values. With the daily production of millions of magazine issues in the United States using a fourth (black) ink, compared to the smaller editions in Europe for which these equations apply, a modification to the equations was necessary to include the effect of the black ink used in the high-speed printing methods in this country. These final equations for color correction were published in 1948.3 Where V is the vector of the red (R), green (G), and blue (B) tristimulus values of a color and the subscripts of V are the tristimulus values for the paper, full inks and full over prints of inks, the equation for the percentage of cyan (c), magenta (m) and yellow (y) inks is"
"THE UNION of South Africa and the neighboring mandated territory of South-West Africa occupy an area of about 800,000 square miles at the southern tip of Africa, about a quarter the area of the United States. It is a land of vast mineral wealth, and the world's chief source of gold and diamonds. Exceptionally rapid industrial development has characterized its cities during the past 20 years."
"CALCULATION of instantaneous and sustained current resulting from d-c faults on a power rectifier is extremely cumbersome. Certain idealized cases have been treated analytically, an important factor in establishing and understanding the circuit action. The analytical treatment also provides a necessary check on results obtained by other methods."
"THE revision of the present temperature classification of insulating materials as in AIEE Standard No. 11 seems increasingly necessary to accommodate insulation application practice and apparatus temperatures to the higher temperature at which some of the newer synthetic materials seem to be safely operable. It has been the goal of the Working Group on the Evaluation of the Thermal Stability of Insulating Materials which was set up in the Basic Science Subcommittee on Dielectrics to develop acceptable standard methods of evaluating the thermal stability of insulating materials. Such methods should put any revision of the present standards onto a rational and conservative basis."
"A procedure developed at the Naval Research Laboratory to evaluate the thermal aging properties of magnet wire is presented. The method adopts a coil specimen and subjects it to such stresses as are experienced by the insulation system of a motor. The various factors which influence the aging properties of magnet wire are investigated. Aging data collected by this procedure are presented for a number of standard magnet wires."
"ALTHOUGH magnetic amplifiers have been used as audio amplifiers, the necessity of generating the high carrier frequency has made their use impractical. The objection to the use of rotating machinery to produce this carrier is the mechanical problem introduced by moving parts, while the use of the vacuum-tube oscillator as a high-frequency source introduces the disadvantages of fragility, short life, and increased maintenance problems. Although switching transistors associated with saturable reactors can be used to produce a high-frequency carrier, problems of performance and reliability arise because of the early stage of development."
"INTENSIVE experimental work on dielectric phenomena in liquids has been done during the last 40 years. There is considerable interest on the engineer's part in obtaining reliable information about the dielectric properties of liquids, especially of commercial oil, used as insulation and as a cooling medium for transformers, circuit breakers and much other electrical apparatus. Many valuable experimental results have been obtained for dielectric strength, corona, dielectric losses and other dielectric properties of commercial oil.1‾5 In connection with the first-mentioned problem, that of the dielectric strength or oil, numerous details have been carefully studied: for example, the influence of electrode geometry, the rate of voltage rise, humidity, dissolved gases and different kinds of contamination. However, as Whitehead has mentioned,6 “Breakdown in liquids could readily become a compendium of unrelated observations” because very little was known about the physical background of this field."
"OIL IS the major electrical insulation component of large high-voltage transformers. It must withstand, free of corona, the severe short-time electrical stresses imposed during factory test or abnormal service conditions, as well as the less severe normal-service stresses of long duration. It follows that best insulation design demands precise knowledge not only of the stresses imposed on the oil during test and operation, but also a sound understanding of the oil's ability to withstand successfully the stresses under a wide variety of adverse conditions."
"The results are presented of a study of some of the electrical and thermal properties of mixtures of helium and sulfur-hexafluoride which are compared with the pure gases: air, hydrogen, helium, and sulfur-hexafluoride. It is shown that the addition of relatively small amounts of sulfur-hexafluoride to helium will result in an electric strength greater than that of air and of hydrogen. The thermal properties of such mixtures are nearly as good as hydrogen. The mixture is attractive as a cooling and insulating medium for both static and rotating machines. Such a mixture is very safe whereas hydrogen presents an explosive hazard. Permeation losses through metal containers are much less than for hydrogen."
"THE combination of transistors and transformers constructed of square hysteresis loop material has produced much useful circuitry outside of the realm of magnetic amplifiers per se. In this paper a highly efficient and extremely precise converter for transforming direct to alternating current, yielding a square-wave output whose frequency is proportional to the d-c input voltage, will be described. From among the many uses of this converter, the following applications will be discussed: 1. a transducer for telemetering systems, and 2. an integrator which has found application as an analogue to digital converter."
"ALTHOUGH considerable work has been done on the operation of adjustable-speed d-c motors with armature power supplied by thyratrons1 and by metallic rectifiers controlled with adjustable transformers,2,3 there is little information available on the use of magnetic amplifiers for this purpose. For this reason, an analytical and experimental study was made of the steady-state operation of a d-c motor with armature power supplied through metallic rectifiers and controlled by saturable reactors or magnetic amplifiers. More specifically, the speed-torque characteristics of the motor were determined for the various control methods and, in particular, the effectiveness of simple feedback connections and the use of external armature-circuit inductance was ascertained in improving the speed regulation."
"THREE-PHASE busses comprised of 120-degree-angle conductors, as shown in Fig. 1, possess certain very desirable electrical-mechanical characteristics. Thus, they can be closely nested to the end that the reactance per unit length of bus, and thus the voltage drop per unit length of bus, are much smaller than on other shaped busses of similar current-carrying capacity. Again, 120-degree-angle conductors have considerable mechanical rigidity with which to withstand short-circuit forces. Finally, their shape enables an open, compact construction which simplifies ventilation and heat-dissipation problems, minimizes the space required for installation, and provides easy tap-off to individual loads."
"An electronic instrument is described which automatically determines the resultant polarization of two superimposed elliptically polarized waves when the polarization of the individual components is known. In addition, a study of the effect of ground pulse contamination on polarization data obtained by sounding the ionosphere is presented. The study serves to demonstrate the usefulness of the instrument."
"A RELIABLE and convenient system has been devised for measuring large numbers of specimens to detect changes in dielectric constant and dissipation factor due to exposure to controlled conditions of temperature and humidity. A group of four plastic materials consisting of a molded mica-filled phenolic (MFE), a glass silicone laminate (GSG), polytetrafluoroethylene (PF) and polyethylene (PE), were selected for study over the frequency range from 60 cycles per second (cps) to 100 megacycles per second (mc). Measurements of alternating current surface and volume conduction losses, and d-c surface and volume conductivity were made, along with measurements of dielectric strength and flashover strength.1 The effect of humidity and temperature on these electrical quantities was a major objective in an extensive program. Earlier work at The Johns Hopkins University had greatly stimulated the present interest in the measurement of surface conductivity.2,3 Although the earlier efforts were made with direct current only, it was generally considered that the work could be extended to the a-c case through the use of a high-voltage Schering bridge. This has been accomplished, data having been obtained at 60 and 1,000 cps. Such measurements are possible with a high-voltage Schering bridge up to 100,000 cps. Using other types of networks, the surface measurements were also taken at 2, 18, and 100 mc. The volume determinations of dielectric constant and dissipation factor were made at the same frequencies. Perhaps the most stringent requirement met in these tasks was that all specimens had to be mounted in holders and measured on location without being disturbed during their 6-month exposures to various conditions of temperature and humidity."
"IN THIS investigation, an attempt is made to obtain an interpretation of phenomena and also to serve practical ends. Since laboratory tests are preferably simple and of a controlled nature, the results are very limited when weighed against the multitudinous considerations of field applications. After earlier exploration, in which both materials and techniques were given careful scrutiny, four solid dielectrics were chosen for the present study.1 ‾3 Failure of practical dielectric structures in most cases is clearly through a volume of solid or else across the surface at an interface. Therefore, values of electric stress necessary to produce puncture constitute many of the compiled data in this paper. Likewise, flashover voltage is given for the materials as determined from the use of a fixed structure in air. The frequency range was from 60 cycles per second (cps) to 100 megacycles per second (mc), and the effects of temperature and humidity were studied."
"IN THE last decade, the technology of magnetic core materials has advanced such that magnetic cores are being used in many electronic applications over and above conventional use in transformers. Take, for example, magnetic amplifiers, computers, television components, to mention a few."
"MOISTURE is one of the main foes of electric apparatus. In liquid-filled apparatus such as transformers, excessive moisture in the liquid can be a reflection of a similar situation in the solid insulation. The problem of detecting accurately these minute quantities of water in the liquid is an extremely important one and has received considerable attention in the past."
"THE Central Laboratory of the New England Power Service Company maintains the watt-hour standards for the New England Electric System. Until very recently, the methods and equipment used were similar to those found in many utility laboratories. Primary standards were standard cells, which, through potentiometers, volt boxes and shunts, established the calibration of laboratory standard wattmeters. The wattmeters, in turn, served as transfer instruments from d-c reference to a-c working values. A good-grade pendulum clock served as time standard."
"IN APRIL of 1953 the Mississippi Valley Gas Company, whose headquarters are located in Jackson, Miss., approached commercial representatives of the Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company concerning the provision of a telemetering system between their dispatcher's office in Jackson and 17 points in the central and northwestern section of the state to which natural gas was being furnished through their distribution lines. Up until this time individual meters located at these outlying points were read by employees stationed in the general area and the readings were telephoned to the dispatcher in Jackson. While this procedure was originally acceptably satisfactory, a steady growth in the number of residential customers and industries using gas was making the distribution problem progressively more acute. The more frequent readings of the outlying meters required not only increased the cost of the meter reading but necessitated the adoption of a more speedy and efficient system. It was proposed that such a system be obtained by the use of telemetering equipment operating over telegraph facilities."
"IN THE course of designing and manufacturing electric cables, the need for shielding frequently arises, sometimes because of inductive interference and sometimes because of high-voltage considerations. This discussion is confined to relatively low-voltage cables where inductive interference is the problem."
"A HIGH-VOLTAGE bushing which successfully sustains repeated application of 60-cycle and impulse test voltages may not be adequate for prolonged operation at rated line-to-ground voltage. Methods to evaluate bushings at voltages slightly in excess of operating voltages have therefore been devised. The techniques developed have been used to evaluate the life characteristics of the solid compound core type of bushing and to provide a routine quality control of bushing production."
"Conformal mapping leads to improved models for the electrolytic tank and similar analogues of fields encountered in engineering problems. The effect of tank boundaries can be eliminated and regions of special interest can be greatly magnified. Conformal mapping has a validity more general than is commonly realized. It can, for example, be applied to the construction of models of rotationally symmetric fields."
"IN THE modern telegraph system, signals are transmitted over various trunk facilities derived from wire lines or radio relay systems. The trunk telegraph channels furnish facilities between a number of switching centers located at strategic points throughout the country. These centers then distribute traffic to the local points of destination. In addition, various other services must be accommodated by suitable network configurations. These services comprise such arrangements as are involved in leased network circuits, private switching systems, etc. It is necessary that flexibility be maintained in this complex network of circuits so that circuit patching and routing may be accomplished without making undue alignment changes in the circuits themselves."
"THIS equipment makes possible the accurate determination of dynamic magnetic characteristics needed for advanced magnetic amplifier design. The hysteresis loop and the time functions of H, B, and dB/dt can be either measured point by point or continuously recorded on an x-y recorder by means of an automatic electronic a-c compensator which transforms the a-c signal for any given time instant into an equivalent direct voltage. An over-all accuracy of 1 per cent is possible for operating frequencies between 50 and 1,000 cycles per second (cps). The instrument is valuable not only for studying the dynamic characteristics of magnetic materials but also for the evaluation of other nonlinear circuit elements like rectifiers, transistors, and ferroelectric capacitors."
"An analysis has been made of the factors producing temperature error in a dragmagnet eddy-current disk type of tachometer indicator. A new design for tachometer compensation is described and test results are presented."
"TO IMPROVE the characteristics of cores for magnetic amplifiers, it is necessary for the metallurgist to isolate and measure those properties under his control as a material producer. The performance of a completed core depends on many factors, not all of which reflect actual magnetic properties of the core material itself. Many methods1‾5 have been used successfully to measure core performance under production conditions for matching and grading; similarly, several excellent papers3,4,6,7 have been presented relating core performance to magnetic-amplifier design. While these dynamic methods are most valuable to the core producer and designer, their very advantage in including all the factors contributing to core performance has proved to be a handicap to one seeking to control factors which can be attributed only to the core material. A wealth of experience has been accumulated in recent years relating metallurgical factors such as chemical composition and processing to d-c magnetic properties. D-c magnetic tests have been widely used to investigate material variations because of their accuracy, reproducibility and the fact that they are unaffected by eddy currents. For example, to study the influence of an objectionable impurity it is important to control or, better, to eliminate other effects such as thickness and volume resistivity. The d-c test accomplishes this because it will reflect the changes caused by the chemical impurity without being influenced by other factors."
"The gain of the resonant-circuit dielectric amplifier can be obtained directly from the slope of a characteristic which is called the tuning curve. When the carrier voltage across the nonlinear capacitor is small, the shape of the tuning curve can be computed by linear circuit analysis. This paper considers the shape of the tuning curve when the carrier voltage across the nonlinear capacitor is so large that nonlinear resonance is encountered."
"DIE casting has been aptly termed the shortest distance between raw material and finished part. It is defined as the process of producing accurately dimensioned, sharply defined, smooth-surfaced parts by forcing molten metal under pressure into metal dies or molds. The term is also used for the resulting casting. Aluminum parts produced by the die-casting process are used extensively in all kinds of applications throughout the Bell System plant. Attempting to cover its many uses would be too great an undertaking here. However, its use in low-cost carrier telephone equipment is a story in itself and is the subject of this paper."
"IN A paper presented in 1954,1 the analysis of nonlinear coupled circuits was made by the method of high order phase planes or phase space. The simultaneous differential equations are first combined into one higher order differential equation and then solved by a method outlined in the previous paper and illustrated by two examples. However, when there are nonlinearities existing in both loops of, say, a 2-loop coupled circuit, it would be difficult to apply the procedure given previously. An alternative is here presented by working with the set of differential equations as originally given and solving several phase plane equations simultaneously. The new method may be called the method of solving simultaneous phase plane equations, in contrast with the method of solving one higher order phase space equation. This method has the advantage that nonlinearities may exist in two or more original differential equations. In a 2-loop circuit for example, there may be a nonlinear resistor in the primary loop and a nonlinear inductor in the secondary loop. Using examples I and II in the previous paper, the relations between the primary and secondary currents and between their first derivatives are shown. Example III gives the results of phase plane trajectories for a circuit with nonlinearities in both the primary and the secondary loops. Example IV shows that for a coupled circuit with a nonlinear capacitor in the secondary loop (the nonlinear capacitance being a function of voltage) the primary and secondary currents can be correlated by one equation in the phase space and solved simultaneously."
"SHANNON'S original paper suggesting a modification of the classical Boolean algebra of symbolic logic to a form of switching algebra led to the development among switching and computer designers of many special techniques.1‾3 Recent interest in the field is rapidly developing methods well within the reach of the occasional switching engineer who finds a moderately complex relay circuit necessary to the operation or sequencing of another design. Reference is made to these papers for a brief summary of the binary nomenclature and operators of switching algebra.4,5 The approach suggested here assures the designer that he is manipulating an adequate number of relays, and provides a pictorial work sheet that keeps track of all contact positions. The work sheet permits easy recognition of possible holding circuit difficulties. Negation is proposed as the switching-algebra operator to denote shunt contacts, and is consistent with the mapping procedure."
"This paper describes a sine function resistor of rather unusual design. A linear resistance card bent to circular shape about an eccentric frame of very simple construction is employed to obtain a resistance variation that is within very close limits of true sine values. This resistor should find application in certain computer circuits, particularly in those of the balanced-bridge type. The same theory is also applied to the function (1 - sin φ)i (i = 1/2, 1)."
"THE relatively narrow band frequency modulation (FM) communication receivers utilized in mobile communication are subject to interference caused by impulse-type signals received in the antenna. Most of these signals are from automobile ignition systems, from both the vehicle containing the radio and surrounding vehicles. Such impulses are also obtained from a variety of other electrical equipment. These impulses shock-excite the selective circuits in the receiver and produce a transient response from these selective circuits which interferes with the intelligence to be received from the desired information signals."
"THE differential transformer is a transducer type of pickup in which mechanical displacement is converted into a proportional electric output by varying the mutual inductance between a primary winding and two secondary windings. The effect is a differential one so that motion of the core or rotor in one direction produces an increase in induced voltage in one secondary winding and a decrease in the other. A reversal of the direction of motion produces a reversal of the direction of change of secondary voltages. There are three basic types of differential transformers: 1. The mutual inductor type in which the flux linkage between the primary and secondary windings is varied by angular or linear displacement of the primary winding relative to the secondaries. 2. The type in which the coupling between the primary and two secondaries is differentially varied by linear or angular positioning of a short-circuited winding. 3. The movable core transformer (MCT) in which the flux linkages between the primary and each of the two secondaries is established by the position of the magnetic core. In the most common form, this device consists of a solenoid-type coil and a solid or laminated form of simple bar core mechanically linked to the primary measuring element."
"FILM programs now constitute a very large percentage of television (TV) air time. One network alone uses film at the rate of about 9,000,000 feet per month. Many of the major programs are recorded, for reasons of convenience, timing, or historical record. Some of the smaller stations have begun their operations using nothing but recorded material for all programs."
"THIS article presents the method used for engineering the multistage diode logical function circuitry for a special-purpose computer employing exclusively semiconductor devices. Although the techniques used have been largely influenced by the devices available or being developed for the rest of the system, it is felt that these devices are typical of the general type of transistor device which may be expected in the near future. The methods to be described are partly graphical: no assumption of constant forward diode resistance is made. In this way, they differ from analysis methods based on Thévenin's theorem."
"IN RECENT years, increasing use has been made of gate-type lockout circuits in telephone switching systems. When such circuits are employed, a certain amount of delay occurs before service is given to any of the components connected to the gate; as a matter of fact one of the purposes of the gate lockout circuit is to provide a reasonably equitable distribution of delays where delays are unavoidable. To the writer's knowledge there has been no analysis published on the congestion thus introduced by gate operation, and in view of its importance in present-day circuit technique a tentative analysis is attempted in the following."
"THE development and testing of torque motors for precision gyroscopes require the accurate measurement of the small torques developed. These are stall torques, and are measured at various angular positions of the rotor with respect to the stator. The magnitude of these torques is generally less than 50,000 dyne-centimeters (dyne-cm)."
"RECENT papers have indicated a strong interest in the operation of magnetic amplifiers with carrier frequencies higher than the common power frequencies of 60 and 400 cycles.1,2 Much work has been carried out, e.g., on magnetic frequency multipliers that would be a possible source of power at higher frequencies.3,4 It is generally known that increased magnetic amplifier performance can be achieved by using higher carrier frequencies, but the exact advantages have not been clearly defined in the literature."
"INDICATING or recording frequency meters in the 1-per-cent commercial frequency class use various circuits to obtain their indication. In all these circuits the instrument mechanism forms part of the circuit. The cross-coil type, the moving-iron type and the vibrating-reed type all have mechanisms that are built specifically for these meters, and these mechanisms have very little other commercial uses."
"THE supply frequency of magnetic amplifiers has been restricted largely to the readily available 60-cycle-per-second (cps) and 400-cps power sources. Recent developments in high-frequency power supplies which have ruggedness and reliability commensurate with magnetic amplifiers have made it practical to operate magnetic amplifiers at supply frequencies of over 400 cps. Several papers have described improved frequency multiplier techniques1-3 which can be used to supply power for magnetic amplifiers in the audio range."
"THE ever-increasing complexity of telephone and telegraph switching circuitry in the Bell System reached a stage, about 10 years ago, where many of the conventional type of schematic circuit drawings presented difficulties in training of personnel and maintenance. It then became necessary, for the more complex circuits, to prepare and maintain a separate series of drawings especially streamlined for training purposes and for aiding maintenance. However, the preparation of two sets of drawings for these cases and the necessity for keeping them in step as improvements and changes were added was costly. To meet this problem the new type of circuit drawing described in this paper was developed. It is designed for easy understanding and incorporates in a single package the basic circuit information required for manufacture, installation, training, maintenance, and engineering analysis."
"A new 2-element single-disk polyphase meter has been designed which incorporates a novel method of compensation to correct for interelement interference and a new approach to the problem of providing means for calibrating the meter. The method used to provide compensation for interelement interference and the design of the adjusters for calibrating light load and phase balance are described."
"Various means have been available for many years to measure electrostatic potentials with ever increasing sensitivity and with decreasing current requirements. Instruments such as the electroscope or the common laboratory electrostatic voltmeter have been developed to the point where they operate reliably, with an input resistance of the order of 1016 ohms and higher, but in general these extremely sensitive instruments cannot conveniently be used to record potential over a period of time, thus requiring the continuous presence of an operator. A type of electrostatic voltmeter is described which is designed to record potentials as low as 1 volt d-c with an input resistance of 1014 ohms using an electrostatic generator to provide an a-c signal proportional to voltage, and a simple audio amplifier requiring only a commercial 1-milliampere recording meter in the way of auxiliary equipment."
"MATHIEU'S equation ${d^{2}y \\over dt^{2}} + (b - 2q \\cos 2t)y = 0 \\eqno{\\hbox{(1)}}$ is gradually becoming a very important equation in physics and engineering. It apparently first appeared in a paper by Mathieu1 on the vibration of an elliptic membrane. However, since that time it has made its appearance in many practical problems in the fields of mechanics, electricity and magnetism, sound, etc. Many such examples will be found in McLachlan's book on Mathieu functions.2"
"The Hall effect in a semiconductor is utilized to measure the flux density in the air gap of a rotating machine under transient conditions of starting and loading. This method offers several advantages over the conventional exploring-coil generator. Measurements of the flux density in a synchronous converter were made to demonstrate its applicability."
"TEN years of planning and 2 1/2 years of actual installation work recently came to completion when the Hawaiian Telephone Company placed new radio equipment in operation on the interisland circuit between the islands of Oahu and Lanai. This completed the entire network which now provides service to six major islands of the Hawaiian chain."
"PULLMAN space reservation tickets are now being rapidly transmitted from one place to another by Western Union's new Ticketfax system which employs facsimile transmitters and recorders designed especially for the purpose; see Fig. 1. Ticketfax is equipment engineered and designed by Western Union as a part of a reservation system developed by the Pennsylvania and New York Central Railroads."
"MAGNETIC amplifiers for servo control applications are becoming widely used and seemingly have a greater future ahead because of their inherent reliability and promise of small weight and volume."
"THE development of the selenium rectifier has provided design engineers with a reliable, maintenance-free source of d-c power. However, certain inherent thermal characteristics of the device impose many limitations on its application. Normally, the operation of the rectifier in ambient temperatures above 45 degrees centigrade (C) requires that the power output be derated to protect the unit or that additional equipment be provided for forced cooling. Operation at temperatures above 90 C severely reduces the life expectancies of the selenium cells in spite of the precautionary measures just mentioned."
"THE INFLUENCE of chemical composition and structure on the mechanical properties and thermal stability of polymers has long been of great interest to the chemist. An outgrowth of such work in the General Electric Research Laboratory has been the synthesis of a completely organic polymer of the polyester class, a polymer shown by tests to be eminently suitable as a thin-film magnet wire insulation. Wire insulated with this polymer, which will be referred to as Alkanex * wire, possesses excellent initial properties important in manufacturing electrical equipment. Its thermal stability is such that it can be used at class B, 130 degrees centigrade (C), and higher operating temperatures in long-lived electric apparatus."
"MATRICES were introduced into mathematics nearly a century ago when in 1857 the eminent English mathematician Cayley published his fundamental paper, “A Memoir on the Theory of Matrices.” 1 Cayley demonstrated that by the use of matrices, the system of n linear algebraic equations"
"TRANSISTORS are frequently described by impedance matrices. For good physical reasons the currents are taken as independent variables, i.e."
"THE PROBLEM of determining the possible I closed circuits available in a situation in which n terminals are interconnected in some fashion by unilateral branches is one of considerable importance in a number of diverse fields. It may be regarded as that of a topological characterization of a linear network, with specific branch gains between terminals; in such a case, the system may be designated (see Fig. 1) by the branch gain or transmission factor matrix A = (aij), in terms of which the terminal inputs Ei and terminal “voltages” Vi are related by"
"A PRECISION approach to network analysis is obtained through the use of network topology and matrix algebra. A study of the mathematical properties of the matrices resulting from such an approach brings to light many interesting facts. In particular, a study of the matrices arising in network analysis that contain linear factors in the lines of the matrix yields a number of interesting and useful results. The method of approach in this paper is to first develop a group of theorems setting forth various properties of matrices that arise in the m (mesh) and n (node) systems of equations. Then these properties are used to prove an additional group of theorems relating to a matrix inverse which occurs in the solution of any of these systems. Finally the results of these theorems are related to the solutions of the network equations and to the networks themselves. A discussion is then presented of the application of these results in network design, network analysis, and network correction."
"The Transfer Function in Terms of the General Circuit Parameters"
"ALTHOUGH various methods of neutralization have been employed for several years in vacuum-tube circuits,1 the unilateralization technique was introduced only recently. This technique is based on a study of the linear, active, four-terminal network theory, which has become increasingly important in the design of transistor circuitry. Although neutralized circuits are usually treated as conventional balanced-bridge circuits, they can be analyzed more systematically as network problems. This paper analyzes both neutralization and unilateralization circuitry by means of the four-terminal network theory, and clarifies the similarities and the differences between the two types of circuits. Typical examples of neutralized and unilateralized vacuum-tube and transistor amplifiers are also given."
"THIS PAPER considers a new matrix factorization method for the synthesis of RLC two terminal-pair-networks. Equivalent matrices suitable for the synthesis of RLC ladder and parallel ladder networks are developed by linear transformations of matrix multiplication. The application of the method is demonstrated through the synthesis of a general minimum-phase transmission function as ladder networks 1‾4 and a general nonminimum-phase transmission function as parallel ladder networks. The advantage of the present method is that superfluous elements in the realized ladder networks are reduced considerably. Furthermore, an unbalanced form can be obtained for realizing a nonminimum-phase transmission function which has generally been realized in the lattice form.1, 5&#x0203E;7"
"IN THIS PAPER we shall be concerned first with multiple-output combinational relay switching circuits, that is, circuits which may be represented symbolically as in Fig. 1. The n coils X1, X2, ..., Xn determine respectively the conditions x1, x2, ..., xn of the contacts in the box. We call x1, x2, ..., xn the input variables of the circuit. The output variables are the interconnections between the terminals 1, 2, ..., p resulting from energization of certain of the coils. It is assumed that the coils are controlled independently of the circuitry in the box. It is this absence of feedback that makes the circuit “combinational.”"
"IN THE PAST, great precision or breadth in techniques for establishing the equations for electrical networks has not been of too great importance since the large scale use of systems of equations for computations or even for theoretical investigations has not been of major interest. At the present time, however, two factors are appearing which alter this situation. First, computers are making it entirely feasible to design and study, by way of very extensive numerical calculations, electrical networks of considerable complexity. The effective use of computers requires that the defining equations must be formed with precision and complete assurance. Second, the complexity of the transient response problems (analysis and synthesis) now being encountered makes it imperative that the broadest and most general formulation of network equations be established."
"A FOUR-(OR THREE-) terminal network is conveniently represented by its transmission matrix, which is taken as the matrix A, defined by:"
"AN IMPORTANT aspect of transistor switching and pulse circuits is the exact manner in which the transistor switches from one state to another. Generally one state will involve transistor operation in or near saturation and the other state will involve transistor cutoff. For simple circuits, such as elementary pulse amplifiers, the switching action is under direct control of the input and is readily understandable.1 The situation is not as simple for relaxation type of circuits such as multivibrators, flip-flops, and blocking oscillators. For these circuits, the input serves as a trigger to raise the circuit into an unstable region of operation. The instability is due to a positive feedback circuit arrangement, and the regenerative process which results produces the change of state of the transistors."
"A CONVENIENT starting point for any consideration of the transistor as a circuit element is the adoption of an equivalent circuit. Much has been written on this subject, and many different equivalent circuits proposed. Since an equivalent circuit which specified the transistor over the whole possible operating range would be impractically complex, it is necessary to make approximations, thereby restricting the region of usefulness of the equivalent circuit."
"SMALL-SIGNAL parameters are very useful for determining the electric-circuit performance of a transistor. However, for a junction transistor these parameters are not independent of frequency as is now fairly well known. One type of frequency variation in the parameters occurs because of the feedback mechanism and the effect of collector capacity as described by J. M. Early.1 A second type of frequency variation occurs because of the diffusion process by which junction transistors operate. Frequency variations of parameters due to the diffusion process for the ideal one-dimensional model introduced by Shockley have been calculated independently by the writer,2 by J. M. Early3 and by H. O. Johnson.4 Addition of a constant base-spreading resistance to the base lead of the one-dimensional model completes the over-all theoretical model commonly used. In practice, this model applies fairly well to alloy, or fused junction, transistors.6 On the other hand, for grown-junction transistors, the distributed nature of the transistor parameters in the transverse direction of the base region must be taken into account. Analysis of such a two-dimensional model6 has shown that under simplifying conditions such a transistor may be represented by the usual one-dimensional ideal model plus a complex frequency-dependent base impedance in series with the base lead. Hence, the grown-junction transistor can be represented by the same type of model as that used for the fused-junction transistor, but with the constant base-spreading resistance of the latter model replaced by a more general complex base impedance. In practice, this two-dimensional model applies fairly well to grown-junction transistors having a base connection that approximates a line contact. For grown-junction transistors in which the base connection is not a line type of contact, the base impedance may be partly resistive and partly complex."
"IT IS well known that the variation of the transistor parameters with the dc bias conditions may be employed to control the gain of a transistor amplifier stage. There are, however, many applications that require a gain that is variable in accordance with an external voltage, with the added restraint that the input and output impedances shall be maintained approximately constant. One of these applications is the broad-band IF amplifier. The design of wide-band transistor amplifiers usually requires an effective load resistance of small value compared to the output resistance of the transistor. If this type of stage is operated at a fixed collector supply voltage and is gain-controlled by variation of the emitter current, then to a first approximation the output resistance is negligibly large"
"IN THIS PAPER the concept of a minimum weighted squared error that has often been used in curve fitting1 is applied to a filter operating upon an input signal. The filter output is required to be a weighted least-squared-fit to its input. The steady-state error of the filter in reproducing its input is then zero when the input signal is contained in the ensemble of the chosen. fitting functions. The statistical aspects of the problem2 are subordinated to the requirement of zero steady state error to a proper input. The separate provinces of time-independent and time-varying filters in this sort of problem are defined; a slight generalization leads to a solution in the time-varying case. The proper domain of nonlinear least-squares filters is pointed out, but no general solution is given."
"THE ANALYSIS or synthesis of bandpass networks using plots of the singularities of their transfer functions 1‾3 can often be shortened and simplified by using a suitable logarithmic transformation of the complex-frequency s-plane which permits a simple approximate calculation of the transfer function. This approximation is good for over-all-bandwidth ratios of 2 to 1 or less as compared with a usable bandwidth ratio of 1.2 to 1 for the conventional narrow-band approximation. This transformation is not intended for use with an electrolytic tank, for which better methods have been described in the literature.4‾6 It does not have the power of certain conformai transformations7, 8 but is considerably simpler. Unlike the wide-band low-pass to bandpass transformation9 it is not limited to pole and zero patterns of particular symmetry. This approximation also has interesting properties as an aid in the factoring of network polynomials, as will be shown."
"IN RECENT developments of transmission systems use has been made of circuits with the so-called quantized feedback,1 in which the feedback path is actually closed only at a discrete set of time intervals, the feedback signal changing in a quantized manner. Another type of electronic circuit that could be included under the above classification, has been described in connection with analog computing technique.2"
"This section of each issue is devoted to a few rather extensive reviews of recent papers related to circuit theory and published in journals other than the PROCEEDINGS. Suggested titles and reprints of papers for review are invited by the committee."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The importance of the engineer in developing the art of communication is considered. The discussion includes his increasingly vital role from the 1880's up to the present time and an examination of future trends and responsibilities."
"One of the functions of the AIEE Planning and Co-ordination Committee is to “consider and advise on all questions arising with reference to Institute activities of all types, particularly those in which uncertainty, difference of opinion … may appear to exist.” It is to clarify the Institute's election procedure that this article was prepared."
"WITH a given armature and fixed number of turns per coil, the voltage between adjacent commutator bars and the conductor current are both inversely proportional to the number of parallel paths in the armature."
"Pulse-type fault analyzers are being used in greater numbers. Applications are not confined to power companies as oil companies now make use of them on their telephone lines. The installation of this type of instrument at most costs 10 per cent as much as the transient fault locator. Thus it can pay for itself as a result of a few outages."
"THE time function most useful in applying a magnetic amplifier to a closed-loop control system is the frequency response characteristic. This describes the action of the amplifier in terms of amplification and phase shift of a sinusoidal control voltage, which is varied in frequency aver some specified range. This digest describes the equipment and a technique that have been developed to measure these characteristics. An analytical expression for the transfer function of a full-wave self-saturating magnetic amplifier is proposed on the basis of experimental data."
"The new requirements affecting the use of portable electric equipment in the National Electrical Code, 1953 revision, are presented and discussed. Portable appliances, tools, and lighting equipment are included."
"The future of nuclear energy is of great interest. It is appraised here as to its “probable position” in the “foreseeable future” as compared with conventional power sources."
"In his address before the First General Assembly of Engineers Joint Council, the author examines our security position as regards “the communist world,” including the “technological race,” manpower, atomic energy, and nuclear power. A few suggestions are also made concerning a unity organization to represent the engineering profession."
"An essential tool of modern management is economic counsel, although only a minority of companies today seek advice in this field. Present day techniques based on knowledge and experience which are used by competent economists are presented."
"THIS investigation was made to study capture effect as it relates to narrow-band FM systems used in the power-line carrier field. Capture effect in FM systems is that phenomenon whereby the stronger of two signals increases its predominance over the weaker signal on the same frequency in a receiver, so that the weaker signal is eliminated from the receiver. The transition in control can be very sharp when one signal becomes even slightly stronger than the other signal. That is, a small differential in r-f input levels of the desired signal to the interfering signal results in a much higher ratio of signal to interference in the audio output. About 10 years ago, FM communication equipment was recommended for power-line carrier use with a major feature being that it possessed capture effect. This phenomenon supposedly would make it possible to work two channels back-to-back at the same station on the same frequency with less isolation between them than would be required for conventional AM channels. From the theoretical study and experimental investigation made by the author, it was concluded that very little if any capture effect was present in narrow-band equipment. This is also the conclusion reached by others in previously published literature.1,2"
"The joint committee of the engineering and scientific manpower commissions have studied the urgent problem regarding the inadequate supply of high school science teachers. A proposed plan of action has been formulated as an initial step towards improvement of present conditions."
"Reactor power plants can now be designed and operated so they present no greater danger to operating personnel than conventional power plants. They can also be shown to offer negligible danger to the surrounding geographical area. At present, the extremely conservative assumptions concerning the safety system necessitate a very complex design. As operating experience accumulates, it should be possible to simplify the design."
"The need for tone modulation of power line carrier channels is shown to arise from the necessity of conserving spectrum space. Different types of modulation are analyzed to show what frequencies actually are transmitted. The characteristics of carrier channels are discussed and the results of uneven attenuation and phase displacement over the transmission bandwidth are pointed out. Methods of improving carrier channel characteristics are included, as well as recommendations for selection of tone equipment to avoid the adverse effects of channel distortion."
"A LONG with the growth of power-line carrier communication and consequent crowding of the frequency spectrum between 40 and 200 kc, there has arisen the need for band-pass filters at the carrier receiver input to prevent adjacent channel interference. With FM transmission, performance required of the filters is as follows: 1. Must be adjustable to a frequency from 40 to 200 kc. 2. Maximum midband insertion loss not to exceed 9 db at 40 kc, nor 17 db at 200 kc, and to increase linearly from 40 to 200 kc. 3. Attenuation at frequencies ±8 kc from midband, 100 db minimum below midband loss. 4. Response at frequencies ±3 kc from midband to be within 5 db. 5. Maximum distortion 10 per cent (with 1,000-cycle audio and modulation index = 2.5) when tested with a FM receiver. 6. Response and distortion limits must not be exceeded over a range of temperature from -20 to +70 C, and at humidities up to 95 per cent."
"A method of developing mathematical systems of straight lines or simple curves to represent the performance of the ordinary d-c motor is presented. The study deals with both shunt and series motors. The developed motor equation enables an engineer to use such curves as references in his thinking when applying a motor to a particular situation."
"TESTS are developed to predict the behavior of a material in service. The purpose of the twist aging test is to accurately predict the life of a magnet-wire enamel-impregnating-varnish insulation system in service with a minimum expenditure of time, labor, material, and equipment. This is accomplished by using a number of easily constructed samples subjected to accelerated aging and evaluation.1"
"THE present demands for large unit ratings in 2-pole high-speed turbine generators have dictated that the field-winding conductor materials be unusually strong to withstand the various mechanical stresses applied during the operation of the machine. At the same time, high electrical conductivity must be maintained so that the material can be most efficiently utilized."
"The primary considerations for obtaining quality low-cost electrical maintenance are pointed out and the importance of technical and operating standards are stressed."
"A line of small plug-in units for digital computer systems is described. The unit plugs into a standard 32-contact receptacle; 15 units of these are contained in a subrack assembly. The subrack has self-contained power wiring and a switch for marginal checking. Logical connections are made on a panel by patch cords and miniature spring-loaded connectors."
"This article describes the major features of the Radio Corporation of America (RCA) 21-inch metal-envelope color kinescope, and discusses considerations involved in the choice of the size and construction used. Description of a new phosor application method and a discussion of a number of factors affecting register are included."
"MANY things have been done to check the spiralling transmission and distribution costs, such as use of higher voltages for transmission, rerating of existing equipment, and eliminating nonessentials. Possibilities were recognized in the use of aluminum prior to 1950, but plans for experimental installations were abandoned because of inability to clear up important design details."
"The AIEE Southern District Meeting will be held in St. Petersburg, Fla. April 13–15, 1955. The Soreno Hotel will serve as headquarters for the meeting and all technical sessions will be held there."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The 1955 AIEE Middle Eastern District Meeting will be held May 4–6, 1955, at the Deshler-Hilton Hotel in Columbus, Ohio. An outstanding technical program has been arranged, and a social program that includes luncheons, a smorgasbord, and dinner-dance. Novel inspection trips are expected to heighten interest in technical sessions. Friday, May 6, will also be Student Meeting Day, when the district prize paper contest will be held."
"Plans for the 1955 Summer General Meeting to be held June 27 to July 1 at the New Ocean House, Swampscott, Mass., are nearing completion. A broad informative program is assured and Mr. A. M. Bjontegard, chairman of the Trip Committee, reports that the following tours are scheduled:"
"The first of a series of meetings this year to commemorate the founding of The American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) was held February 16. Theme of the meeting was “The Engineer and the World of Communications.” The commemorative session was held in the McGraw-Hill Publishing Company auditorium. The ASME was founded 75 years ago, in the office of American Machinist, now a McGraw-Hill publication. In the afternoon, a panel, “The Engineer and His Communications,” was held at the Engineering Societies Building and was followed by a dinner at the Waldorf-Astoria. Various honors were conferred at the dinner. General society meetings during the remainder of the year at Stevens Institute of Technology and in the cities of Baltimore, Boston, and Chicago will be devoted to various facets of the broad theme “The Engineer in Our World” and his relation to education, government, science, and the world of commerce and industry."
"The 1955 National Telemetering Conference will take place May 18, 19, and 20 at the Hotel Morrison in Chicago, Ill. The conference, sponsored by AIEE, the Institute of Radio Engineers, Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences, and the Instrument Society of America, will feature a full program of technical papers and exhibits in the fields of: industrial telemetering, pickups and transducers, telemetering components, data processing, flight testing, multiplexing techniques, and new developments in telemetry and remote control."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Plans for a $60 million passenger terminal development at New York International Airport, a “Terminal City” of ten terminal buildings capable of accommodating 140 aircraft at one time, were made public by Bayard F. Pope, acting chairman of The Port of New York Authority, operator of the 5,000-acre airport. An innovation in airport design, the development will comprise an 11-city-block-long International Arrival Building with two adjacent Airline Wing Buildings, seven individual airline terminal buildings, and roadways, taxiways, aprons, and related facilities, all within a 655-acre central landscaped oval. The central terminal area is 105 acres larger than all of La Guardia Airport and three-fourths as large as Central Park."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"IT is customary in reviewing the entire subject of communication to start with the Greeks. I should prefer, however, to go back to a somewhat earlier period when the first prosimian, or whatever our ancestor may have been, climbed down out of the trees, began to use tools, and most notably began to apply his curiosity with practical effect. For many reasons he became the progenitor of the dominant race, but one powerful reason was that he learned to communicate and to use symbols for the purpose. From that time an individual's struggle with his environment was based, not on his own limited experience alone, but on the far sounder basis of the experience of his fellows and his forebears. All that is called civilization resulted from the fact that man learned to record, transmit, and consult the record of his perceptions and his reasoning about their interrelationships. At first he did this roughly and inadequately with a small vocabulary. Later he turned to more and more elaborate means of communication."
"The word “automation” has become one of the most overused, and probably misused, words in our modern vocabulary. To the electrical engineer, however, it means the advancement of electrical living as we progress from manual methods to mechanization, and thence to automation. To America as a whole it means more goods for more people at less cost."
"Flight plans and weather information are transmitted and received automatically over teletypewriter lines. Messages are filed in a magnetic drum storage and can be found by means of their contents. Any questionable or obviously erroneous message is printed out for review."
"THE INTRODUCTION OF THE FLUORESCENT LAMP in 1939, provided the lighting profession with a new and versatile type of light source. The wide public acceptance of fluorescent lighting has been due to its inherent advantages such as high efficiency, low brightness ratios, better light distribution, and a large selection of lamp sizes and colors. The lighting industry with its innumerable lighting problems may require new sizes of fluorescent lamps, improved colors, and lamps with special brightness characteristics to serve in new applications. The need for fluorescent lamps in new lengths, diameters, and wattages will continue; however, it is known that many new and existing applications could be given additional flexibility if the brierhtness of the lamp were controllable."
"IN converting a part of its distribution system from 4 kv to 13 kv, the use of steel-reinforced aluminum cable (ACSR) for main feeder line construction for the first time was decided upon by the Indianapolis Power and Light Company. As with other types of conductors, it was necessary to limit the number of sizes to reduce stocking problems."
"The electric equipment required for aluminum anodizing is described together with background information on the processes themselves. The advantages in simplicity and increased production obtained by the use of current-limit voltage-regulated motor-generator control are outlined."
"A direct-reading blood-count meter is described which yields results independent of particle size and coloration, rate of sampling, and quantity sampled. Errors from zeroing, changing sensitivity, and changing illumination are eliminated by a grid-current ratio amplifier."
"FROM TIME IMMEMORIAL man must have been conscious of gentle mysterious attractions which accompanied the rubbing of certain surfaces. Then, in a single decade of the 1700's, there was awakened from its long sleep what proved to be a giant bent on dealing startling shocks and bolts of fire. This awakening was part of the most dramatic and portentous wave of advance in the entire annals of electricity, to be matched in public participation only by the fireworks attending modern radio, electronics, and atomic fission."
"THE transformer noise problem has for various reasons become increasingly important and both users and manufacturers of power transformers have devoted considerable time and effort to its investigation. In 1954, the General Electric Company added a $1 1/2-million sound laboratory to its facilities. This laboratory has been designed to achieve maximum accuracy in transformer noise measurements for both developmental and acceptance tests."
"A CONDUCTION analogue such as the electrolytic tank is a familiar device for the solution of problems involving electric, magnetic, thermal, and other fields. The accuracy of measurements made in this way is often limited by distortion of the field produced by the boundaries of the conducting medium and by practical limitations on the size of the model. In 1949 Boothroyd, Cherry, and Makar1 described an ingenious circular double tank which was used for the study of impedance functions and which essentially eliminated the usual errors caused by the tank walls. Their technique is actually a special case of a general method based on conformal mapping."
"Discussions of grounding equipment, grounding for protection against lightning, static charges, and grounding systems and corrosion are presented, and various aspects of grounding practice in the oil industry are reviewed."
"THIS digest presents the results of an analytical and experimental study of the steady-state operation of a d-c motor with armature power supplied through metallic rectifiers and controlled by saturable reactors or magnetic amplifiers."
"THE Southern California Edison Company, with approximately 2,187 megawatts (mw) of effective operating capacity, 52 per cent of which is steam driven, is a participant in the 8,800-mw Pacific Southwest power area. In this operating area, the load changes on the systems and interchange of power across the interconnecting ties will on occasion impose rate-of-generation changes of 25 to 30 mw per minute, for periods of relatively short duration. The control of the tie line load and combined system frequency is maintained by automatic load- and frequency-control equipment, with one system regulating frequency, and the remaining systems controlling their ties with the regulating system."
"The recommendations made by Technical Committee 24 of the International Electro-technical Commission are presented. Although they have not as yet become official decisions, it is probable that they will be approved by the national committees as each decision was supported by a large majority of the delegates to the committee meetings."
"The first quantity application of ignitron rectifiers on multiple-unit cars is described. The use of the rectifier system has many advantages as it combines the desirable characteristics of high-voltage a-c transmission with straight d-c traction motors and control equipment."
"ALUMINUM is used presently in the lamp industry in many places. For example, it is the reflecting coating on all sealed-beam-type lamps. It is used also as a powder, where it has a beneficial effect on lamp performance, or in the manufacture of a heat reflecting disk to reduce the base temperature. But, by far, the largest amount of material and the newest use is for bases."
"IT was recognized early in the history of synchronous machines that generator operation at high-lagging, unity, and leading power factors resulted in extra losses and comparatively high temperatures in the structural parts at the ends of the armature core. This phenomenon has come to be termed as “end heating,” and is characteristic of the steam-turbine-type alternator."
"MOISTURE is one of the main foes of electric apparatus. In liquid-filled apparatus such as transformers, excessive moisture in the liquid can be a reflection of a similar situation in the solid insulation. The problem of accurately detecting these minute quantities of water in the liquid is an extremely important one."
"ANCHOR-ROD corrosion on multigrounded distribution lines has been found to occur as a result of galvanic action between copper-covered ground electrodes and galvanized steel anchor rods connected to the system neutral through uninsulated guys. This galvanic corrosion, while not observed in a majority of soils, has caused premature failures or excessively rapid deterioration of anchor rods in certain low-resistivity soils in North and South Dakota and in some other states west of the Mississippi River. Direct currents associated with the most usual corrosion reaction are shown in Fig. 1."
"A practical germanium power rectifier has been developed which is now being applied to industry in the form of a d-c power supply. Applications include its use in the chemical, aluminum, steel, titanium, and tin reclaiming industries. Ratings such as 16,000 amperes at 65 volts, 12,000 amperes at 130 volts, and 40,000 amperes at 24 volts are being manufactured."
"ONE facet of a-c generator protection that has not received sufficient study is that of detecting grounds in the field windings. There are many schemes available and in use for detecting field grounds, but all of them have some weakness or shortcoming."
"VIBRATION and noise in a 3-phase 2-pole a-c motor quite often are characterized by a pulsation or “beat” in the amplitude. That is, the amplitude of the vibration and noise increases and decreases at a uniform frequency which is related to the slip of the rotor. In many applications, these pulsations are not detrimental to the performance of the machine, but they do have an adverse psychological effect upon anyone in the vicinity, because a pulsating noise is much more noticeable than a steady one."
"Coaxial cavity band-pass filters of one or more sections in tandem have been developed to provide for simultaneous application to a single antenna of two or more radio transmitters and receivers operating in the 900-mc range. Considerable savings can be realized in equipment cost for multichannel radio systems."
"THIS digest describes the design of a magnetic digital data-recorder. The information is recorded in digital form for compactness. A comparison of various modulation methods in the paper shows that digital representation of the continuous voltages yields by far the smallest package."
"MAGNETIC-AMPLIFIER push-pull circuits, as used with position-indicating synchrotransmission systems, are supposed to have no output, if the input voltage is zero as a result of exact coincidence of alignment between the control-transformer rotor and the synchrogenerator rotor."
"AIEE'S 1955 SUMMER GENERAL Meeting promises a diversified technical program—54 sessions—plus an excellent opportunity for a New England vacation. This year's Summer Meeting will be held at Swampscott, Mass., June 27-July 1, with headquarters at the New Ocean House. Swampscott is 15 miles north of Boston. The AIEE Lynn and Boston Sections, sponsors of the meeting, invite members to make reservations now for accommodations."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Recounts the life and professional achievements of Russell Wellesley Stovel (who had served on the following AIEE committees: Traction and Transportation (1920-22), Power Stations (1919-20), and Power Generation (1928-31)), Claude N. Rakestraw (past chairman of AIEE's Cleveland Section), John Gustav Carroll (electrical engineer, Detroit, MI, USA District, Army Corps of Engineers, died on January 4, 1955), Carl Grover Jones."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"ANNOUNCEMENT of a system for “X-ray televising” the internal parts of an operating engine, the demonstration of a radiation monitor for atomic blasts, and recent developments in the science of measurement were among the highlights of an Open House at the National Bureau of Standards (NBS), Washington, D. C. The program stressed the significance of physical measurement standards to scientific and industrial progress and featured the first showing of two new radiation facilities: the NBS Beta∗∗∗-tron and Gamma Ray Laboratories. The Open House guests were also taken on guided tours covering the work of 14 other NBS Laboratories."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"A calculated financial schedule, scientific membership opinion surveys, a study of Institute structure by experts, continued work towards a unity organization—these are but four of the over-all preplanned projects which are being undertaken to insure the future of the AIEE."
"The technical problems confronting the Voice of America, the international broadcasting service of the U. S. Information Agency, and the techniques developed to counteract these obstacles are discussed. Included are such problems as jamming and overcoming the vast distances and deteriorating effects of the northern auroral zone separating the United States from intended audiences."
"ECCENTRICITY of the rotor causes pulsating unbalanced magnetic forces; induced currents in rotor winding, wedges, and surface; and circulating currents between stator circuits with consequent increased losses and temperatures. Inequality in the gap also affects the fringing fluxes at the core end region, and may result in high temperatures in clamping plates or retaining rings."
"This magnetic storage device combines the access-time advantages of a magnetic drum and the storage-capacity advantages of a tape recorder. All information is recorded on an endless magnetic tape which is divided into a series of pages. A desired page is wrapped around half of a rotating drum to be inspected by heads mounted on the drum."
"THE BENEFITS obtained by the use of capacitors on the electrical utility system are well established, as well as the experience that dictates that the capacitors should be disconnected from the circuits when they are not needed. This requirement for switching both on and off has re-. suited in applications that are determined by the selection of control means, and not always at the point of maximum effectiveness in the supply of reactive loads and voltage improvement."
"The most practical methods in use today for bypassing substation equipment are presented together with the advantages, limitations, and comparative costs for each of the schemes."
"These wartime experiences in Hungary offer valuable information when the differences between the telecommunications described and the circumstances there and in North America are taken into consideration. The preparations for and the effects of the war are treated."
"THE integrated Southern Company System, consisting of Alabama Power Company, Georgia Power Company, Gulf Power Company, and Mississippi Power Company, has had in operation an “incremental cost of power delivered” computer since June 1954. This analogue type of computer quickly determines the incremental percentage of power delivered from each source, as selected, and simultaneously calculates the incremental cost of power delivered from any particular generator."
"New technology and new technological applications will be necessary to provide the equipment and techniques required to produce the new and better consumer goods envisioned for the future—and this new technology is going to change, as well as increase, the requirements for more broadly trained technical talent."
"The high-voltage insulation-resistance meter described in this article provides a rugged, portable, accurate, and convenient means for making d-c overpotential tests or measurements of insulation resistance, polarization index, or leakage current versus voltage."
"TWENTY-EIGHT electrical operating companies, surveyed by a questionnaire,∗ reported on 126 cases of faulty relay operations caused by shock or vibration within the past 10 years. Analysis of the replies indicates that approximately 53 per cent of the cases were caused by shock and 47 per cent of the cases caused by vibration. The vibration was caused by rotating machines or by transients such as passing trains or trucks. A majority of difficulties caused by shock occurred where relays were mounted on hinged panels."
"Some of the fundamental techniques for recognizing, measuring, and reducing unwanted distortion in the electronic amplifiers of audio systems are discussed. Three chief sources of electronic distortion—tube nonlinearity, circuit reactances, and random interference—are dealt with in some detail"
"A LIGHTNING ARRESTER must function as an insulator under normal system line-to-ground voltage conditions, discharge without damage the complete range of transient disturbances expected in normal service, and interrupt the power frequency follow current resulting from these transient disturbances."
"THIS digest extends a method devised by Mulligan1 whereby the maxima and minima of the step response of fixed linear systems are determined without having to evaluate the entire response by using distances and angles between pole and zero locations of the system function."
"Time-delay devices that perform pulse-shaping and pulse-counting functions now use junction transistors and rectangular hysteresis-loop magnetic cores for reliable operation over wide temperature ranges and voltage variations."
"THE single-line diagram of the substation desired for the downtown area of the City of Pittsburgh, Pa., is shown in Fig. 1. Like the metropolitan area of most cities obtainable sites were small, expensive, and not suitable for conventional outdoor substation construction. Available sites and the economics of the entire project dictated the selection of a site of 17,000 square feet."
"THE INCREASING tempo of development and application of linear networks of all kinds has created a pressing need for impedance- and admittance-measuring apparatus with which results can be obtained rapidly and directly over wide and continuous ranges of frequency."
"Sequence control actuated by push buttons has been widely employed for electrically powered crude-oil pipe-line pump stations during recent years, and it has been helpful in the development of today's remotely operated unattended pumping stations. Basic circuitry and various considerations are presented."
"Gamma radiation can transform dielectric liquids by converting them into solids or by decomposing them into acids and gases. Various liquids can be evaluated; from the results obtained, the expected changes in them when used in equipment subjected to irradiation can be estimated. There are additives available which seem to increase the stability of such liquids subjected to gamma fields."
"Tests indicate that by proper application of sound-absorbing materials in electric machines, it is possible to obtain noise reductions of the order of 5 to 10 db. If economy is not a factor, greater reductions can be obtained, although the law of diminishing returns sets in rapidly."
"FREQUENCY response from experimental transient-response data is a most sought-after transformation. Basically, the transient response of a linear system is governed by the roots of its characteristic equation. This suggests that the transient response may be used to find these roots when the equation for the system is not known. If the roots so found are real, simple graphical procedures yield the corresponding frequency response. Complex roots are not considered here."
"THE BEHAVIOR of Deltamax reactors having rectangular hysteresis loop for sinusoidal applied voltages is similar to a gas tube: current for a given voltage flows only for a portion of the cycle called the “conduction angle,” and is practically negligible outside this range. Though the conduction angle increases with an increase of the amplitude of the applied voltage, the relationship between this angle and the voltage is quite different from that of a gas tube and is controlled by two factors, namely, the critical value of flux density at which the core saturates, and the nature of the series load. This relationship was derived for the two cases of pure resistance load and a load comprising series resistance and inductance, as shown in Fig. 1, thus: 1. The critical voltage at which firing takes place is a characteristic of the reactor, unaffected by load condition. 2. For voltages higher than the critical voltage, the presence of inductance in the load increases the conduction angle, thus increasing the sensitivity of the reactor."
"A study of some of the electrical and thermal properties of mixtures of helium and sulfur-hexafluoride, as compared with pure gases, shows that the mixture is attractive as a cooling and insulating medium for both static and rotating machines. It has electric strength greater than that of either air or of hydrogen, and has thermal properties nearly as good as hydrogen."
"COMMUNICATIONS CABLES are frequently subject to interference from external alternating electric and magnetic fields. The combined effects of these fields induces in the conductors of communications circuits voltages which tend to balance out, but often leave a residual large enough to interfere with the signal being transmitted. In such cases, it usually becomes necessary to surround the conductors with a conducting shield to reduce interference."
"THE magnetic pulser circuit developed by Melville1 offers considerable design flexibility in applications requiring high-power pulses. The criteria outlined here serve to simplify the design procedure."
"THE 1955 SUMMER GENERAL MEETING to be held at the New Ocean House in Swampscott, Mass., June 27—July 1, will provide a diversified program to satisfy everyone who attends. A total of 45 technical sessions will be held and nine inspection trips of both general and technical interest have been arranged to complement the program."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"THE AVAILABILITY of a new and revolutionary radio navigation system, described as one of the most important advances in air navigation in recent years, has been announced by International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The arguments aimed at ambitious young engineers to convince them that electrical utility engineering has little to offer are examined and shown to lack solid factual support. However, considerable evidence is presented showing the economic significance of the electrical utility industry and the wide variety of challenging problems and opportunities it poses."
"Technological development has produced for America the highest standard of living in history, but technology depends, in turn, on research. Thus, if our tremendous rate of production is to be continued, a national science policy must be formulated which will foster and maintain those conditions under which research can best be carried on."
"In the light of current interest in the classification of technical data, this article describing the attempt of one technical committee to methodize reference material within its scope is published in the hope that it will encourage other technical committees to undertake similar projects covering subjects in their fields."
"In the circuit described in this article, use is made of transistors in a design for multistable operation. Theoretically, only two active elements in a trigger arrangement are necessary for any number of statically stable states."
"These tests are discussed from the viewpoint of field investigations and transient considerations, the transient behavior of distribution transformers, fault detection by induced-voltage-wave method, comparison of fault-detection methods when testing high-voltage windings, and impulse testing low-voltage windings of large high-voltage distribution transformers."
"A 5,000,000-KVA COMPRESSED-AIR circuit breaker that is rated at 69,000 volts with 2,000-ampere continuous current-carrying capacity has been developed and tested. The breaker is completely metal enclosed. Six condenser bushings extend through the roof for mounting of current transformers, potential devices, and for connection to the customer's bus structure (Fig. 1). Verification tests included interrupting demonstrations at 66, 44, and 22 kv. Tests with varying rates of rise of the transient recovery voltage were also included in the testing program."
"RECOMMENDATIONS HAVE BEEN MADE by the AIEE for permissible 60-cycle overvoltage operation of power capacitors. Operation at overvoltage of capacitors means an increased kilovar output proportional to the square of the voltage increase. So far, little use has been made of the economics offered by this overload capacity. The overload capacity of capacitors can be used advantageously for two temporary system requirements: (1) a short-time comparatively large kilovar increase for system stability in emergency cases; and (2) a longer-time comparatively small kilovar increase for intermittent extreme-voltage or power-factor improvement."
"Preliminary evaluations of new fluorogases indicate that the dielectric characteristics of many of the new fluorocarbons are superior to those of the halogenated gaseous compounds. However, it is often advantageous to mix these gases with nitrogen to lower the cost, reduce the condensation point, and obtain a more uniform breakdown characteristic in the nonuniform field."
"IN MANY important applications, magnetic materials in the form of thin laminations are subjected to a compressional stress. Particularly important examples of this type of application are the clamping of magnetic laminations for electric motors, transformers, and synchro-components. In each of the examples, the direction of the compressional stress is perpendicular to the direction of the magnetic field and perpendicular to the plane of the laminations; hence, this case warrants special consideration."
"Data presented in this article, plus operating experience with this type of control, prove that large banks of substation static capacitors may be successfully switched automatically to gain the maximum benefit in voltage control and power factor correction."
"THIS digest presents a review of wind, ice, and other loading assumptions specified by European line designers, so as to draw a comparison between American assumptions and those employed abroad."
"A phase-sensitive transistor demodulator in series with the high-gain 2-stage magnetic amplifier, as described, provides a unit that is very effective in a position servo system."
"THIS digest discusses a group of methods for the measurement of vibration by devices which make no mechanical contact with the vibrating object. These devices sense the vibrations by their effect on an electric field between the pickup and the object shaken and give the magnitudes of the frequency, amplitude, and waveform of the vibratory displacements. In spite of the disadvantage of determining accelerations by measuring the frequency, amplitude, and waveform of the displacements, owing to the very large range of displacements required to hold constant acceleration through considerable frequency changes, these devices are highly useful. Effectively, they are a class of transducers for converting mechanical displacement to electric output which do not load the vibrating object."
"A HIGH-VOLTAGE bushing which successfully sustains repeated application of 60-cycle and impulse test voltages may not be adequate for prolonged operation at rated line-to-ground voltage. Tests to evaluate bushings at voltages slightly in excess of operating have, therefore, been devised."
"This conduction-type counter uses a cadmium-sulfate crystal mounted in a hypodermic needle; a probe preamplifier of low noise was designed to be used with it. An analysis of the geometry of the problem has been derived to yield the counting rate in terms of the crystal size, concentration of radioactive atoms, their mean life, and the end-point energy of the beta particles."
"EXCESSIVE TRANSIENT VOLTAGES are the principal concern in switching long 230-kv lines. Such voltages are usually the result of commutation of line capacitance with respect to supply voltage by restriking of line circuit breakers. Experience has shown that restrikes will generally produce higher voltages on long lines than on relatively short lines. This is because the breakers will usually interrupt long-line restrike current at the first current zero, leaving the line charged at high potential, which in turn is apt to result in even higher transient voltage should further restrikes occur. Thus consideration must be given to breaker design safely to permit line switching."
"Some of the most important problems of television film reproduction are discussed, emphasizing these problems from the standpoint of the television system. A commercially available color-film camera system utilizing three Vidicon pickup tubes is described."
"THE Central Laboratory of the New England Power Service Company maintains the watt-hour standards for the New England Electric System. Up to recently, calibration techniques were not satisfactory since not only field watt-hour meter standards but reference watt-hour meter standards showed errors, minor in so far as commercial yardsticks were concerned, but annoying from the laboratory point of view. To minimize these errors, test procedures and equipment were reviewed. The aim was to stabilize all conditions which might influence the reference standards, to eliminate in so far as possible the errors due to the human element, and thus reduce inaccuracies."
"THE system error ε(t) in a sampled-data feedback system is an important design parameter. It is defined as the difference between the actual output c(t) and the desired output cd(t), i.e., $\\epsilon (t) \\buildrel{\\triangle}\\over {=} c_{d}(t)-c(t)$. The system error has two components: (1) organic error, due to system energy storages; and (2) ripple, due to the sampling process. Formulation of these errors is obtained through the use of z-transform1 and ordinary Laplace transform techniques. (z-transforms are merely Laplace transforms of pulsed data and are usually rational functions in εsT in which εsT has been replaced by z.)"
"THE TREND in the construction and erection of vertical water-wheel generators is to increasingly larger units as experience and materials permit. The machining tolerances called for become very remarkable as the sizes increase. The practices of the Canadian Westinghouse Company with approximately 9-million installed horsepower of generator experience can be used to illustrate modern construction and erection practices. (See Fig. 1.)"
"WITH THE COLUMBUS, OHIO, SECTION as host to 703 AIEE members, students, and guests, the Middle Eastern District Meeting (at the Deshler-Hilton Hotel in Columbus, May 4–6, 1955) was a success from both technical and social viewpoints."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"DESIGN of a new atomic power reactor, described as a “major advance toward the economic generation of electricity from atomic energy,” was announced recently by Francis K. McGune, General Electric Company vice-president and general manager of the company's Atomic Products Division."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"1At the end of his term as president of the AIEE Mr. Monteith reports on the current status of the Institute, what has been done during the past administrative year, and plans for the future."
"The importance of the first research and teaching reactor to be built on a university campus is emphasized against the background of the United States' shortage of adequately trained scientists and engineers. How colleges and universities can help is pointed out."
"THE ever-increasing complexity of telephone and telegraph switching circuitry in the Bell System had reached a stage about 10 years ago, where many of the conventional type of schematic circuit drawings presented difficulties in training of personnel and maintenance. It then became necessary, particularly for the more complex circuits, to prepare and maintain a separate series of drawings—especially streamlined for training purposes and for aiding maintenance. However, the preparation of two sets of drawings for these cases and keeping them in step as improvements and changes were added was costly."
"This system combines adequate storage capacity with compressor control which supplements this storage capacity permitting the use of all three compressors under conditions of high air demand, yet dividing load between the three compressors under normal air usage."
"A central control system is described which follows preset programs and automatically switches on or off up to 40 groups of remote operations—each on its own time schedule. Utilizing carrier current signals, it operates over existing electric circuits and does not require the installation of any transmission wiring."
"A series of studies now being carried on by the National Science Foundation will constitute, when completed, an over-all survey of research and development in the United States, including the Federal Government, industry, and universities and other nonprofit organizations. The broad outlines of this survey and its objectives are presented, together with such findings as are currently available."
"THE SOLUTION to a large number of physical problems involving such topics as heat transfer, fluid flow, electric or magnetic fields, etc., may often be found most easily by setting up the required boundaries in an electrolytic tank. This is essentially an analogue method, and the solution consists in finding the equipotential lines and tracing them on a piece of paper."
"THE CHARACTERISTICS of a ferromagnetic reactor as a function of two perpendicularly superimposed magnetic fields were discussed in an article by Beck and Kelly1 in 1948. The core and coil configuration shown in Fig. 1 illustrates one practical method for superposing two perpendicular magnetic fields. The core is a hollow toroid of ferrite material which encloses an annular coil, and which is wound toroidally by a second coil. This core and coil configuration will be referred to as a cross-field reactor."
"BENJAMIN Garver Lamme, a graduate mechanical engineer from Ohio State, had a lifetime association with the Westinghouse Electric Corporation as a design and developmental engineer, and later as their chief engineer."
"IT is with personal, professional, and corporate pride that I approach the traditional assignment of delineating the career of the medalist."
"IT IS WITH A MIXED FEELING of pride and humility that I accept the Lamme Medal."
"THE methods of calculating the closed-loop frequency response of a linear control system are well known and straightforward. To calculate the transient response to a step input, which in some cases may be more important, is more difficult. There is need for a simple fast method of calculating the step transient response (preferably from the frequency response) for analytic purposes, and also for gaining insight into design for a specified step response."
"Transmission of color video presents a number of problems that were not encountered in monochrome transmission. The Bell System is attempting to improve transmission of chrominance information so that it is free of any phase and amplitude distortion, as well as reflections and external interfering energy."
"IN the performance testing of fractional-horsepower motors a great deal of variation in test results occurs because of: (1) variation between motors; (2) bias on the part of the testers; (3) inability to control all test conditions."
"Circuit arrangements are presented which considerably reduce the effect of changes in supply voltage and temperature on the frequency of a transistor oscillator. The oscillators described use n-p-n junction transistors and operate in the frequency range of 1 to 2 mc. In this range, a stability of 10 to 20 parts per million for 10-percent changes in supply voltage have been obtained compared with 200 to 400 parts per million for the same change in unstabilized oscillators."
"Adjustable-speed drives of small and medium horsepower are divided into seven types and the general characteristics of each are described and compared with reference to their application in the paper industry. Mill experience suggests that the flexibility of the adjustable-voltage d-c drive and the simplicity of the wound-rotor drive are satisfactory for most drive applications."
"The different views of automation held by labor, industry, and the man in the street are discussed as well as how automation has developed logically in an evolutionary way. Automation is also shown to be necessary even to maintain the present rate of improvement in the standard of living and therefore an absolute necessity for continued American progress."
"The work which resulted in a proposed new system of nomenclature which may become the international standard within the next few years is outlined. It offers simplicity, ease of remembrance, the capability of expansion, and should prove useful to many other technical fields beside communication."
"Time-division multiplex systems once required either complex waveforms or multiple complex networks to overcome the master timing or synchronization problem. Now this newly designed quadriphase system, using a completely new approach to the problem, presents simplicity of design, operation, and maintenance, with similar reliability and excellent performance."
"THIS digest discusses a method of designing feedback control systems so that for a specified performance their bandwidth is a minimum. Not infrequently, engineers have designed control systems with the objective of minimizing errors; with attention focused on the problem of minimizing errors there is a tendency to use bandwidth inefficiently so that he manufactures increased difficulties. He may open up the bandwidth of the control system to the point where he has undue transmission of noise. In the case of mechanical systems, he may increase the bandwidth to the point where elastances in gear boxes and supporting structure will cause severe stability problems. As the result of large bandwidth, he may encounter a saturation problem in one of the components toward the output end that would not otherwise exist. Expanding the bandwidth of a control system may require him to use more expensive components than are really necessary. For these and many other reasons he should strive to keep the bandwidth requirements of a feedback control system as low as possible."
"An electrostatic voltmeter designed to record potentials as low as 1 volt direct current with an input resistance of 1014 ohms is described. It uses an electrostatic generator to provide an a-c signal proportional to voltage, together with a simple audio amplifier which requires only a commercial 1-milliampere recording meter as auxiliary equipment."
"WHEN designing a device or component, the engineer is faced with the problem of how to optimize its shape to make the best use of the materials."
"INDUCTION-MOTOR designers have recognized for many years that the skew of the rotor slots with respect to the stator slots produces variations axially across the stack in the net fundamental mmf wave. This variation affects the saturation factors, iron losses, and motor noise."
"FINAL ARRANGEMENTS have been made for the Pacific General Meeting to be held this month, August 15–17, in Butte, Mont. Headquarters for this meeting is the Finlen Hotel."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers presents to the membership its 71st Annual Report, covering the fiscal year ending April 30, 1955. It contains a brief summary of the principal activities of the Institute during the year, a general balance sheet showing the financial condition of the Institute at the close of the fiscal year, a statement of cash receipts and disbursements, and a schedule of securities owned. Much additional information regarding the activities appeared in various issues of Electrical Engineering."
"LAYING of the world's first transoceanic telephone cable, to span the Atlantic between Newfoundland and Scotland, began June 22. The transatlantic voiceways are to be extended 300 miles westward from Newfoundland to the eastern tip of Nova Scotia via another submarine cable, and from there to the United States over a 575-mile radio-relay system."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The old fable, “Acres of Diamonds,” teaches that one should not go abroad seeking diamonds, until one has carefully examined one's own backyard. In research, too, the moral applies. Under the scrutiny of modern science, everday phenomena have been made to yield, not only actual man-made diamonds, but “gems” of knowledge of even greater value."
"PUBLICATION of the first report in Electrical Engineering, February 1955, pp. 96–7, disclosed that in reply to Question 3 on Employment Status, those who answered classified themselves as follows: 3.4 per cent Self-employed 52.6 per cent Supervisor 3.5 per cent Employer 40.5 per cent Nonsupervisor"
"MANY NEW AND USEFUL TECHNIQUES have become available in the communications field in recent years. There is a natural and quite proper desire to employ these new techniques for the control of railway traffic. A modern railway signaling system must have as its foundation properly designed fail-safe circuits; but under the careful guidance of a signal engineer, the more conventional communications circuits may then be superimposed and the remote control of railway traffic achieved with complete safety."
"The characteristics of square-loop ferromagnetic cores and the basic circuits from which logical elements can be formed are described briefly and several typical applications are discussed. Future applications are expected to expand beyond electronic computers to include the fields of industrial control and communication."
"The electric distribution system described began operation in October 1952. As designed and built, it has given every indication of its ability to fulfill its requirements and also of being capable of modification as conditions change."
"Detroit automation and job-shop automation are contrasted, as well as several other types of automation described, in this article. Factual aspects of automation, covering history and engineering factors, are presented."
"BAR SHAPES are used in rotors of squirrel-cage motors for which a straightforward mathematical determination of the skin-effect is not possible. The solutions obtained for bar shapes, for which a straightforward mathematical solution is possible, indicate that the skin-effect is not affected by the actual width of the bar. This leads to the assumption that the “depth of penetration” is independent of the shape of the bar. The depth of penetration must be defined differently for the ratio of a-c to d-c resistance: rac/rdc, and for the ratio of a-c to d-c inductance: lac/ldc. Denoting the depth of penetration for rac/rac by hpr and that for lac/ldc by hpx, the assumption of independent depth of penetration means that for the bars of the same height but of different shapes, hpr is the same and hpx is also the same. This is indicated in Fig. 1 for three bars of different shapes."
"Experiences and information gained from the application of electric equipment to the modern fully electric shovel are presented. The development of this type of equipment is traced, emphasizing the electrical problems solved. The required machine characteristics and application data are included."
"THE GASEOUS AND LIQUID perfluorocarbons, which were developed during World War II, are among the more recent synthetic materials which show promise of finding applications in the electrical insulation field. These compounds came into being through the pioneer work done at the Johns Hopkins, Pennsylvania State, and Purdue Universities, and also by E. I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, Inc., and more recently by the Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company. The perfluorocarbons are completely fluorinated carbon compounds, showing quite different properties from their hydrocarbon counterparts."
"EXACTING SPECIFICATIONS for modern railway-car power supply, together with the necessity for extreme simplicity and reduced maintenance, rendered a new type of power supply desirable. This led to the development of a motor-generator-exciter system which, together with its associated control, represents a major advance in the art of railway-car power-supply design."
"A brief description of the functions of the components precedes a discussion of the electron accelerator. Only the design features of the 45-megelectron-volt linear electron accelerator associated with its medical application and experimental measurements of performance are stressed."
"THE INCREASING USE of higher secondary voltages in commercial areas continues to focus attention on various secondary voltages that are feasible from both engineering and economic standpoints. Previous studies1,2 with which the authors were associated have already presented considerable material on the engineering and economic considerations in secondary-network system planning and design."
"THE STANDARDS FOR TRACTION MOTORS list them as class B (1943 AIEE Standard No. 77), which provides that peak value by resistance shall not exceed 160 C for the armature and 170 C for the fields. Modern diesel-electric locomotive traction motors often exceed these limits by 20 to 30 C. Coupled with this are severe vibration conditions, dust, water, varying humidity, highly variable maintenance, and shock."
"Past and present research and development in teletypewriter and teletypewriter switching equipments conducted by and for the U. S. Army Signal Corps is described."
"Useful methods for distribution-substation and primary-feeder planning, based on the concept that actual distribution systems can be represented by a hypothetical system comparatively simple to construct and analyze, are presented. The methods can be used for quickly analyzing the service-quality and economic feasibility of planning alternatives or proposed changes."
"The various precautions taken in the design of central office communications equipment to reduce to a minimum the possibility of dangerous electric shock are outlined. These include interlocks on high-voltage control equipment, series resistors used with pin jacks, protective grids, and special test probes."
"SINCE 1949, there has been a slow but steady growth in the number of homes with electric radiant-panel heating in The Detroit Edison Company service area. While most of the early installations were in homes previously heated by other methods, there has been a definite trend in the past year or two to new homes designed and insulated for this type of heating."
"FOR YEARS attempts have been made to power locomotives by 25-cycle single-phase rectified voltage applied to d-c series motors. Early efforts were unsuccessful, mainly because of the faulty operation of the mercury-arc rectifiers. Continued research and development, however, made operation of d-c traction motors on mercury-arc rectifiers entirely feasible. The problem of such operation resolves itself into the problem of smoothing the undulating current sufficiently to avoid harmful effects on the motor."
"FOR THE SECOND YEAR in succession, AIEE's Fall General Meeting will take place in Chicago, Ill. This year's meeting will be held October 3–7 with headquarters again at the Morrison Hotel. The entire facilities of the Morrison will be occupied by AIEE during the 5-day meeting. Chicago is the center of one of the greatest diversified industrial areas in the world and its easy accessibility by air, rail, and automobile from all parts of the continent makes it an unusually favorable place for this important meeting."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists various society-based activities and events that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"THE DEVELOPMENT of a mobile power plant of unique design has been announced by Clark Brothers Company of Olean, N. Y., one of the Dresser industries. This turbo-mobile power plant is capable of developing 5500 kw. The complete plant is mounted in a single railroad car and can be placed in operation after an absolute minimum of preparation. The 5500-kw plant has as its source of power a newly designed combustion gas turbine which is directly connected to a generator."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unlets otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"In this his initial presidential address, President Hooven tells of our responsibilities to the other branches of the engineering profession—the recently conducted opinion survey—the work of the consultants on AIEE management—and his ideas on how the profession should advance."
"Today's problems facing research laboratories in building a competent staff for creative technology, as well as the problems of the technical schools in establishing curricula suited to today's changing needs, are summarized. Experience of one large industrial laboratory in an educational program has led to the conclusions presented on training requirements."
"The proper selection and design of dielectric components for electronic applications must take into consideration the types of loading to be expected and the ambient temperature. It is suggested that 3-dimensional plots of the engineering properties vs. both time and temperature are necessary for best results."
"This article deals with the prevention of explosions in flight-test airplanes caused by flight-test instrumentation equipment. While considerable progress already has been made, much remains to be done in the way of investigation, education, and the application of information already known. This is where the instrumentation manufacturer is invited to participate."
"A summary of significant achievements in electric power transmission from 1900–1945, including a brief discussion of the major problems encountered and solved during this period, is presented. The progress of 330-kv transmission today and the role of power transmission in the future is emphasized."
"TO DETERMINE the success of a locomotive application, it is desirable to evaluate the effect on locomotive performance of both system and locomotive constants. In the process of designing an 11,000-volt 25-cycle rectifier locomotive, a generalized graphical method was developed for calculating speed-tractive effort curves, and evaluating relative importance of system and locomotive constants."
"The history of the various efforts directed toward unity is briefly summarized. A plan of action is offered which appears to have merit and seems worthy of consideration by those who are searching seriously for an effective unity organization."
"With the ground breaking for the first full-scale nuclear-energy plant for producing electric power, a project was started which in a few years will provide invaluable information on many phases of construction, operation, manpower, and costs."
"CONDUCTOR BURNDOWN, one of the distribution engineer's major problems, focuses attention upon a need for higher speed interrupters. Automatic circuit reclosers with present “instantaneous” or “fast” time curves meet this need only partially because as much as 48 cycles is required to clear the circuit. A new design provides circuit clearing in one to three cycles, depending upon fault-current magnitude. It also provides 20-cycle re-closing for quick circuit pickup following clearing of a transient fault."
"Reliability of military electronic equipment is an increasingly important factor, especially as it is becoming more complex. A long-range program has been started to increase reliability through the use of functional subassemblies as standard building blocks for equipment."
"This type of speed regulator should provide new applications for electric drives and set new machine-performance standards. Often these drives will provide greater flexibility of control and allow machine-design simplifications."
"Although the experiments reported here were conducted on relatively few specimens, the results are important. They definitely indicate that significant advances have been made in the maximum temperature of operation and in the forward-to-reverse resistance ratio of titanium dioxide rectifiers."
"THE NEED for wide-band impedance transforming devices for pulses of millimicrosecond duration has long been recognized. Because of the difficulty in constructing suitable lumped-parameter transformers the trend in recent years has been toward distributed systems, particularly of the tapered transmission-line variety."
"THIS study of the propagation mechanism of impulse creepage discharges over oil-immersed Kraft board was carried out using Leica and high-speed Boys cameras to record the progression of the discharges, as well as a special probe technique to measure the discharge potentials at various points along the channel. The electrode configuration used in these experiments consisted of a rod electrode on one side of a sheet of 1/8-inch Kraft board and a grounded copper surface deposited on the opposite side. Capacitance probes were imbedded in the copper surface to measure the approximate potentials of streamers passing along the rod side of the insulation. Impulse waves of 1.5 × 7,000 microseconds were applied to the rod at 120 kv which was about three times the corona starting level. The entire test structure was placed in a lucite tank filled with commercial-quality insulating oil. Photographs of the discharges were made through the walls of the tank by means of a slit and mirror arrangement. The Kraft board insulation used in these tests was first impregnated with oil under vacuum, and transferred to the testing tank just before tests were begun."
"The optimization of toroidal core shapes for use in self-saturating magnetic amplifiers requires a knowledge of the influence of id-od ratio on apparent core magnetic properties. A theoretical result was derived assuming a parallelogram-shaped basic hysteresis loop and an elaborate experiment was performed. The possibility of doubling the gain of a push-pull amplifier stage by changing the core height and radial build-up to increase the id-od ratio without changing the iron area was shown."
"IT IS KNOWN that the z-transform method1−4 can be readily used for analysis and design of sampled-data systems. This method is essentially a Laplace transform technique in which the sampled output is related to the input by system functions in the form of z-transforms. These system functions can be generally regarded to consist of zeros and poles, in the form of rational polynomial in the variable z, where z is defined as ∊Ts and T is the sampling period. The purpose of this digest is to investigate in detail the effect of the locations of the poles and zeros of the transfer function on the transient response of sampled-data systems when subjected to step input."
"The engineer's role in maintaining the integrity and efficiency of the productive process may seem so obvious a goal as not to require special representation by any profession. At the same time the engineer must be aware of the hidden subtleties of his mission and of its relationship to that of other callings."
"This new transient analyzer, a combined recurrent surge generator and oscillograph, has many new circuits to increase the convenience and accuracy of transient response measurement. A 400-cycle surge generator gives intense images. A vertical-bias system on the cathode-ray tube provides unmetered bias for positioning, metered bias for displacement-type deflection measuring, and astigmatism control for measuring small differences of large voltages. A time-measuring circuit provides two blank spots on the sweep whose positions are adjustable and metered."
"Formulas are derived for more accurately computing the thawing of line ice. Experiments which were conducted to determine the various heat losses to increase understanding and control of the thawing process are described."
"WHAT is believed to be the heaviest fault interruption ever made at 138 kv was attained during field tests on July 3, 1954, at the 600-megawatt Philip Sporn Power Plant of American Gas and Electric Company when a 138-kv 1,200-ampere (amp) 5,000-megavolt-ampere (mva) 3-cycle oil circuit breaker of standard design (Fig. 1) interrupted 6,900 mva under normal tripping conditions; that is, pretripping was not resorted to for obtaining a large numerical value of power. Asymmetry for this interruption was 49.5 per cent. The breaker interrupted all power available at the site, including that received from distant stations as shown in Fig. 2. A comparison of the 6,900-mva value with the 3,500 mva interrupted 10 years ago at Philo Station points to the rapid growth of the system.1"
"Electric transducers are designed for use with mechanical scales to obtain automatic weighing control. The advantages and disadvantages of the various types of transducers are given to assist the engineer in making the proper design for any special weighing system."
"THE PACIFIC GENERAL MEETING, held in Butte, Mont., August 15–17, 1955, provided a program of ten technical sessions, entertainment, and inspection trips in true Western tradition. The sessions started on time as C. H. Kirk and his vigilante committee rounded up stragglers by shooting blanks at their heels. The meeting was opened with a general session on Monday and, besides the ten technical sessions, an all-day meeting of the Board of Directors was held as well as several important committee meetings."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"A RESEARCH FACILITY destined to provide new materials for the future—for applications ranging from fast rockets and atomic power plants to labor-saving kitchen equipment—was dedicated late in August at the General Electric Research Laboratory, Schenectady, N. Y."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"“Solidarity of the electrical engineering profession is a characteristic inherent in the profession itself,” according to M. D. Hooven, AIEE President. “Where a common purpose or a common effort is required… common participation is assured.” President Hooven tells of joint efforts in the profession, of individuals participating in more than one of the associations, and particularly of AIEE's relation to its affiliates."
"The three principal functions the managing engineer must perform are outlined in their logical order. Areas related to the basic ones of planning, control, and appraisal of performance are also indicated."
"Solar energy can now compete with animal power and manpower, but there will be no era of solar prosperity in the near future. With the coming shortages in fuel supply, however, extensive programs of research and development on the utilization of solar energy should not be delayed."
"With the growth of television broadcasting service, and especially its application in the UHF field, the “shadow” areas that have no coverage have become more apparent. As a result, the FCC has authorized the operation of satellite and booster stations to increase the availability of television service to the whole country."
"Many varied professional skills have gone into the development of this rapid-transit control system to obtain a balance between economy and passenger convenience. Modern methods are used for despatching trains, for recording train movements, and for direct communication to operating personnel and passengers."
"INFORMATION on the design of sound barriers has been obtained by model tests. A new method of noise control called “sound cancellation” is being investigated."
"RECTIFIED SINGLE-PHASE POWER is not direct current in the usually accepted sense of the term. If the circuit has no inductances, a pulsating direct current is produced; each pulse being the upper half of a sine wave. Actually, the lower half of the sine wave has been inverted above the zero axis. If sufficient inductance can be added to the rectifier output circuit, the pulses can be smoothed out, but the amount required is so high as to be impractical. A reactor of reasonable size can be designed, however, if the ripple in the output current is held to approximately 20 per cent with maximum motor currents."
"With the introduction of the flexible multichannel television distribution system and the 2-way television system, it is now possible to simultaneously transmit and receive signals at a number of pickup-reception points in the system. The operation of these two systems are explained for those installed at Fort Monmouth and Case Institute of Technology."
"A nuclear power plant of the pressurized water-moderated and -cooled type as described is able to meet the requirements of a central-station facility for system load control the same as conventional plants. Operation procedures do not differ markedly, so the plant can be operated in its usual manner."
"A POLAR INDEX OF TRANSFORMER OIL can be calculated from the dielectric constant ∊, density d, and refractive index nD."
"ALTHOUGH REGENT LITERATURE has primarily described the small- to medium-power applications of the static magnetic amplifier, it is in the high-power field that the natural advantages of the magnetic amplifier can be fully realized. With present-day materials, the heavy-duty static magnetic amplifier can often be built smaller, more efficient, and less expensive than comparable rotating magnetic amplifiers."
"Electronic equipments and components subjected to conditions of high humidity, rough handling, and thermal shock require the use of encapsulating materials for protection. As each of these materials has its own special qualities, any one of them should be considered for a given application in accordance with the various characteristics, as described."
"A NEW METHOD is described for determining the effect of thermal aging on the shearing modulus of flexible sheet insulations by nondestructive tests using a torsion pendulum technique. The test sample consists of a 12-inch length of the material under test, clamped between two pairs of inertia bars of different weight and inertia."
"The inherent reliability of the electronic components of a system is the capability of the design to function without failure in the work assigned to it. A prediction at the drawing-board stage of the design of equipment and its reliability can be made."
"A wattmetric induction unit, similar in construction to a watthour meter, is the sensitive relay element of this temperature measuring circuit, which provides protection to electric equipment so that maximum-temperature limits are not exceeded. Advantages of the relay include simplified design, accuracy, and reliability."
"USUALLY, SINGLE-WINDING THEORY has been applied to multiwinding transformers for the determination of the natural frequencies and, in some cases, yields results which agree very well with observation."
"THE GENERAL USE OF HIGHER VOLTAGES for distribution of power in commercial areas has many facets, one of the most important being economics. This digest deals with the economic comparison of power distribution in congested commercial areas at 120/208 volts and 265/460 volts. These voltages are the nominal system voltages. The specific areas considered are in the borough of Manhattan, New York, N. Y., but are similar to those generally encountered in any large metropolitan area. Underground distribution systems only were studied."
"In view of the possibilities of various types of primary power system failure in jet aircraft, provision for emergency electric power is essential. Several feasible systems for emergency power generation in jet fighter, cargo, and bomber aircraft, as well as the important design considerations, are presented."
"IN THE PLANNING of the Pittsburgh downtown 69-kv power supply, several factors had to be considered in the design of switchgear equipment: The substation area was limited, the high-voltage circuits were subject to lightning exposure, appearance requirements were dictated by a downtown area development, and safety was important."
"BISTABLE MAGNETIC AMPLIFIERS are characterized by two widely different stable levels of output, one close to quiescent and the other close to fully saturated conditions. This “flip-flop” operation is desirable in some applications and can be achieved intentionally by over-regenerative mmf of one sort or another, properly introduced to modify the characteristic of self-saturating amplifiers."
"RELAY SERVOMECHANISMS, in general, show advantages over continuous servomechanisms with regard to cost, size, weight, and complexity. The application of relay servomechanisms, however, has been retarded by the meager understanding of obtainable operating characteristics and the lack of practical design methods."
"APPROXIMATELY 380 PAPERS and 95 technical sessions are anticipated for the 1956 AIEE Winter General Meeting. Also, there are advance indications that more than 5,000 members and guests will register for next year's meeting, to be held January 30-February 3 at the Hotels Statler and Governor Clinton, New York, N. Y."
"AS THIS ISSUE goes to press, the AIEE Fall General Meeting convenes at the Morrison Hotel in Chicago, Ill., October 3–7. With the National Electronics Conference (NEC) also being held in Chicago at this time, there is little left to be desired in the fields of communication and electronics"
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"FOUR-HUNDRED AND TWENTY engineers from 22 states and Venezuela attended this year's Electrical Conference of the Petroleum. Industry, sponsored by AIEE's Houston Section and the Petroleum Industry Committee. The conference took place at the Shamrock Hotel, Houston, Tex., September 12–14. (The Petroleum Industry Committee has accepted the invitation of the Kansas City Section (Mo.) to hold next year's conference in Kansas City, September 17–19.)"
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"AN UNDERWATER APPLICATION of closed-circuit television, which is enabling the U. S. Fish and Wildlife Service, Department of the Interior, to observe and test the performance of experimental fishery methods and equipment under actual oceanic conditions, was reported recently by Theodore A. Smith, vice-president and general manager of the engineering products division, Radio Corporation of America (RCA). The application represents the first practical demonstration in the United States of underwater television as a research tool for experimental, work in fishery operations, and gives promise of a wide range of uses in marine biology and explorations."
"A NEW DEVELOPMENT in the winding of electromagnetic coils for use in transformers, solenoids, and some motors and generators is expected to reduce the cost of coils substantially. The method involves winding coils with strips of aluminum foil or thin aluminum sheet instead of with conventional electric wire."
"DEFECTS, including tiny voids or bubble-like imperfections smaller than a grain of sand, in the rubber insulation on high-voltage cables can be identified and located readily by new nondestructive testing equipment developed by research engineers of The Okonite Company, Passaic, N. J."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The obligations of engineering management and the methods for meeting these obligations are outlined. The author also discusses the relationships between marketing, product engineering, and manufacturing."
"The first fully operative transistorized calculator complete with automatic input and output is described. This compact “all-transistor” unit requires 95 per cent less power than a vacuum-tube unit of comparable capacity. Present operating experience indicates the important role which transistors will play in the computers of the future."
"A NEW DESIGN PRINCIPLE is the basis for three novel types of electronic measuring instruments. The instruments are direct reading and may be used to measure power, power factor, voltage, or current."
"Some of the more pertinent problems involved in the design of a jet aircraft electric system are discussed. The methods used in approaching these problems, along with a detailed analysis of the design of two typical circuits, are presented."
"NONLINEARITIES of backlash type are characterized by a multivalued input-output relationship which depends both upon the instantaneous value and the rate of change of the input and, in general, cannot be expressed in simple analytical form."
"The property of emissivity is sometimes an overlooked fundamental in electric-appliance design. A practical consideration of this factor in the materials used is important for efficient heat transfer, as is shown by the data that is presented in this article."
"A STUDY WAS MADE recently to determine the magnitude of the angular swing produced in a synchronous condenser by sudden application of an arc-furnace load, and the effect of this swing on the magnitude of the voltage dip."
"CONSIDER a magnetic medium which has a B-H characteristic such as that shown as the solid-line curve in Fig. 1 and let H vary with time cosinusoidally, as follows."
"THIS DIGEST deals with the experimental application of functional test principles to the evaluation of temperature endurance of dry-type power transformers. The object of the tests described was not to test any specific design of dry-type transformers; rather, it was to give a trial run to a test procedure which was under consideration as a Test Code by a subgroup of the AIEE Working Group on Life of Materials. These, and similar tests made by four transformer manufacturers, along with a background of field experience, were used in formulating the “Proposed Test Code for Functional Temperature Endurance Tests of Ventilated Dry-Type Power and Distribution Transformers.”"
"As equipment becomes increasingly complex, component reliability becomes more vital. A statistical study of operational failures of various types of electronic components and ways of reducing these failures are presented. Methods for minimizing maintenance problems through the use of plug-in subassemblies are also discussed."
"THE RECENT ACTIVITY AND INTEREST in the development of computer methods for speeding up the solution of power-system transient-stability problems has prompted the reporting of some work done to accomplish this task on the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) Network Analyzer."
"ON THE BASIS of Fourier's equation of heat flow, equations are derived for the temperature-rise distribution along the armature winding and the iron. These latter equations make possible the investigation of the influence of various factors on this temperature rise. They also make possible the computation of the heat flow between embedded copper and end-winding copper, between copper and iron, and between copper and iron and the cooling medium."
"This control process, as originated by French engineers, is adaptable to use on a single system or on several interconnecting systems. The author describes the principle and gives examples of this automatic control based on the measurement of the integral of the deviation of the controlled quantity and upon the subjection to this integral of the load of the plants."
"THE WEST having relied on hydroelectric resources to supply most of its electric energy will in several important areas have to use thermal generation for a large portion of future needs. As an example, consider southwest California, which is the principal load concentration in an area including Arizona and southern Nevada. If longtime growth rates continue, a load of 12.5-million kw may develop by 1975, with only 3.1-million kw of ultimate hydro resources. With a total energy requirement of 71.2-billion kwhr and only 16.4-billion kwhr from hydro, 77 per cent of the energy would have to be supplied by thermal generation."
"THE effect of corona on traveling waves is to retard any given point on a voltage wave above the corona threshold value by an amount proportional to the distance traveled. Thus the effect is equivalent to a reduction in velocity. If a linear circuit can be characterized by assigning to it a certain inductance L and capacitance C, per unit length, then a wave impressed upon such a circuit will propagate along the circuit with a velocity v, such that"
"Continuous development work on magnetic air circuit breakers has produced many outstanding changes, as is demonstrated by this electrically and mechanically improved design. Its better operation and reliability is verified by test data."
"PUNCHED-CARD ACCOUNTING EQUIPMENT is used by the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA) in the calculation and tabulation of load forecasts."
"A LOGIC CIRCUIT is defined as a collection of coincidence and mixing circuits, “and” and “or” circuits, used in a computer or switching system to make a decision based on the condition of the input leads and memory of the system. Such circuits can be realized simply with the use of semiconductor diodes."
"The author outlines the new NEMA suggested standards for d-c motors and generators. The changes described will result in a simplified standard which is realistic in terms of current requirements and practices. The reasoning behind these changes is discussed in detail."
"The author outlines some of the pressing technological problems facing the world and the responsibilities which they impose on the engineering profession. Recommendations for a thorough appraisal by the Engineers' Council for Professional Development are proposed."
"The concept of standardization, which has been successful in the field of basic electronic components, is being extended to cover electronic circuits. Steps which have been taken in this direction by the National Bureau of Standards are described."
"THE RELATIVELY NARROW BAND FM communication receivers designed for use in mobile equipment are subject to disturbances caused by ignition systems in automobiles as well as to other disturbances of a similar transient nature. R-f signals are radiated from such ignition systems and these noise signals combine with the desired carrier to produce impulse-noise interference. When the disturbances are of a magnitude considerably greater than the desired information signal, and assuming that the receiver operates in accordance with the theoretical principles of frequency modulation, the receiver will respond only to the transient noise signal for the duration of the noise impulses. This results in receiver “blanking.” If the disturbing signal is of approximately the same amplitude as the desired signal, the two signals combine in the receiver to produce sudden changes in phase. These sudden phase variations result in large frequency excursions at the discriminator and cause shock excitation of the audio section of the receiver. Thus, when the interfering signal is either greater than or approximately equal to the amplitude of the desired signal, information will be lost. It is, therefore, desirable to design the frequency-selective elements in such a manner as to minimize this type of interference."
"The three ingredients and the procedures for manufacturing metal-clad laminates are discussed. Processing methods are varied, but most utilize some form of photoetching or silk screening. Present and future civilian applications of printed circuits also receive attention."
"THE ADOPTION of higher secondary voltages in commercial areas involves careful consideration of suitable voltage spreads and, correspondingly, the plausible voltage levels for supplying utilization equipment. There is urgent need for the industry to select a level that will be generally suitable and acceptable, to avoid a variety of voltages in various parts of the country and a variety of equivalent ratings."
"IN RECENT YEARS an increasing amount of use has been made of “gate type” lockout circuits in telephone switching systems where a call, in the process of being completed, must pass temporarily through one or more control devices. Under such conditions, some delay occurs before service is given to the component connected to the gate. One of the purposes of the gate lockout circuit is to provide an equitable distribution of delays, where delays are unavoidable."
"A BUST of Guglielmo Marconi, executed by the noted Italian sculptor Pietro Montana, was presented by him to the AIEE in a brief ceremony in the lobby of the Engineering Societies Building, New York, N. Y., October 11. The bust will be placed in the Engineers' Hall of Fame, along with the portraits and sculptures of other great engineers and scientists."
"AGAIN THIS YEAR the Hotels Statler and Governor Clinton, New York, N. Y., will be used for the Winter General Meeting, January 30 to February 3, 1956."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A RESOLUTION recommending that the Engineers' Council for Professional Development (ECPD) sponsor a comprehensive survey of the engineering profession was proposed at the Twenty-Third Annual Meeting of ECPD held at the King Edward Hotel, Toronto, Ont., Canada, on October 13–14, 1955."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"THE LAUNCHING of the supercarrier U.S.S. Forrestal at Newport News, Va., introduced a new advance in naval communications systems. Backbone of the ship's communications is a long-range, ultrahigh-frequency radio system which provides a vital “lifeline” between the 60,000-ton vessel and its fleet of approximately 90 aircraft."
"REGULATIONS TO PROTECT workers in NewYork State from on-the-job hazards of atomic energy and other radiation have been adopted by the Board of Standards and Appeals and will become effective on December 15. The new regulations, to be enforced by the safety and industrial hygiene staffs of the New York State Department of Labor, are Industrial Code Rule No. 38."
"CONSERVATION OF FUEL under operating temperatures sometimes exceeding 1,000 F is a challenging requirement in two Ohio River steam-electric generating plants now nearing completion."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"DISCOVERY OF A NEW ATOMIC particle, the anti-proton, which may inaugurate a new era of nuclear research was announced jointly by the University of California and the Atomic Energy Commission. (AEC)."
"AN ELECTRONIC RANGE—most revolutionary development in home cooking since introduction of electricity—has become a reality for the American housewife with offer of the first production models available to the nation's consumers by The Tappan Stove Company."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"THE abridged budget statement for the year beginning October 1, 1954, was approved at the last meeting of the Board of Directors, after long consideration and study by the Finance Committee. It reflects an expected deficit of $105,900 after full extension of all present Institute services to its members. In the face of continuing intent to broaden and extend these services to an expanding membership, it also emphasizes the serious need to bring our financial operations into balance."
"PROGRESS in electrical engineering has been widespread in 1954, as reported by 26 of the Institute's technical committees, covering its five broad divisions of activity."
"Even though one connected with electric equipment manufacturing is close to the problems that beset both the coal industry and the electrical utility, never the less, he is in a unique position to consider them in an objective way. It is from such a position of objectivity that President Monteith reviews the future of coal in the electrical utility industry."
"The evolution of the National Electrical Code—a collection of minimum requirements to safeguard people, buildings, and building contents from the hazards arising from the use of electricity—is traced. In addition the way minimum requirements for emergency lighting were introduced into the Code is discussed."
"PRECISE CALCULATIONS are seldom justified in the determination of the sags and the tensions of transmission lines, because the effect of many of the variables bearing on tension are indeterminate: no practical equation exactly describes a suspended cable; the conditions of conductor loading are, of necessity, idealized; the elastic properties of conductors are not constant; and additional errors are inevitable during construction. However, the catenary is taken as the form assumed by a suspended cable, the equation of which is $y=C\\ {\\rm cosh}{x\\over C}$."
"James Clerk Maxwell, physicist and electrical experimenter, mathematically developed the nature of an electromagnetic field and related it to the nature of light. His work led to the discovery of electric waves and the mechanical pressure of light."
"CENTRAL station auxiliary motors are designed to carry their rated loads with specified terminal voltage and frequency. Experience has shown that, in most cases, a 10-percent-reduction in voltage will not prevent motors from carrying normal load or cause dangerous heating."
"THE ADVENT of transistors and junction diodes and their incorporation into telephone equipment has increased the importance of the regulated metallic rectifier as a source of low-voltage d-c power. It has been found possible to replace vacuum tube and magnetic amplifier regulating circuits in these power supplies with equivalent, and usually more compact and efficient, semiconductor apparatus.1"
"Since controlled nuclear fission was first demonstrated 12 years ago, great progress has been made in the development of nuclear power. Practical reactor materials and coolants, classification of reactors, and three reactor types are discussed in the first part of this 2-section article."
"New developments in the power-line carrier system have resulted in increased operating ranges, improved noise characteristics, and greater reliability of equipment, so that it has progressed far beyond the original concepts of those first associated with it."
"A NEW APPROACH in the form of remarkably simple formulas for the determination of incremental transmission losses in electric power systems has been advanced by Brownlee.1 He derived the formulas for the simplest possible transmission system of two generators connected by a single transmission line, and then showed that they were applicable to practical power systems by working out some numerical cases. Brownlee's formulas are functions of the phase angles of the generator bus voltages, so that their application is restricted to those cases where the phase angles are known, such as a-c network analyzer studies."
"A system for evaluating electron tubes for audio-frequency impulse noise and microphonism has been developed with easily constructed and duplicated apparatus. The procedure is objective, reproducible, and repeatable."
"A SIMPLE MEANS of measuring the electric resistance of a-c energized windings has long been desired, inasmuch as it would permit the determination of winding temperatures while the windings are operating under actual load conditions."
"IF a suitable voltage is applied to 2 electrodes, the gas between them may be made to break down and a time lag, which may vary considerably, will elapse between the application of voltage and the subsequent breakdown process. This time lag is attributed to the fact that the free electrons which initiate the breakdown process are produced at random by radioactive materials in the earth's crust or in the air, and by cosmic rays."
"The objective in developing this point-contact transistor test set was to measure the important performance characteristics of point-contact transistors intended for use in large-signal applications of the pulse and switching circuit type. Its compact easy-to-use construction utilizes instruments readily available in any laboratory."
"IN planning future load capabilities for a system having integrated transmission and distribution facilities, it is important that the economic limits be known for supplying the system's reactive loads with shunt capacitors. In the majority of the many cases1,2 dealing with the economics of capacitor application, treatment is made of only the resulting benefits to a particular portion of the system, or to a particular item of system costs, such as the savings in losses. A true evaluation of load power factor correction should, however, include all the simultaneously resulting benefits from the location of the capacitor back to the alternate source of reactive supply. The over-all benefits should be appraised on the basis of: 1. Costs for facilities to generate with synchronous equipment, transmit, and distribute reactive loads. 2. Costs for compensation of voltage regulation caused by the transmission and distribution of reactive loads. 3. Costs for losses. 4. Costs incurred because of changes in system stability limits."
"THE best ways to measure the dielectric properties of materials with high dielectric constant are described throughout the frequency range from 100 to 1,000 mc. The principles of measurement of dielectric properties at ultrahigh frequencies are well established. They are based on measurement of voltage standing wave ratio and location of standing wave pattern, which results from reflection of electromagnetic energy from the dielectric sample."
"The AIEE Winter General Meeting to be held at the Hotels Statler and Governor Clinton in New York, N. Y., January 31-February 4, 1955, will feature one of the largest technical programs in the history of the Institute. The social activities, for which the Winter General Meeting also is known, again will be one of the outstanding features. A group of varied and interesting inspection trips has been arranged, too, closely allied with the technical sessions."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A 2-day national conference on transistor circuits will be held in Philadelphia, February 17–18, Thursday and Friday, under the joint sponsorship of the Science and Electronics Division of AIEE, the Professional Group on Circuit Theory of the Institute of Radio Engineers, and the University of Pennsylvania. The 1955 Conference is patterned after the first one held a year ago."
"Application of aluminum in electric equipment and in transmission and distribution systems, reports on experience with aluminum conductors, and inspection trips of plants in the local Pittsburgh area are planned for AIEE's Electrical Utilization of Aluminum Conference. This meeting will take place on March 15, 16, and 17, 1955, at the William Penn Hotel, Pittsburgh, Pa."
"The First General Assembly of Engineers Joint Council (EJC) will b e held January 21, 1955, in the Hotel Statler, New York, N. Y. The basic theme of the meeting will be the increase of unity in the profession. Forums will be held on nuclear developments, employment conditions, manpower, and EJC objectives."
"The Western Computer Conference and Exhibit will be held at the Statler Hotel, Los Angeles, Calif., March 1,2, and 3. Sponsors are: AIEE, Institute of Radio Engineers, and the Association for Computing Machinery."
"Sponsored jointly by AIEE, the Institute of Radio Engineers, and the Instrument Society of America, the Seventh Annual Conference on Electrical Techniques in Medicine and Biology was held Nov. 10–12, 1954, at the Morrison Hotel, in Chicago. More than 150 participants were in attendance. This was the seventh time that electrical engineers and electronics experts met with researchers in the fields of medicine, biology, and biophysics to exchange viewpoints and discuss problems of mutual interest."
"Over 200 electrical engineers, plant engineers, and textile mill representatives were at North Carolina State College in Raleigh, N. C., for the Atlantie Textile Conference, November 4–5."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"The smartest electronic “brain” ever built was demonstrated recently by International Business Machines Corporation. No other computer in existence can match its speed and productive capacity in solving vital defense problems, some requiring literally billions of computations. The big computer, called the NORC, for Naval Ordnance Research Calculator, was built for the Navy's Bureau of Ordnance at the Watson Laboratory operated by IBM at Columbia University."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"President Dwight D. Eisenhower formally dedicated the Boulder (Colorado) Laboratories of the National Bureau of Standards recently. The dedication climaxed a week-long program of scientific conferences and lectures, an open house, and other activities held in connection with the opening of the new laboratories. Also participating in the program were Secretary of Commerce Sinclair Weeks; Dr. Allen V. Astin, Director of the National Bureau of Standards; and Dr. Frederick W. Brown, Director of the Boulder Laboratories."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"IN his article in the January issue of Electrical Engineering, C. S. Purnell, Chairman of the Finance Committee, pointed out that the budget for the year beginning October 1, 1954, anticipates a deficit of about $106,000. In the calendar of the Institute, a budget year overlaps portions of two fiscal years. It has been done that way in an attempt to make the budget year coincide approximately with the period during which the Institute committees function. The fiscal year starts on May 1. It is the year for which the member pays his dues and in return receives the publications and other benefits of membership."
"Answers to the questions on Employment Conditions recently sent to AIEE members have been tabulated, and the results are given in this summary. According to the returns, participation represented a good cross section of membership throughout the country."
"The trial run of the Engineers' Council for Professional Development's professional development program in the city of Cincinnati, Ohio, which has the full co-operation of industry, the universities, and the professional societies, is receiving nation wide attention. As honorary chairman of the Training Committee, President Monteith reviews the objectives, activities, and progress of the Council in this undertaking."
"Among engineers, their professional status is one of today's live questions. That question is frequently dismissed with a statement that each engineer must improve his individual status by acting and living in a professional manner—that only thus will the status of the profession as a whole be improved. Some observations of Dean Freund, presented in this brief and thought-provoking article, point out that the above is not the whole story; that most engineers are employees; that their employers can make a real contribution to improving the status of the profession; and that such a contribution would be in the enlightened self-interest of such employers. I commend Dean Freund's article to the thoughtful consideration of the membership of the Institute."
"PREVENTING the formation of ice on outside surfaces of aircraft windshields is a serious problem to the designers of all-weather aircraft. The development of a transparent conductive film∗ which can be applied to a glass surface promises to offer an ultimate solution to this problem. By means of the transparent conductive film, electric energy can be dissipated near the windshield surface resulting in excellent deicing characteristics."
"The electrical utility industry has a need for more extensive research activities to investigate basic problems and to provide for its long-range needs. Such a program should attract the interest of engineering students, who oftentimes believe that the power industry offers little opportunity for creativeness."
"Are the future electrical engineers being trained broadly enough in the sciences? This question has been given serious study at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, with the result that major changes have been made in the undergraduate electrical curriculum, so as to better equip the students with technical substance and professional vision."
"The application of atomic power to the C-4 Mariner-Class cargo vessel is analyzed in some detail. It shows that at present nuclear power cannot compete on a strictly economic basis with conventional power plants. However, other factors such as weight, space, speed, and range considerations would also enter into any complete evaluation of the application of atomic power for marine purposes."
"THE 100-megawatt rectifier station at the Robert P. Patterson Plant of the Reynolds Metals Company is the largest concentration of d-c power on a single bus in this country. Power for the plant is obtained from 24 double-Y ignitron rectifier assemblies, each rated at 5,208 amperes and 800 volts. In March 1954, an extensive field-test program, involving both load switching and arc backs, was conducted at this rectifier station."
"IN most studies of power system disturbances made on the a-c network analyzer, the transient rotor saliency of the synchronous machines is neglected. The validity of this assumption is well established. However, in some cases it has been desirable to measure the variations in several of the bus voltages during the disturbance. When the bus is electrically near to a synchronous machine (in the limit, when the voltage in question is at the terminals of one of the synchronous machines), the validity of neglecting saliency may be questioned."
"Within the past few years more attention has been paid to increasing and bettering illumination in work areas. While progress has been made in outdoor lighting, there is room for improvement in those exteriors where 24-hour operations need adequate lights. Although this article applies to a refinery, there are ideas applicable to many industries."
"UNDER certain conditions, the heart may lose its rhythmic pumping action and cease the circulation of blood. This situation is known as ventricular fibrillation and may occur during surgical procedures or as a consequence of electric shock. Normal heart action may be restored by passing an electric current of suitable characteristics through the heart. In the operating room, defibrillation is accomplished by applying electrodes to the heart directly and passing a 60-cycle alternating-current of from 1.5 to 2 amperes through the heart (120 to 135 volts). When fibrillation results from an electric shock received under field conditions, electrodes cannot be applied to the heart directly but may be applied to the surface of the body to permit sufficient current to flow through the heart to effect defibrillation. In animal experiments with electrodes at the chest,1 defibrillation has been accomplished reliably by the use of 60-cycle alternating-current, 480 volts, 15 amperes applied for periods up to about 1 second. Such a current first brings the heart to a standstill; upon interruption of the current, the heart will usually resume its pumping action provided the elapsed time between the onset of fibrillation and the application of defibrillation current is not excessive."
"THE analysis of magnetic amplifiers through the use of difference equations will result in a different view of the mechanics of operation of the magnetic amplifier. It shows that all magnetic amplifiers operate upon the same basic principles, and that these basic principles are demonstrated by the operation of the basic half-cycle response magnetic amplifier shown in Fig. 1. The purpose of the analysis presented in this article is only to clarify these basic principles."
"The Department on Organization in an oil company was created to perform the function of organization planning. Surveys conducted by this department have resulted in many significant organizational improvements throughout the company."
"As the scientific field expands, especially that of electrical engineering mathematics, the number of specialized logarithms in use has been increasing. How should they be labeled? How should their magnitude be expressed? Here is one answer."
"ONE of the most powerful mathematical methods for analysis of sampled-data systems is known as the z-transformation method. The z-transform is obtained by substituting z for est in the Laplace transform of the sequence of samples. C(z) is obtained in closed form with the aid of Table I."
"Maintenance is a broad subject and not exclusively confined to electrical installations. However, so as to be of practical value to electrical engineers, this article is confined to this field."
"A 2-PHASE induction motor is inherently a nonlinear device, but normal practice in the design of servomechanisms has been to represent it with a linear transfer function. This is obtained by assuming that the speed versus torque curves of the motor, for fixed reference field voltage and various values of control field voltage, are parallel straight lines."
"FRACTIONAL-HORSEPOWER synchronous motors are generally available for quantity production in only the reluctance or hysteresis types. The reasons for this are: the simplicity of their rotor constructions, because of the omission of d-c excitation; and the possibility of assembling the rotors of either type in standard induction motor frames. Unfortunately, these advantages are offset by inferior performance characteristics, such as low efficiency, low-power factor, and low output, when compared to that of the same size induction motor. The locked rotor torque is also low and in the reluctance type, extremely variable."
"As the growth of nuclear power is very rapid, it is expected that a large percentage of large new base load plants built by 1975 will be nuclear fueled. Two reactor types, reactor technical problems, and power costs are discussed in the second part of this 2-section article."
"TREMENDOUS advances have been made in semiconductor technology during the past 5 years. One of the many fields to benefit from this progress has been power rectification. The extended area, germanium junction diode is now a reality. The possibility of using silicon instead of germanium to provide greater freedom from ambient temperature limitations looks promising. These new rectifying elements have improved the size, weight, efficiency, and reliability of rectifier equipments. To keep pace with the rectifying elements, there is need for corresponding improvements in regulating circuitry. It is the author's belief that this challenge will be met by the wider application of semiconductor devices in regulating circuits. This digest shows some uses of these devices in the feedback loop of a regulated metallic rectifier. For a more general treatment of this subject, see reference 1."
"ANALYTICAL expressions for the resistance to infinite ground are found in the technical literature for simple shapes of ground electrodes and wires.1 The present digest aims to establish generally applicable relations for the resistance of more complex configurations such as grids and rodbeds."
"It has been the unanimous opinion of the AIEE Committee on Safety that if the colleges are operating in a manner which does not bring the students' attention to the importance of safety, then those students are not being prepared properly for their work in industry. This is how one college is handling this important part of the curriculum."
"THIS publication is the result of the efforts of the Joint Subcommittee on Telemetering Terminology of AIEE and IRE (The Institute of Radio Engineers) to foster a common nomenclature in the various branches of telemetering. Sponsored by the AIEE through the Committee on Instruments and Measurements and its Group Subcommittee on Telemetering, and by the IRE through the Professional Group of Telemetry and Remote Control, it is not intended to be all inclusive. This sponsorship is not intended to imply agreement by the sponsoring groups with the definitions as given, nor is it intended in any way to convey approval of, or a preference for, these definitions or terminology. It is hoped that it will aid personnel in the compilation of telemetering reports and be of assistance when telemetering specifications are drafted by industrial and government establishments. It is essentially that submitted at the Workshop Session of the National Telemetering Conference in Chicago, May 1954, at the Hotel Morrison, which was sponsored by AIEE, IRE, IAS (Institute of Aeronautical Sciences), and ISA (Instrument Society of America)."
"THE advantages of using silicone-based products in dry-type insulating systems are well known. They are characterized by stability at high operating temperatures and by resistance to the absorption and harmful effects of moisture. These advantages must be weighed against the difficulties which may arise in conjunction with silicone applications. The dielectric strength, mechanical strength, and curing characteristics for a given application are, in general, inferior to those of the best organic resins. High cost is also a limiting factor in many silicone applications."
"THIS analogue computing technique uses direct currents as variables. These currents are summed by magnetic amplifiers to perform addition and subtraction operations. Products, quotients, roots, and powers are obtained by summing other currents that are proportional to the logarithms of the variables. These logarithmic currents are obtained by networks of 5 germanium or silicon diodes and 11 precision resistors. As the input current increases, the diodes in the circuit cut in sequentially to shape the output current according to a logarithmic curve. A voltage is supplied to a voltage divider in the network controlling the switching points of these diodes."
"More than 1,750 engineers and others in the computer field attended the Eastern Joint Computer Conference, December 8–10, the largest registration in the history of the conference. The conference, sponsored by AIEE, the Institute of Radio Engineers, and the Association for Computing Machinery, took place at the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel, Philadelphia, Pa."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The utilization of electricity on modern poultry, dairy, and livestock farms will be discussed by outstanding authorities at AIEE's Conference on Farm Electrification. This conference will be held March 8–10, 1955, at the Morrison Hotel in Chicago, Ill."
"The first national conference on the electrical utilization of aluminum will be held in Pittsburgh, Pa., March 15–17, 1955, with headquarters at the William Penn Hotel. This conference will be jointly sponsored by t h e AIEE Power Division Committee and the AIEE Pittsburgh Section."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"The Whiting Loadair is a mechanical device which docks a commercial airplane by moving it sideways to a covered pier or dock. For the first time passengers will be able to board a plane directly from an airport terminal building without being exposed to the weather. Baggage will be handled for the first time from plane to baggage claim area by means of conveyors directly."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Another step forward in scientific progress was made in the General Electric Company's research laboratory with the discovery of a light amplifier without the use of electron tubes. An experimental phosphor screen, across which an electric field was set up, emitted ten times the amount of light than was incident upon it."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"President Monteith believes Institute membership will double in the next 15 years. Present membership, future projects, and particularly a unity organization to raise the professional stature of all engineers are emphasized in his Winter Meeting address."
"Since the advent of the vacuum tube we have become accustomed to marvels coming from research laboratories. There have been tape-recorded color television, a light amplifier, an electronic cooling system, and the latest: an electronic music synthesizer."
"Research and development go together in any industry. In the electrical utilities field their areas cover basic scientific knowledge and power generation, distribution, and utilization. Although this industry has made giant strides ahead, progress demands continued research."
"To avoid difficulties sometimes encountered in cable testing with high-voltage alternating current provided from cascade-connected transformers, a series circuit with variable inductances tuned to the cable's capacitance at 50 cycles is used in this European laboratory."
"The history of communication across the North Atlantic is traced briefly. The basic design features of the cable and repeater are discussed as well as the Key West-Havana cables and British shallow-water experience before a description of the complete system is given."
"AKNOWLEDGE of the voltage gradient which exists at the surface of a transmission-line conductor is necessary in many instances. This knowledge is especially important in studies regarding corona losses and radio interference."
"NONLEADED cables for underground systems began to be accepted in the mid 1930's, when the performance-type rubber compounds became available. This type of insulation had very good aging qualities compared with the previously available rubber compounds. These cables were covered with an impregnated cotton-braid jacket which had little insulating value but was intended mainly to provide mechanical protection to the cable while being pulled into the conduit."
"The electric power industry is reviewed briefly, the research that has been done and is being done, as well as areas of research which should be pursued more aggressively. The industry must provide highest service reliability at the lowest cost consistent with sound practice. Any research holding promise of fostering this objective should be considered carefully and encouraged either directly or indirectly."
"THE John Fritz Medal has been termed one of the highest awards in the engineering profession. The stature of such a long-established award stems from two sources. The first is the reputation and character of the man in whose honor it is named and the merited affection and esteem which led his friends to establish such a memorial to him."
"AUTHOR, engineer, salesman, administrator, industry leader, government advisor, inventor, manpower developer, scientist, educator, humanitarian, American—Harry Alonzo Winne has contributed a thousandfold to the constructive advancement of the electrical industry and the nation as a whole."
"MY feelings at this moment are very mixed. Naturally, I am very proud to receive the John Fritz Medal, an honor that rightly is very highly regarded in the engineering field. But I have also a feeling of very deep humility, for I know, better than anyone else possibly can, that the engineering accomplishments which this presentation today recognizes were brought about not by me, but by the cooperative effort of the hundreds—yes, thousands—of my associates, most of whom are, or have been, part of the engineering organization of the General Electric Company in which I spent my active business life. I wish all of them could be here today and participate in this recognition, which so largely belongs to them."
"“for his personal contributions to the science and art which have made possible a transatlantic telephone cable; for wide leadership of a great industrial laboratory; for outstanding services to the government of his country”"
"A CAREFUL SELECTION of his ancestors has been called a man's most important act in building a successful life. But we are now told the environment which surrounds him in childhood is of equal importance in determining his character."
"IT is with great gratitude that I accept this medal which commemorates the name of one who brought light to shed on all. If some of its luster is reflected on the Bell Telephone Laboratories I can accept it the more happily, for it is to Bell Laboratories, where I served for many years, and to its members and its sponsors, that I owe all that is symbolized by the bestowal of this honor on me. I could speak at great length about the accomplishments of that organization, but I would rather take this occasion to make some observations about the man for whom the medal is named and about some of his works."
"ALTHOUGH heating is one of the chief limitations in the rating of induction machines, present methods of predicting heating leave much to be desired. Articles have been written on the subject of heating of very large motors and generators,1,2 but relatively little appears to have been done toward developing accurate and comprehensive methods for calculating the heating of National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) frame size machines. Unfortunately, the methods developed for large machines are not well suited, as for smaller machines."
"The important electrical properties of lead sulphide detectors are given, emphasizing resistance, noise, signal, and sensitivity. The functional dependence of these properties upon bias current, frequency, temperature, humidity, size, shape, background radiation, and wavelength of the incident radiation is included where possible."
"A series of animal experiments are reported that indicate the superiority of a-c defibrillation over the use of capacitor discharge or serial defibrillation in stopping fibrillation. However, the rapidity with which the procedure is instituted is crucial."
"Because of the hazardous nature of nuclear reactors, much automatic and remotely controlled machinery is employed. As the machinery and the reactor itself must be adequately serviced, it is this maintenance which presents personnel health problems."
"THE force developed by a d-c electromagnet decreases rapidly as the gap is increased. To provide sufficient excitation to develop the force required at open gap and yet not overheat the coil, 2-section coils are used. A normally closed cutout switch is used either to insert the holding coil in series with the pickup coil, or to disconnect the pickup coil if the two sections are connected in parallel in the circuit."
"The operation of gas burners can be controlled by thermoelectric shutoff devices energized by a pilot flame. By superposing alternating current on the thermoelectric current, these devices can be made to operate in response to other situations in addition to pilot flame condition."
"Attention is called to the fundamentals of the nuclear reactor art as it is practiced. Special attention is given to certain problems which confront electrical engineers who are responsible for the control of nuclear reactors."
"Three typical engineering problems solved by the IBM (International Business Machines Corporation) Scientific Computation Laboratory are given. They demonstrate approaches that might be used in the solution of many similar problems. The use of computers can lead to different approaches to problems thus yielding valuable results more quickly and economically."
"SUBTRANSMISSION systems can be grounded through a solid connection, a reactance, a resistance, or a combination of the latter two. In selecting a grounding method it is necessary to consider the following: ground relaying sensitivity, magnitude of ground fault currents, degree of overvoltage protection obtained from the arrester rating applicable, severity of transient overvoltages, and relative cost."
"LIMITATIONS in the design of high-performance magnetic amplifiers have often been attributed to imperfections in the magnetic amplifier core and rectifier characteristics. Yet, in some instances, the useful operation of the magnetic amplifier has been the result of the existence of these same so-called imperfections. Evaluation and understanding of the parameters of the material imperfections can point the way toward utilization of the characteristics that have been regarded as the limiting factors in the amplifier performance. As an example, rectifier capacitance and leakage current tend to reduce over-all amplifier gain. At the same time, inductive loading of some circuits creates additional positive feedback and instability. By adjusting the negative feedback caused by rectifier leakage current and capacitance, these inductively loaded circuits can be made to give stable high-gain performance."
"Experimental operation of a prototype textile automation machine utilizing a 5-unit telegraph system has shown that the design has valid justification beyond that of availability. Its adaptability to this application is clearly indicated."
"The AIEE Winter General Meeting was held at the Statler Hotel, New York, N. Y., January 31-February 4, 1955, with a number of the technical session overflowing into the Governor Clinton Hotel. The registration was approximately 4,650 members and guests, which was only a little short of last year's record registration."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Attendance at Section meetings was of principal concern in the discussion which took place on a wide variety of problems with W. R. Hough, chairman of the Sections Committee, presiding. In opening the meeting, the chairman explained that this was not an official meeting, but the conference provided an opportunity for an exchange of information which might indicate ways in which the Institute could be of service to the Sections—and to cry stallize topics for the agenda of the official Section Delegate Conference to be held during the forthcoming Summer General Meeting in Swamp scott, Mass. The Section activities were reported to be at a high level."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"Color television of government-approved standards was used for the first time recently as a means of intercity consultation and diagnosis by pathologists in combating disease. This presentation was conducted jointly by the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology (AFIP) and the Radio Corporation of America (RCA)."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The devoting of part of this issue of the PGCT Transactions to the topic of time-varying networks reflects a growing interest in systems other than the familiar linear, time-invariant, lumped-constant network. Much of this interest is stimulated by problems arising in the fields of automatic control and communication — problems that encompass the analysis and synthesis of a wide variety of systems that are not linear and time-invariant."
"THE GENERAL theory of electric circuits whose component parameters are linear and constant has been extensively developed and is well understood. In recent years, considerable attention and effort has been directed to the analysis and performance of circuits whose parameters vary with the time. Many of the most important and interesting problems of circuit theory involve variable. parameters. For example, the equivalent circuits of the microphone transmitter, the condenser microphone, the induction generator, the superregenerator and of many other practical devices contain parameters that are time-varying. Many systems in mechanical and acoustical engineering in which the compliance or the inertia parameters vary with the time lead to the same mathematical formulation of their behavior as do the time-varying circuit problems."
"LET $\\bar f$ (an overbarred letter) denote the operator of a linear system; x(τ) an input signal, which depends on time τ and y(t) the output response, as recorded at time t. The functional relationship between x(τ) and y(t) will be written $y = {\\bar f} x. \\eqno{\\hbox{(1)}}$."
"THE GENERAL problem of transmitting signals through linear systems in which one or more parameters vary periodically with time has an extensive literature. One widely used method is based on Fourier series representation of the varying parameters. This leads to an infinite number of simultaneous linear equations expressing the relations between the coefficients in the corresponding Fourier series representation of the steady-state response. The solution of the equations can be expressed in terms of determinants of infinite order which in turn can be evaluated by various approximation techniques. In practical cases it is often permissible to neglect all but a few dominant components; the number of equations is thereby made finite and reasonably small."
"THE USE OF integral transforms to solve dynamical problems in physics and engineering has received considerable prominence in the last half century. Integral transforms have, since their usefulness was discovered by Heaviside in the late nineteenth century, gone through the cycle of: (1) rigorization of technique;1, 2 (2) tabulation of many specific transform pairs;3, 4 and (3) generalization of transform methods.5–8. In the present paper on extension of this generalization will be made which is applicable only to time series and its use precludes the acceptance of the fundamental postulate of cause and effect. That is, the present response anywhere in a physical system can in no way depend on future values of a stimulus elsewhere in the system."
"THE INVESTIGATION of general communication systems usually starts by considering a black box, N, with an input u and an output v (see Fig. 1). We express the relation between u and v symbolically by the equation $v = N_u. \\eqno{\\hbox{(1)}}$ (1)"
"THE APPLICATION of complex symbolism to linear fixed networks (i.e. networks governed by linear differential equations with constant coefficients) is effective by virtue of the fact that the principle of superposition is applicable to such networks. The same principle is applicable also to linear variable networks (i.e. networks governed by linear differential equations with coefficients that are dependent on time, but not on current or voltage). This suggests that it must also be possible to make use of the complex symbolism in the case of linear variable networks."
"ASA logical continuation of the studies of systems with fixed parameters, there has been increasing interest in systems whose parameters are functions either of the dependent variable (nonlinear systems) or of the independent variable (time-varying systems). A general approach to the analysis of time-varying systems is so difficult, that at the present stage of development in this field one is restricted to the solution of relatively simple problems arising in practical applications."
"THE SMALL-signal theory of rectifier modulators is normally developed by assuming that rectifiers switch periodically from their forward to their backward resistance, neglecting the capacitive component of the backward impedance. Such a resistive theory has been quite invaluable to compare the performance of various circuits and especially to study the effect of selective terminations.1 It is well established, however, that capacitive effects are not negligible, and become quite important at high frequencies. For small dissipation, the resistive and capacitive losses clearly add up without interaction, so that it will be sufficient for practical purposes to develop the theory for ideal rectifiers (zero forward and infinite backward impedance) shunted by a parasitic capacitance C. The Cowan modulator of Fig. 1 is then equivalent to a periodic switch shunted by C (Fig. 2). Similarly; a well-known equivalence for lattice networks reduces the ring modulator of Fig. 3, next page (with ideal auto transformers) to an ideal commutator enclosed between two capacitances C (Fig. 4, on the following page). The first step is to develop the theory of the linear variable 4-poles of Figs. 2 and 4 working between purely resistive and frequency independent source and load. The next important case of selective terminations has not yet been attacked."
"IN RECENT years an extensive body of mathematical techniques has been developed for the analysis of the response of linear constant coefficient control systems to stationary random processes as inputs. In many cases it is possible to achieve direct synthesis of the optimum system for an assigned task. For nonstationary inputs or variable coefficient systems, no corresponding theory exists, even though problems of this nature arise quite often in practice. In the present paper an analog method is presented for the rms error analysis of a class of nonstationary problems. However, no attempt is made at the synthesis of an optimum system. Following a brief discussion of analog methods applicable to the general nonstationary case, our attention is concentrated on the special problem of a variable coefficient linear system with a stationary random input. Exploitation of the properties of the adjoint system in this case is shown to reduce considerably the labor in computing rms errors in comparison with the general method for nonstationary inputs. The simulation of the adjoint system is shown to be readily obtainable from the simulation of the original system."
"IN RECENT years time-varying circuits have attracted considerable attention in the literature,1 but little seems to have been done2 for those cases in which the input to such circuits is a random one."
"THE BASIC idea of frequency memory is conveniently illustrated by Fig. 1 in which it is assumed that the antiresonant circuits are of comparable selectivity and impedance and are tuned to frequencies that are unrelated but of the same order of magnitude. Oscillation at either f1 or f2 can be initiated by supplying to the input a signal of suitable magnitude and the desired frequency. An input of short duration suffices, for once started the oscillation persists without change until the other frequency is injected or the power is turned off. That is, the circuit remembers the frequency of the last input. The output may be taken from other points, but the plate node is particularly convenient."
"IN RECENT years a great deal of attention has been given to the general theory and performance of circuits the parameters of which are functions of the time. The mathematical analysis of circuits of this type leads to the solution of linear differential equations with variable coefficients. Examples of linear time-varying circuits of practical importance occur in the theory of electrical communications. Frequency modulation circuits, for example, involve variations of capacitance or, to a lesser extent, inductance. The carbon microphone circuit consists of essentially of a variable resistance the value of which is varied by some source of energy outside the circuit. The condenser microphone circuit contains a variable capacitance. Super-regeneration involves circuits that contain a periodically-varying resistance parameter."
"AT FIRST sight, the application of W.K.B. approximation to a time-dependent circuit seems perfectly straightforward. Unfortunately, there are two different and equally plausible ways to apply it to the circuit treated by Pipes, and the two results will generally not agree. The W.K.B. solution of the homogeneous equation (43) contains two arbitrary constants. These can be chosen so that at some particular time τ, q = 0 and dq/dt = 1. Call this solution q1(t, τ). Alternatively, the constants can be chosen so that q = 1 and dq/dt = 0 at time τ. Call this solution q2(t, τ). The response of the system at time t to a unit voltage impulse applied at some earlier time τ is q1(t, τ)/L, hence, by the superposition principle, we get a general solution of the inhomogeneous equation $q_1 (t) = {1 \\over L} \\int_{-\\infty}^t q_1(t, \\tau) E(\\tau) d\\tau. \\eqno{\\hbox{(1)}}$."
"IN THE FREQUENCY range below about 30 cps, the dissipation factors of available inductors are generally too large to permit the practical design of inductance-capacitance (LC) or resistance-inductance-capacitance (RLC) filter networks. The circuits described in the following pages were developed and collected to provide an alternative method of realizing sharp cut-off filters at very low frequencies. In many cases the active elements can be simple cathode-follower circuits that have stable gain, low output impedance and a large dynamic range."
"Frequency Selectors THE SCIENCE of communications is built on waves, amplifiers, and frequency selectors, the last of these being the subject of this monograph. Half a century ago, the electrical resonator and the wave filter were in their early stages of evolution. As they became more familiar, they merged into a unified philosophy embracing frequency selectors of all kinds, not merely electrical but also mechanical, acoustical, etc. A family of frequency selectors having certain desirable properties is the immediate topic."
"IN RECENT years resistance-capacitance filters employing the Wein bridge, the parallel-T and other circuits have come into widespread use for the frequency control of oscillators and tuned amplifiers. Normally two or more ganged components are used for this purpose although a single component control has been used in several variants of an oscillator circuit described by Johnson.1–3 In certain applications, such as low frequency tuned amplifiers, two or more stages of filtering are desirable in order to achieve adequate selectivity together with quick response to changes in amplitude. The problem of ganging the many variable components then becomes formidable. For example, in an actual case which led to this investigation, a tuned amplifier was required to cover the range from 20 to 60 cps with two stages of filtering. A resistance-capacitance filter was sought for this purpose in which frequency could be controlled over a continuous range of 3 to 1 using a minimum number of variable components. The results of this investigation are reported in the present paper where several new bridge and ladder networks are described in which the balance frequency is controlled by means of a single variable component."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The Professional Group on Telemetry and Remote Control is concerned at the loss of large number of scientific and engineering talent from important defense work due to the provisions of the current draft law. This matter was discussed at a recent meeting of our Administrative Committee. The existing law differs from previous legislation so successfully used during World War II."
"The importance of analog simulation to control system analysis and synthesis increases as a function of system complexity. Adaptation of these techniques to sampled-data systems is particularly useful since, in addition to establishing control parameters, determination of proper sampling rate is often critical to system stability. Sampled-data systems are considered which use discontinuous amplitude-modulated data as well as digital processing units. Simulation is determined on the basis of theoretical considerations and relay circuitry is presented which has found effective utilization in analog simulation of sampled-data systems."
"The photographic device to be described was designed for an application of the image converter tube to provide a narrow rectangular field of view and a succession of exposures of the object at fixed time intervals. Its distinctive properties are: exposure time, 0.4 microseconds; frame rate, 200,000 per second; magnification from photocathode to fluorescent screen, 4 times; light gain of unity and electrical synchronization from an external source of either a single frame or a sequence of nine frames, arranged to fall parallel to each other in a row across the face of the tube. The size of the frames is controlled by the width of an input slit."
"Early in 1948 the Douglas Aircraft Co., Inc., M Testing Division, began an investigation to determine a method by which large amounts of flight test data may be accumulated, observed, and recorded in proper form for rapid analytical scrutiny."
"The purpose of this paper is not to give you a mass of technical facts and statistics to mentally masticate, but rather to give you a description of the conception and fruition of a minor telemetering program. The program was minor in the amount of money involved and the number of tests made, but, with others of its kind, it is enormous in its portent. I refer to the development and firing of an all-transistor subminiature telemeter. The initial program culminated a little more than three months ago in the firing of two small round rocket test vehicles at NOTS, China Lake."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The purpose of these Transactions is to provide a convenient means for the expeditious publication of material of particular interest to our specialized group membership. Articles describing new developments in the field of Telemetry and Remote Control as well as survey or tutorial papers can be published in the Transactions within two or three months. This is quite a saving in time as compared to that required by other publication means. While the circulation is only a little under two thousand, the readers include quite a large majority of those working in this field."
"The coding methods used to simplify transmission of remote control data are discussed and classified. On-off control, rate control, incremental control and others are defined and compared. The proper utilization of observation is urged."
"The advent of guided missiles and modern high-speed aircraft has greatly increased both the number of functions for which telemetering is required, and the accuracy and reliability requirements of the telemetering equipment used. This has necessitated the use of pulse time multiplex techniques to provide these requirements with a minimum of transmitting equipment. The two most widely accepted pulse time multiplex systems, standards for which have been established by the Research and Development Board, are those which utilize pulse amplitude modulation (PAM) and pulse width modulation (PWM). User groups in their varied instrumentation programs have found that use of both systems allows greater operational and functional flexibility by providing a more economical means of “fitting” the systems to specific applications. These factors have firmly established a need for a single, versatile automatic data-separation equipment which will operate with the various pulse systems and which is directly adaptable for use with FM/FM receiving systems presently used in the field. This paper presents a discussion on a new data-separation system which was specifically designed to fill this need."
"The problem of data interpolation is one with which most engineers are quite familiar. Many results, obtained from experiments, are presented in the form of graphs, in which a number of measured points have been plotted and a curve has then been drawn through these points to represent the behaviour of the variable between the measured points. In general, such interpolation of data is done by a human being who, either free-hand, or with the help of French curves tries to produce a “smooth” curve which encompasses all the measured points."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The 1955 National Telemetering Conference, held in Chicago last May, proved to be quite successful. Each year seems to bring a small but dramatic enlargement of the conference with correspondingly greater value for participants. Although numbers by no means tell the whole story, this year there were 473 registrations and about 36 exhibitors."
"Since the days of the Wright Brothers the term high-speed flight has been used to denote flight at speeds just within the bounds of practical accomplishment. “High speed” has meant each year since 1903 about 15 miles per hour faster than the year before until October 14, 1947. On that date Charles E. Yeager, then a captain in the U. S. Air Force, flew the Bell X-1 research airplane faster than sound. Since then the word supersonic has become a familiar adjective, descriptive of the speed of certain aircraft and missiles."
"The purpose of this system is to transmit information over a two- or three-wire system for distances of up to a mile or more."
"This paper discusses the technique of “generating” certain analytically-defined mathematical functions by continuously solving a differential equation having the desired function as solution. This principle was first applied to the mechanical differential analyzer, described in the first section. The characteristics of the differential analyzer and the electrical analog computer are compared, and extension of this function generating scheme to the latter machine is discussed. Methods are described for determining a differential equation yielding a given function as its solution. Finally, experimental results obtained on an analog computer are described."
"Silver migration may be defined as a process by which silver, when in contact with insulating materials under electrical potential, is removed ionically from its initial location, and is redeposited as metal at some other location. This process requires adsorption of water on the insulation surface. Silver is unique in this respect in that it is easily oxidized and reduced and does not passivate. Other metals do not present a practical migration hazard. Presented herein are examples of actual experience wherein silver migration caused trouble, and an explanation of this phenomenon based upon chemical and physical considerations and related laboratory evidence. It is concluded that silver should be used with great caution under the conditions noted."
"Previous work on field-effect transistors considered the performance of the device when operated with electric fields in the channel below the critical field, Ec, where the mobility of carriers becomes dependent on field. This work is reviewed and it is shown that, in this range of operation, the frequency cut-off, f, and transconductance, gm, of the device increase with increasing values of electric field. New theory is derived for the performance with electric fields greater than Ec, where the mobility is proportional to E−1/2. It is shown that, although both f and gm continue to increase with electric field in this range, the corresponding increase in the power dissipated is so rapid that such designs are unattractive. It is concluded that a good compromise is to operate with the average channel field equal to Ec. The performance in this particular case is considered in detail and the results summarized in a design nomograph. It is found that f is inversely proportional to the “pinch-off” voltage. The pinch-off voltage cannot, however, be made indefinitely small because the gate junction must be in the saturated condition. A reasonable estimate of the minimum voltage is ½ volt and this leads to a maximum value of f of 1,000 mc/s. A description is given of the fabrication and performance of several field-effect transistors operating in both the constant and non-constant mobility ranges. It is shown that the performance of these units is in agreement with theory. One of these units had a frequency cut-off of 50 mc/s with a transconductance of 1.6 ma/v when operated at 40 volts and 40 ma."
"A new technique is described for the measurement of the power and energy dissipated in the contact gap of a glass-sealed reed relay (switch)∗ on the closure of a special coaxial circuit of which the switch is a part. The method uses two cathode ray oscilloscopes with provisions made to study time intervals of from one microsecond to less than a millimicrosecond. Also, a brief resume is given of some experimental results on a few switches."
"The operating speed of a relay or switch varies with the amount of electrical power supplied to it. For a given device, the speed can be increased by raising the voltage. Since the electrical energy is converted to heat, the speed is usually limited by the heat dissipating characteristics of the device. A means for operating relays and switches on high voltage and then changing the circuit to hold them operated on low voltage is described. The circuit is switched by means of a solid state junction diode. Reduction of relay operate times to half their former values, and reduction of switch operating times to one-third their former values can be obtained with commercial circuits. The wire-spring markers of the No. 5 crossbar system are equipped with dual voltage circuits for speeding the operation of the crossbar switches of the switching network."
"In barrier-grid storage tubes, a cathode ray beam is used to deposit electrostatic charge on a dielectric surface. The same beam is utilized to detect and remove the charge at a later time. This paper describes the mode of operation of such tubes when used for storage of binary digital information. The sources of variation in the output signal are discussed. A basis is given for determining the probability of error due to amplifier noise. The storage capacity and program of operation are determined by the requirement of error-free performance. A discussion is included of data obtained from experimental tubes capable of storing 16,000 bits of information with reading or writing times of about one microsecond. A new type of target-reading circuit which is particularly suited to binary storage is also described."
"Distortion in feedback amplifiers and other non-linear circuits is analyzed for the case where the magnitude and phase of the feedback varies with frequency. The analysis is limited to cases where the distortion products are small compared to the fundamentals and where the non-linear element can be described by a power series having only a few terms. However, many practical amplifiers are adequately described by the analysis. Formulae are derived for a number of third-order products and their dependence upon various feedbacks at second order frequencies is demonstrated."
"Using a simplified model, an analysis of switching networks is presented. Methods for finding characteristics of a network such as blocking probability, retrial and connection-time distributions are given. The problem of equivalent crosspoint minimization is also considered."
"Although the telephone appears to be a relatively simple device, it is in fact one of the more complex elements of the telephone business, primarily because its operation depends on transforming sound waves into electrical waves and vice-versa. This fact makes its performance difficult to evaluate and measure. It is not surprising, therefore, that the problem of evaluation and measurement, that is, of “rating”, has been the subject of much thought and work over many years and that even today widely different methods are used in different parts of the world. The Bell System has done its full share of work in this connection and as the art and state of knowledge have changed, several different rating methods have been used. In the past twenty-five years or so the methods have come almost full circle from “loudness” through “effective transmission” to “loudness” again; but with a significant difference. The earlier ratings (loudness originally, effective later) were always in terms of so many db poorer or better than a standard rating. While this standard was specifically defined, only a few people were sufficiently familiar with it to appreciate thoroughly whether something which was rated, say, 6 db better than the standard was good, bad or indifferent. The new rating system avoids this problem by not having any fixed standard at all. It is based primarily on the ratio of the loudness of the sounds into the listener's ear to the loudness of the sounds out of the talker's mouth but with suitable modifications to take care of factors other than loudness which affect ease of conversation."
"The TD-2 radio relay system spans the continent and provides for transmission of hundreds of telephone conversations or several television programs. The effect of even an occasional failure would be so great that means have been provided to restore service quickly and automatically when a failure occurs. The operation and circuits of this automatic channel protection switching are described."
"The problems of transmission of digital data over commercial telephone lines are studied with particular attention to transmitting telephone numbers over a wide variety of circuits. The electrical characteristics of these lines and the noise present on them are major factors which influence the design of a reliable high-speed data transmission system. A system which takes account of these factors has been designed and tested. The results of tests indicate that it operates reliably on almost all message circuits at a rate of about 650 bits per second with signals occupying the band from 700 to 1,700 cycles."
"New techniques for extruding aluminum directly over paper insulated cable core at low temperature and pressure are described. Pistons operate from opposite ends of a cylinder to force the aluminum through a circular orifice between a die and core-tube located on an axis perpendicular to that of the pistons and midway between them. The inter-relation of extrusion temperature, pressure and rate, as well as the quality of the sheath produced, are found to be dependent on the die and core-tube design. Special lubrication and press charging techniques are discussed."
"Electrical and mechanical techniques are described which have been successfully applied to the design of a reflex klystron operating in the 50,000 to 60,000-mc band. Not only have these techniques resulted in a practical tube operating at the highest frequency yet achieved with a gridded, low voltage reflex klystron, but they point the way to future work at still higher frequencies. The M1805 reflex klystron has a mechanical tuning range of over 10,000 mc and at a beam voltage of 600 volts delivers a maximum CW power of 15–30 milliwatts. Its electron-optical system resulted in a repeller mode exhibiting good symmetry and almost complete absence of electronic hystersis."
"One of the principal sources of interchannel interference in multichannel FM and PM systems is the dependence of the attenuation and phase shift of the transmission path on frequency. Here we study the interference produced by a simple kind of such a dependence, namely that due to a single echo. Besides being important in themselves, the results are of interest because they may be used to estimate the interference in other, more complicated cases. In this paper expressions are derived for the interchannel interference produced by echoes of relatively small amplitude. Several important special cases are studied in detail and curves that simplify the computation of the interference power are presented."
"This paper discusses the optimum design of discrete, directive antenna arrays of arbitrary geometrical configuration in space, when the excitations and spatial positions of the elements vary in a random fashion about their nominal values. Under certain assumptions the expected power pattern of an array turns out to be the power pattern of the nominal array, plus a “background” power level which has the same dependence on direction as the pattern of a single element. A set of excitations which maximizes the theoretical directivity of an array may correspond to a superdirective design, in which the background power level will completely swamp the desired pattern unless the excitations and positions of the elements are controlled with extraordinary precision. A method is given for maximizing the gain of the array while holding the expected background power level constant, when the precision with which the excitations and positions can be controlled is known. The method is illustrated with numerical examples."
"The simple model of a semiconductor, based on a single effective mass for the charge carriers and a spherical shape for the surfaces of constant energy, is now known to be inadequate for most of the semiconductors which have been extensively studied experimentally. However, some of these do correspond to what may be called the “many-valley” model, a model for which the band edge occurs at a number of equivalent points K(i) in wave number space, and for which the surfaces of constant energy are multiple ellipsoids, one centered on each of these points. This paper develops, for models of this type, the theory for: mobility (Section 2) and its temperature dependence (Section 3); thermoelectric power (Section 4); piezoresistance (Section 5); Hall effect (Sections 6 and 9); high-frequency dielectric constant (Section 7); and magnetoresistance (Sections 8 and 9). These phenomena are treated, for cases to which Maxwellian statistics apply, on the assumption that the scattering of the charge carriers is describable by a relaxation time which depends on energy only, but is otherwise unrestricted. This assumption can be shown to be justified in a large class of cases, although for some cases it fails, notably when ionized impurity scattering predominates and at the same time the effective mass is very anisotropic. Special attention is given to the role of inter-valley lattice scattering, i.e., to processes whereby a charge carrier is scattered from the neighborhood of one of the band edge points"
"The critical function performed by the 2504A transformer in the L3 coaxial carrier telephone system necessitated the use of completely new materials and of methods radically different from those usually associated with carrier telephone transformer production. To satisfy operational requirements, extensive use has been made of parts machined from ceramic and glass insulating materials which can now be machined to very close dimensional tolerances. A description is given of the equipment and techniques which were developed to produce these transformers on a commercial basis, and their effectiveness is evaluated."
"Improvements in the operating speed, efficiency, compactness and contact reliability of relays may be obtained from the application of sealed-in-glass reed switches. This paper is an account of the development of such switches and relay designs suitable for their use. Because of the close dependence of contact performance and switch operating characteristics upon process methods their development has been an important part of this project."
"Until recently, voice frequency repeaters of the two-way type have been applied almost exclusively to electrically long transmission lines. Now, negative impedance repeaters are used in quantity in the exchange telephone plant, and applications to electrically short lines arise more frequently. Because lower over-all transmission losses can be obtained by utilizing the lower phase shift in short lines, a different engineering approach to the application of E-type negative impedance repeaters is desirable. This paper outlines a general method whereby transmission performance and stability can be related to the characteristics of a symmetrical repeater located in the center of a short transmission line. The theory is particularly applicable to negative impedance repeaters. A tandem arrangement of short sections of transmission line, where each section has a centrally located repeater, can be classed as a line loaded with negative impedance."
"A high-speed telephone switching network with electronic controls is described. The high speed allows one-at-a-time operation, reducing both the number and complexity of control circuits. Germanium diodes, transistors, cold-cathode tubes and fast relays perform the control functions; glass-sealed relay contacts provide paths for speech. A laboratory model of the network has performed reliably for over three years."
"Curves are given relating the probability βT of detection of a signal in noise to the signal-to-noise power-ratio S/N, to the proportion α of false detections that can be tolerated, and to the time available (more specifically, to the number m of independent squared samples of the envelope of the filter output that are averaged in making a single attempt at detection). For the curves, three types of sinusoidal signals are assumed, according as the amplitude is constant, varies at random very slowly (fading), or varies as rapidly as the filtered noise itself. The second case is of course very unfavorable for reliable detection, and the third is also if one is limited to one or two sample points. The curves are applied to problems of optimizing radar parameters such as pulse energy, scan rate, averaging time, etc. The Appendix gives the mathematical background for the foregoing and then proceeds to consider additional types of signal (dc and arbitrary Gaussian) and methods of detection (failure to rectify or take the envelope, counting of samples above a threshold, and averaging by continuous integration)."
"The behavior and applications of ferrites in microwave circuits have been studied at the Holmdel Radio Laboratory with particular emphasis on non-reciprocal properties. There are numerous ways of building non-reciprocal devices which accomplish the same function, and the authors propose at the outset that a terminology based on function be adopted. Definitions of the gyrator, circulator and isolator are given. A qualitative method of deducing the properties of new ferrite-loaded circuits, termed “point-field” analysis, has been particularly fruitful, in that it permitted the exploration of a wide variety of ferrite-loaded circuits despite the absence of precise mathematical analyses. Faraday rotation in longitudinally-magnetized ferrite-loaded circuits has been studied; the effects of higher-order modes, the reasons for variation in Faraday rotation as a function of frequency, and the optimum geometry for the ferrite loading are discussed. In transversely-magnetized ferrite-loaded rectangular waveguide it is shown that the single mode medium may be non-reciprocal as to phase constant, attenuation constant, or distribution of field components in the cross-section. The latter effect is called the “field-displacement” effect. In transversely-magnetized ferrite-loaded round waveguide, either reciprocal or non-reciprocal birefringence may be achieved and examples are given. Some non-reciprocal ferrite-loaded dielectric waveguides are discussed. In all of these forms of non-reciprocal transmission media, gyrators, circulators and isolators may be built, and experimental data are reported on some of the possibilities. A brief review of prospective uses for these non-reciprocal elements is given."
"Tables and charts are given of mathematical functions related to the potential of a line of point charges. The use of these functions is illustrated by applications to semiconductor resistivity measurements and to calculations of the base resistance of point-contact transistors."
"Measurements have been made of the electrode potential of p- and n-type germanium in contact with aqueous solutions of KOH, KCl and HCl as a function of anodic and cathodic current and of incident light intensity. For anodic currents, the measured electrode potential can be separated into three parts: the reversible electrode potential corresponding to the anodic reaction, depending only on the solution; an overvoltage of the usual form; and a term (kT/e) ln (p1/p), where p is the equilibrium hole concentration and p1 is the concentration just inside the space-charge region of the germanium. The anodic current is determined by flow of holes to the surface, so that the current saturates for n-type germanium but not for p-type. The saturation current is determined by body and surface generation of holes and by creation of excess holes by light. There is a current gain of 1.4 to 1.8. In addition, there is a small “leakage” current not dependent on hole supply. Similar statements may be made for cathodic current, except that the electrode potential and current are determined respectively by the concentration and supply of electrons instead of holes, the current gain is of the order of unity, and the leakage current is larger. Complicating time changes were observed for cathodic but not for anodic currents. The measurements may be understood in terms of simple thermodynamic considerations, based on the idea that the anodic reaction is with holes, the cathodic reaction with electrons, in the semiconductor; the behavior for very small currents depends on a competition between the anodic and cathodic reactions, which may be treated by simple rate process considerations. A comparison is made with experiments on the germanium-gas interface by Brattain and Bardeen, to which similar considerations may apply."
"The p-terminal generalization of a two-terminal switching function is a matrix of switching functions representing the conditions under which the terminals are interconnected. The properties of these “switching matrices” are studied, and examples are given to show how they may be employed effectively in the design of switching circuits. Some basic problems are outlined and a bibliography is attached."
"A mechanism is presented for the initiation of the short arc. Breakdown in short gaps, occurring at measured fields of 30 × 106 (+ 0 per cent, — 15 per cent) volts/cm for clean palladium and 28 × 106 (+ 0 per cent, — 15 per cent) volts/cm for clean gold, are generally preceded by field emission currents from the cathode sufficient to cause heating and evaporation of the anode. This is followed by ionization of the metal vapor, enhancement of the cathode emission, etc. (1) It is shown that to evaporate the anode by electron bombardment one must satisfy the requirement j_Va/k = (δT)b. By combining this requirement with the field emission equation one may calculate the relation between arc initiation voltage and contact separation from the physical properties of the contact metal. These calculations are in agreement with the measurements. (2) A breakdown is obtained only when a minimum power IV = πak(δT)b is dissipated at the anode by electron bombardment. Measurements with clean palladium contacts have given IV = 1 watt in agreement with the above relation. This concept of minimum power for arc initiation should replace that of minimum current for arc initiation. It is possible at 100 volts to initiate a breakdown between palladium contacts at 0.01 ampere which is 100 times smaller than the minimum current required for maintaining the arc. (3) A breakdown will lead to an established arc only if the circuit can furnish enough current to maintain the arc plasma by sufficient metal evaporation; otherwise, transient unstable breakdowns are obtained. (4) Breakdown time lags have been observed. They correspond approximately to the heating time of the anode by electron bombardment until"
"The theoretical basis of sequential circuit synthesis is developed, with particular reference to the work of D. A. Huffman and E. F. Moore. A new method of synthesis is developed which emphasizes formal procedures rather than the more familiar intuitive ones. Familiarity is assumed with the use of switching algebra in the synthesis of combinational circuits."
"This is a presentation of a study of the mechanisms of the short arc between closely spaced contacts and its erosion effects. The study is based on optical measurements of the erosion obtained on contacts after repeated arcing on closure or opening. Most experiments reported here are essentially of the probing type designed to test specific postulates and assumptions. For short arcs initiated at 250 volts, clean palladium, iron and nickel contacts have shown a reversal, with arc duration, in the direction of net transfer. Net anode losses were obtained with short duration arcs and net cathode losses with longer duration arcs. This reversal, however, did not occur with silver, gold or copper. For longer arcs initiated as air breakdowns from 500 volts, all the above metals indicated a net loss from the cathode. For arcs initiated at 250 volts between fully activated contacts, shallow cathode losses were generally observed with little or no buildups on the anode. The first section of this paper is a summary of the experimental work done and the results obtained. In the second section, the data are analyzed and a tentative working model is proposed for the short arc and its erosion effects."
"A new device, the avalanche transistor, is described. Its properties derive from the utilization of the multiplication inherent in the breakdown process of reverse-biased semiconductor junctions. These junction transistors have regions of designable alpha greater than unity and are similar in many respects to point-contact and hook-collector transistors. They should, however, have advantages in speed and designability. Large regions of negative resistance of moderate magnitude can also be obtained in appropriate circuits. The device should find wide application in both switching and transmission. Design information for avalanche transistors is given."
"The causes of energy dissipation and mechanical instabilities of the elastic constants in metals can usually be traced to the presence of an imperfection in the crystal lattice called a dislocation. Edge dislocations are regions in the lattice where an extra plane of atoms has been added or subtracted from an otherwise perfect crystal. Such dislocations can move through the crystal under the application of shearing stresses or because of thermal agitation. It is shown that the primary causes of energy dissipation in a metal are dislocation loops pinned at irregular intervals by impurity atoms. At very low temperatures these dislocations lie along minimum energy positions but at higher temperatures they can be displaced to the next minimum energy position. In going to the next position, the dislocation meets an energy barrier determined by the energy required to overcome the limiting shearing stress T130 and the energy to stretch the dislocation. This barrier causes a relaxation effect for which the dislocations lag behind the applied stress and abstract energy from the mechanical vibrations. By measuring the position and height of the relaxation peak as a function of frequency and temperature, evidence is obtained for the value of the limiting shearing stress, the number of dislocations per square cm., and the average loop length. The values obtained agree with other methods for measuring these quantities. At higher temperatures thermal agitation causes the loops to break away from their pinning impurity atoms. In the process, it is shown that a loss occurs which is independent of frequency and amplitude but which varies exponentially with the temperature. The activation energy found agrees with the calculated value for the binding energy of an impurity atom. Dislocations also occur at the boundaries between grains in the metal and produce a peak in the measured attenuation of a polycrystal which reaches a maximum at high temperatures and low frequencies. The activation energy for this process is determined by the energy required for a vacancy to diffuse"
"The impetus for the development of magnetic pulse modulators for radar gear stems from the extreme reliability possible for magnetic devices. Descriptions of magnetic modulators developed for this purpose are given. Mathematical treatments of both the ac and dc charged series type magnetic modulators add to the understanding of core resetting in the ac case and reveal new areas of operation in the dc case, such as a possibility of voltage amplification and automatic core resetting. Means are described for obtaining very short pulses and for absorbing unwanted stored energy in parasitics following the output pulse. These means may also be applied to other pulse modulators. Also, a way is suggested for operating the cathode of the thyratron at ground potential in a dc charged magnetic pulse modulator."
"In this paper it is explained how Maxwell's field equations together with the appropriate boundary conditions may be converted into equations analogous to those for coupled transmission lines. This makes it possible to use the well-known techniques of dealing with transmission lines to solve certain field problems in those cases in which either the method of separating the variables fails or the boundary conditions are too complicated for the conventional method. For example, this method may be applied to studying waveguide to horn junctions, bending of waveguides, propagation of waves over an imperfect earth in the vicinity of the source, etc. Other applications are suggested in the course of the paper. On the theoretical side, this conversion of field equations into transmission line equations brings together two heretofore independent theories of wave propagation on wires, namely, Lord Kelvin's theory based on circuit concepts and Kirchhoff's laws and Mie's theory based on field concepts and Maxwell's equations. The “Generalized Telegraphist's Equations” derived in this paper differ from Kelvin's classical Telegraphist's Equations in two respects. Firstly, for a pair of conductors Kelvin obtained one pair of differential equations implying the existence of only one mode of propagation. For the same pair of conductors we obtain an infinite set of equations implying an infinite number of modes, from which Kelvin's equations are obtained by neglecting the"
"The design features of the new A2A television transmission system are described. Under the diverse conditions of circuit length and repeater spacing in short-haul television connecting circuits, considerable flexibility is required. Several examples are given of the use of the A2A system to illustrate this flexibility."
"An improved equalization system has been developed for video cable. Equalizer design is based on an analysis of cable performance, which shows that an analytic expression can be obtained for the loss and phase of the cable over the video band. Fixed equalizers were designed to handle the loss characteristics of a nominal cable pair and manually-adjustable equalizers to handle expected variations. New wideband approximation methods were used to match arbitrary impedance or loss characteristics to close tolerances. With these equalizers an initial cable distortion of a hundred or more db may be reduced to less than 0.05 db."
"J. K. Galt has recently suggested a mechanism for the losses observed in ferromagnetic resonance and domain wall motion in single crystals of nickel ferrite containing small amounts of divalent iron substituted for divalent nickel. Each such substitution provides one electron able to move between the various octahedral sites in the crystal. Galt's suggestion is that the losses arise from a relaxation associated with the motion of these electrons. This paper develops a theory of this mechanism based on a thermodynamic model. Expressions are found for the velocity of domain wall motion, for the line width in ferromagnetic resonance and for the displacement of the field for resonance."
"Alloyed-junction transistors have been critically evaluated with respect to their potential use as high-speed switching devices. Limitations are found to result from avalanche multiplication and space charge layer widening which necessitate design compromises between high frequency and high voltage circuit requirements. It is shown in this article that n-p-n germanium transistors have an advantage over p-n-p type beyond that expected from mobility considerations. The additional advantage derives from differences in avalanche multiplication."
"An experimental high-speed signaling system capable of signaling at the rate of 100 decimal digits per second over a variety of existing Bell System transmission facilities is described. This system uses several frequencies in combinations as its code elements. Because the manner of discriminating between different frequencies is significantly different from present-day practice, the system has been called polytonic to distinguish it from existing multifrequency systems. Signal separation in this system depends not on the steady-state response of filters, but on the transient response of simple reactive networks. Discrimination is enhanced by the use of rather precise timing in the signal generating mechanism and somewhat less precise timing in the receiver. A second system, capable of signaling at the rate of 300 decimal digits per second over a more restricted range of transmission facilities, is also briefly discussed."
"The advent of very broad band microwave amplifiers and oscillators necessitates microwave circuitry of comparable frequency range. A scheme is presented which makes it possible to build microwave couplers of various kinds having bandwidths of well over two octaves. A preliminary investigation of mechanical and mathematical analogs is described; and some particular devices using the new principle are mentioned."
"It has been shown by J. S. Cook that wave power may be transferred from one to another of two coupled waveguides through a variation of their phase constants. It is now clear that this is but one example of a new principle of coupling which is here called “normal mode warping.” Wave power inserted at one end of a coupled waveguide system may be made to appear at the other end with any desired power distribution by gradual warping of the normal mode field patterns along the coupler. In general, variation of both the coupling coefficient and phase constants are required. Much wider bands are theoretically possible than with any other distributed type of coupler. This principle may be applied to dielectric waveguides, birefringent media, and waveguides containing ferrite, to obtain both reciprocal and non-reciprocal couplers."
"Broadband directional couplers in which the phase constants and coupling coefficients vary with distance along two coupled transmission lines as suggested in the two preceding papers are analyzed. A criterion is given for the allowed variations in the line parameters for a given bandwidth. Parameters which describe the performance of such couplers are given. It is found that such couplers give much greater bandwidth than conventional couplers of the distributed coupling type but they must be longer than conventional couplers."
"A method is presented for calculating the rate at which water should be supplied for washing motion-picture film in both cascade and parallel types of immersion systems. Formulas are developed which show the relationship between water flow rate and the maximum concentration that can be expected in each tank of a wash system. Other formulas are offered which provide a measure of the rate at which the ultimate concentrations of contaminant are approached. Actual values of water flow rates, concentration of contamination, and contamination time are calculated for several typical wash systems from the formulas derived here. Conclusions arrived at by this theoretical treatment support the practice of washing film in several small tanks, rather than in a single large one."
"A retrospective review of the problems involved in the conversion of many theaters for the various methods of motion-picture presentation is made. Patron acceptance influences management justification for required modifications for these newer processes. The authors have faced problems of equipping over 200 theaters for the changed presentation processes."
"This paper describes a system for additive printing of positive color release film. The system consists of an additive Scene Tester, a conversion of a Model D Bell & Howell printer, and a control system making the modified printer completely automatic."
"Many of the conventional projection lenses used for small film projectors are of the Petzval or Voigtländer type shown in Fig. 1. As the Petzval radius of these types is of the order of the focal length, they show considerable field curvature when astigmatism is corrected, or astigmatism when mean field flattening is achieved."
"Large-screen color-television has been demonstrated several times and commercial equipment is available. Various problems of colorimetry, optics and electronics have been overcome and the resultant picture is adequate for theater use. The technical features of the equipment are outlined as well as application information. The projector described will produce a picture 15 by 20 ft with good highlight brightness. It operates on the standards recently adopted by the FCC for color-television broadcasting."
"A large motion-picture laboratory, designed for the processing of 16mm film exclusively, was completed by Consolidated Film Industires, Hollywood, in February 1953. The main floor contains all the film-handling rooms arranged to follow a sequence of processing operations. The basement houses all the auxiliary equipment, and the second floor is occupied by projection rooms, cutting rooms and other customer facilities. Several innovations have been included, of which the most noteworthy is a one-to-one 16mm optical track printer, using two Davis drives from the Westrex sound recorder."
"For a given magnetic head, head life is proportional to the film pressure on the head produced by the film tension, kinetic friction coefficient of the film and the angle subtended by the film on the head (film-wrap angle). For a given film and film-wrap angle, magnetic head life is proportional to the film pressure on the head produced by the film tension, the square root of the core radius, the 3/2 power of the pole face depth, the core width, and in some undetermined manner to the core hardness. More briefly, one may say that (for a constant film and film-wrap angle) head life is proportional to the film pressure, volume of removable core material, and core hardness."
"The atereophonic principles which have served as the basis for the design of the Perspecta System are set forth, followed by a brief description of the system and its advantages and limitations. The history of the development is given and recent additional features are described."
"An aspheric lens is described which is designed to be added to the elliptical mirror-type projection optical system commonly used with carbon-arc light sources. The aspheric lens is designed to reduce the effects of the inherent foreshortening of those crater images formed by the outer zones of an elliptical mirror of large collection angle. Measurements using a sample aspheric lens with an f/2.25 mirror showed an increased uniformity of both screen color and brightness distribution at the expense of a reduction in light on the screen. The addition of the lens substantially reduced the variations in screen color that accompany changes in crater position. The aspheric lens can be combined with a faster mirror to give the same screen light as with a slower mirror alone, but with an improved color and brightness distribution."
"This is a semitechnical review of the problems confronting a television news editor who has had little or no experience with motion-picture film, and how he has learned to use the motion-picture art to develop a new type of journalism. The principal differences between old-style theater newsreel reporting and modern-day television news reporting are outlined. Some of the devices used in attempting to overcome the shortcomings of orthodox pan films, single-system soundtracks, developing and light problems, etc., are pointed up. Needs and improvements in film techniques and associated equipment to keep up with the fast pace of the television art are recommended."
"RCA's television projectors used with vidicon film cameras are equipped with a light-intensity control unit developed for this purpose. The unit is used to control the video output level of the camera by varying the intensity of the projector light source to compensate for varying film density. The angular position of a continuously variable neutral-density filter wedge placed in the condenserlens system of a projector is remotely controlled by a servomechanism. Thus the signal-to-noise ratio of the system is maintained at its optimum value since the camera is operating with essentially constant input level."
"A procedure for the estimation of sodium carbonate in photographic developers to within ± is given. The carbonate is precipitated as barium carbonate and titrated with a standard acid solution."
"A revised standard covering American standard practice for volume measurements of electrical speech and program waves was recently issued and is published at the end of this introductory article. This paper describes briefly the needs leading to the new standard and points out the major differences between the new and the preceding standard."
"A side optical system was added to a 16mm Fastax camera to enable correlation of data with the event photographs or to allow the camera to be used for streak recording. The side optical system was installed without permanent camera alterations through a separate camera door. The image is reflected up to the film plane five frames ahead of the event frame."
"The increasing use of the vidicon camera as the pickup means in a television film chain has opened the field for a new 16mm magnetic and optical television projector designed for dependable high-quality picture and sound reproduction. This paper describes a projector suitable for film telecasting, using the vidicon camera."
"A fourth mechanism by Thomas Armat for intermittently moving film through a motion-picture projector has recently been discovered in his old workshop. The movement was designed for a 17.5mm projector intended for home use."
"A Major Change in motion-picture studio lighting has taken place in the last two years. The introduction of color film balanced for incandescent light showed promise of reducing light levels on motion-picture sets. The 400 ft-c used for the daylight film was reduced to about 200 ft-c for the incandescent light color film."
"For the abstract of this paper which was presented on May 5, 1954, at the Society's Convention at Washington, D.C., see the first installment published in the June Journal. The second installment appeared in the July Journal. See p. 437 for errata in second installment."
"The design of underwater automatic and controlled cameras is discussed. A camera of linear design uses a 4-in. (ID) cylinder and a standard 100-ft roll of 35mm film, exposing 800 frames of double 35mm size. Electronic flash is used for illumination, either synchronized with a shutter when external light is present, or without a shutter in darkness. Simplified calculations are given in chart form for cylinders and end plates with external pressure. A few experimental points are given."
"Recent advances in the field of “reliability engineering” include specialized work in four areas: equipment reliability, component reliability, design and use aspects and reliability program administration. The present status of equipment and part reliability is reviewed, and facts are given on measurement methods and their results. Reliability calculation and prediction are touched on."
"Rapid increase in the use of 16mm magnetic-optical projectors, the advent of color television and its requirement for magnetic sound, and other commercial considerations led to the development of this striping unit. Its basic design features are listed briefly and its operation is described. The paper also contains information on the handling of the coating mixture used."
"A new machine for the application of a magnetic stripe to 16mm and 8mm motion-picture film by a lamination process is discussed. The machine incorporates several new developments such as improved slitting, adjustable track position, a pre-size coater and a humidity cabinet with elevator. These improvements have made dependable striping on both the base and emulsion surface of the films possible and permit removal of the cellophane carrier in one operation."
"The problems of processing color release positive film to give a dye image and a silver soundtrack are discussed. The viscous image bleach method is described in some detail. The direct silver plus dye track produced by the viscous bleach method is compared with the track produced by the conventional redeveloped silver method."
"How and why The Association of Cinema Laboratories was formed, its proposed function and its relation to SMPTE are described. The work of committees already established to study business methods, standardization, nomenclature, etc., is reviewed. Committee activity has been guided by certain rules: (1) to determine what existing standards might be put to work by the individual member laboratories and (2) to consider what additional and/or expanded fields of activity would be better served by encouraging the establishment of further standards now nonexistent."
"In order to provide data on drive-in theater operation, the Screen Brightness Committee has sponsored a preliminary field survey. Measurements were made in 26 theaters among the eastern and central states, with screen widths about equally divided between the 40–60-ft and 60–120-ft range. Average screen brightness was 3.0 ft-L; no theater reached the indoor standard of 9–14 ft-L. Performance characteristics are summarized."
"For the abstract of this paper which was presented on May 5, 1954, at the Society's Convention at Washington, D.C., see the first installment published in last month's Journal."
"The theory of image formation and analysis is formulated in Section A as an “aperture theory” applied to optical and electrical image-forming systems. It is shown that the properties and combination of “apertures” (point-images) can be described in the space domain by transmittance functions and in the frequency domain by their Fourier spectra (sine-wave response). The mathematical formulation demonstrates that the basic operation of image formation and analysis is a successive integration of the products of two functions, letting one function “scan” the other function, mathematically termed “convolution.” The equivalent passband N6 of an aperture or system emerges again as a significant and convenient parameter for specifying their characteristics by a single number."
"Discussed are problems and procedures encountered in establishing low-power telecasting by the Armed Forces for the information and education of service personnel in isolated areas of the United States and in overseas areas where English language television is not available. Described are the development of Armed Forces Television, its “package” equipment, programming, personnel and costs of installation."
"A new 16mm processing machine accomplishing a 48-sec reversal processing cycle is described. This machine was designed and engineered for the Delaware Steeplechase and Race Assn. by the EDL Co. of Gary, Ind. To the best of the author's knowledge, it is the first spray-type processor designed particularly for high-temperature reversal processing. This paper also relates the history of high-speed reversal processing as done by the Delaware Steeplechase and Race Assn.; gives the reasons why thoroughbred racing requires film records to be processed rapidly, and traces the progress from 1945 to the present."
"This paper describes, in detail, an installation and a procedure by means of which a motion picture, on infrared sensitive film, may be made of an audience as they watch another film being projected on the screen. Specifications are given for light sources, exposure and development."
"This is a report on the proceedings of the International Commission on Illumination (CIE) which met in Zürich, Switzerland, from June 13 to June 22. The status of the revision of the standard data for colorimetry is explained and discussed. The present FCC standards for color television are specified in terms of colorimetric data adopted by the CIE in 1931. Most quantitative work on color, during the past 24 years, has been based on the CIE data. The significance of the proposed revisions in relation to that work and to future work and specifications is discussed."
"As Chairman of ASA Committee PH22 it has been my privilege to head the U.S. delegations to two meetings of the Technical Committee 36, Cinematography, of the International Standards Organization. The first of these was held at New York in 1952 and the second at Stockholm, Sweden, this past June."
"WTMJ-TV's pioneer color installation and the operational problems faced by its engineers during 1954 and early 1955 are discussed. The results and experience gained by integrating color film slides and live color camera equipment with the monochrome system are given. The scope of the discussion includes some of the technical difficulties and handling of the color signals from the camera to studio control room through the master and TV transmitter. Color test procedures, lighting, air-conditioning and manpower requirements are explained."
"In the fall of 1954, CBS Television inaugurated color television program service from a new modern theater studio in New York City. This studio, known as CBS Television Studio 72, is one of the best equipped television studios in service today, being provided with facilities to originate television programs not only in color but in monochrome as well. It is the purpose of this paper to describe the technical facilities installed in this studio."
"A review is made of psychoacoustic and audience-opinion information of recent and older sources from which criteria for studio design are drawn. New criteria are proposed for reverberation time for studios and auditoriums used for speech, music and general purposes. Examples of three types of existing studios that need revision are discussed. Their physical properties and acoustic data are presented and the manner in which they do not meet the criteria is discussed. Various alternatives for adapting these studios to meet the criteria are presented. Emphasis is placed on achieving the desired results with a minimum outlay of money."
"The term “process photography” is used generally to encompass such arts as optical printing, glass and matte shot work, title insert work and color separation printing. This paper will discuss one phase of the problems of process photography, namely that of registration. To define this term more precisely, registration is the positioning of the film in the aperture of the specified intermittent prior to exposure. In this paper the discussion will be limited to registration in terms of intermittent mechanisms."
"Color densitometers are used in photographic laboratories for film processing control, printer control, print film evaluation, and negative or intermediate film evaluation. Performance characteristics of interest for a color densitometer include total and operational density range, measuring geometry, linearity, drift, noise, precision and accuracy. — The density range must be sufficient to assure satisfactory operation with specified filters. Measuring geometry and linearity are of importance to problems other than process control. Good precision implies freedom from noise and drift. Precision is of particular importance in process or printer control. Accuracy is of importance in making intercomparisons with other instruments and for film evaluation purposes. — Satisfactory routine operation of a densitometer is best obtained by means of routine operating checks, maintenance checks, and performance checks. Performance checks may be made using plaques of film or other suitable materials. The plaques may be calibrated to provide precision or accuracy performance checks. Daily checks should be plotted on control charts and may be summarized on long-range trend charts. The controls may also be combined into a single “go no-go” gauge."
"For the designer of projection equipment to make an intelligent choice from among the many available projection lamps, some performance data not ordinarily supplied by the manufacturer may be of value. Apparatus and a method have been devised by which the performance of lamps can be measured and evaluated in terms of their potential efficiency when used in a projector."
"This paper describes a test program which was conducted at the Allison Div. of General Motors Corp. in order to evaluate the performance of various incandescent lamps when operated at high voltages for high-speed photographic purposes. Lamp life, efficiency, color balance exposure and the design of an applicable power supply are also presented."
"Projector illumination is produced by one of two basic types of optical systems, the first being the True, or Classical, Condenser System, and the second, a Source-Imaging System. Theater motion-picture illumination is not produced by classical condensers, but rather by source-imaging systems, which have specific characteristics limiting the light on the screen edge. Some of these characteristics are often produced by using short-focus lenses with a mirror designed for long-focus lenses. This produces difficulties which are not completely overcome by faster lenses. Tube sizes and spaces in projectors, meant for long-focus lenses, also frequently produce uneven illumination."
"This paper describes the modification of a 16mm television projector — now in service with the iconoscope tube on a full-storage basis — for use with the vidicon camera tube on a partial-storage basis. This makes available, for the reproduction of film in a television system, the advantages of the vidicon tube for black-and-white film and makes it possible to project color film into a three-vidicon chain when it becomes available. The requirements associated with flicker are detailed, and the sequence of events that is necessary for partial storage is compared with that required for full storage. It is shown that a 2–3 system separates the pulldown by the required integral number of television fields and yet maintains the usual 2½ to 1 ratio between television fields and motion-picture frames. Further account is taken of the phasing necessary between the pulldown motor and the shutter motor, and the changes required in the design of the shutter. Under the heading of mechanical details, there is a description of the accelerator that provides the 2–3 sequence, and a discussion of the features provided to ameliorate the conditions introduced by more complicated accelerations and greater noise. In conclusion, the paper cites the results of a durability test and reviews the features of the installation and maintenance of the 2–3 system."
"Motion-picture production on major studio lots has access to extensive fabricating facilities and know-how for the creation of sets, props and special effects. An attempt is made to aid those engaged in the production of commercial and educational motion pictures with their respective problems by supplying information regarding materials and processes selected to suit lower budgets, smaller facilities and lesser technical skills."
"Production techniques used in filming 39 half-hour television shows by a commercial film company are described. An educational type of program (originally televised “live,” but not kinescoped) required a format unlike the entertainment television film. Studio-set design, preproduction conferences, lighting, camera procedures, props and special effects peculiar to these films are outlined in this paper."
"In the photographic phase of certain types of motion-picture film production, multiple-camera operation is of great economic value. This paper describes a simplified system by which four or more standard blimped cameras may, by push-button control, be started and stopped at will during sound takes with automatic head and tail sync marks. Short-cut editing procedures using the film from such multiple-camera operation are also described."
"The small, independent, motion-picture producer using production ingenuity has placed industrial films within the range of small industry. This is the story of one of these producers in a city of 32,000."
"The problems encountered and the solutions in the filming of 16mm CinemaScope films for industrial and educational use are described. Methods of exhibition are also discussed."
"Because of the need of an extensive stock film library, Moody Institute of Science has developed a very effective classification and cataloging system. Modeled after the Dewey Decimal System used by public libraries, this system enables a cataloger to group similar material and make it readily available to film editors with a minimum of effort."
"Between the production of a motion picture and its showing lies the essential step of distribution or circulation by which the potential user learns of its availability and acquires it for his use. This paper briefly reviews the history and growth of the field of film distribution; analyzes the various channels and procedures used today by film distribution agencies; and surveys representative distributors, libraries and user groups, correlating the business and fiscal policies under which subjects are acquired and circulated."
"The use of are lamps with 16mm projection equipment can extend the screen size, permit projection in rooms that cannot be entirely darkened, and allow greater picture detail to be observed due to the higher screen brightness. The various are lamps and their associated power supplies are briefly described."
"Safety motion-picture film on cellulose acetate base has been found chemically damaged on occasion by storage in the same can with unstable nitrate film. As a result, the effects on acetate film of the three nitrogen oxide gases produced by the decomposition of nitrate film have been investigated. Nitrous oxide and nitric oxide were found to be harmless, but nitrogen dioxide, even at low concentrations, is seriously damaging to safety film. This is to be expected, since nitrogen dioxide reacts with moisture to form nitrous and nitric acids. The order in which the film components are attacked by nitrogen dioxide is: the silver or dye image first, the gelatin of the emulsion second, and the acetate base last. The rate of attack increases with increase in relative humidity. It is concluded that safety films should never be stored in the same can with nitrate films and preferably not in the same room."
"In the year 1887, Thomas Alva Edison conceived the idea of devising an instrument by means of which, used in combination with his phonograph, “all motion and sound would be recorded and reproduced simultaneously.” Historical objects, documents, photographs and prints from early movies have recently been discovered in the archives of the Thomas Alva Edison Foundation and Museum in West Orange, N.J. This paper will reveal for the first time some aspects of the development of motion pictures from an idea in Edison's mind to his contributions to the technological and artistic aspects of the infant industry."
"A review is given of the status of motion-picture films for amateur use prior to 1923. Up to that date, lack of standardization of film size, the use of the negative-positive method, and cost of apparatus and printing held back extensive use of film for amateur motion pictures. Research in the manufacture of safety acetate film support was started by Eastman Kodak Co. in 1906–1907, and limited quantities of film were manufactured and sold between 1912 and 1923. Film on safety acetate base, a fundamental requirement for home movies, was introduced in 1912 for a portable projector made by Thomas A. Edison, Inc., and also for equipment made by Pathé Frères, a French firm. A safety film 9.5mm wide, introduced by Pathé Cinéma in 1923, was developed either to a negative, or directly to a positive by the conventional reversal method. — Research on film for amateur motion pictures was started in 1914 by Eastman Kodak Co. and led to the introduction of the Ciné-Kodak process on January 8, 1923. A safety film 16mm wide was used which was developed directly to a positive by an improved reversal process using controlled second exposure. The factors are analyzed that made this process successful and encouraged the standardization of 16mm film throughout the world. Included is a short account of the processing of 16mm films, of improvements in 16mm film emulsions, the printing of duplicates, the use of sound on 16mm film, the history of 8mm reversal film, and the introduction of amateur motion pictures in color."
"The results of subjective rankings of various speech and music selections containing various amounts and types of flutter are presented. These rankings are compared to the type of flutter and the results of flutter measurements using peak and rms indications and various flutter-rate weighting networks. The comparisons show that a meter using an rms indicating device and a flutter-rate weighting network will provide flutter measurements which are directly related to the obnoxious quality that the flutter imparts to music and speech."
"Because of the increased need for the control of motion-picture printers used for printing color films, a simple barrier-cell type of light meter was designed for use on release printers. The meter has very good stability and linearity of response. Its sensitivity is very adequate for the intensity levels encountered in release printers. The probe unit contains a filter magazine that permits rapid reading through red, green and blue filters. It was designed to give photocell response which closely approximates the responses of the three sensitive layers of Eastman Color Print Film, Type 5382."
"Two of the First International Symposium papers were inexplicably omitted from High-Speed Photography Vol. 5."
"A new process, particularly applicable to the color-television field, is described. This equipment makes possible photography in full additive color on ordinary black-and-white film when fitted to the typical studio motion-picture camera. Its relationship to the needs of the color-television industry is considered. Characteristics concerning economy of operation, set-lighting requirements and angle of view are discussed. Related projection and printing equipments and techniques are described."
"The first public demonstration of combat television was presented at Fort George G. Meade, August 11, 1954. The Signal Corps Interim Tactical Television System was integrated as an operating part of the communications system of a Regimental Combat Team in a simulated combat maneuver. Further system integration was required when this demonstration was presented in color by NBC over their national network."
"A lens bench has been developed incorporating a nodal slide and a flat-field indicator which permits the rapid determination of the square-wave flux response of a lens both on and off axis. A synchronously driven test object is used, and a plot of response vs-line number is presented on an oscilloscope. Lenses up to 24 in. in focal length and $3_{8}^{7}$ in. in diameter may be tested."
"This paper describes an electronic system for comparing magnetic sound prints with the master track during the printing operation. In the release printing of CinemaScope pictures the comparator is a useful tool for the automatic inspection of the product. It has been in service at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Laboratory since December 1953 and has proved to be of great value in making CinemaScope prints."
"The technical capabilities and limitations of color television and color photography are compared in five categories: (1) the viewing situation, (2) image photometry, (3) image colorimetry, (4) image structure and (5) image continuity. The results of a detailed survey of the practices of motion-picture theaters and the 8mm and 16mm motion-picture systems are compared with the current performance obtained by 21-in, color-television receivers. Tables comparing these systems are presented. The avenues open to television and photographic engineers to improve the respective systems are pointed out."
"This paper describes a 2-channel photographic stereophonic system, variable-density and variable-area, the two soundtracks occupying the same position as the normal single track on release film. Methods of recording using either a straight 2-microphone or an alternate system with a bridged center microphone are described. Methods of reproducing over a 2-loudspeaker or over a 3-loudspeaker system with the center bridged to the outer two are described. Tracks recorded in this manner may be played over standard theater systems equipped for single soundtrack only. Standard single tracks may be played over this system by means of a simple operating change in the booth."
"This note describes a way to implement the spatial recognition of sounds in a stereophonic sound-reproducing system by using a large sound projector to supply the required acoustic level, and lower power loudspeakers to produce the spatial effect."
"The use of motion-picture cameras for recording the flight of guided missiles is described, including the equipment and techniques involved and the accuracy limitations of the measurements obtained."
"The Bell & Howell Model ‘J’ printer has been adapted to permit the printing of single-system picture and soundtrack simultaneously, at the same aperture, from the regular single light source, yet allowing conventional light changes without causing variations in soundtrack exposure."
"A simplified noise-suppressor for the effects track in CinemaScope reproduction operates in the speaker line, thus using the full gain of the system, and uses two tuned circuits: one accepts and rectifies the 12-kc control tone to operate a speaker relay, and the other rejects the 12-kc tone from the wanted program material in effects speakers. The unit uses no tubes or power supply."
"The following discussion was not transcribed and circulated in time to permit its publication with the article which appeared earlier in this Volume of the Journal, in March, pp. 117–122."
"A 16mm continuous projector designed especially for color television is described. It has an f/1.6 optical system and an optical compensator consisting of two semicircular rotating and tilting mirrors. They are located in parallel light between an objective focused on the film and a collimating lens focused on a flying-spot scanner."
"This paper outlines some of the problems encountered in obtaining satisfactory image steadiness in a continuous projector for television. The projector, which was described in a previous paper*, is of the type that uses rotating and tilting mirrors. Special attention is given here to the mechanical and optical refinements necessary for good performance, and to methods of analyzing and evaluating the results."
"A flying-spot scanner for use with a continuous-motion projector is described. Some of the problems that are encountered from the origination of the spot of light till the NTSC color output signal is obtained are discussed."
"One of the first problems which faced this committee was that of a common language which could be understood and accepted by all participants in television nomenclature. After considerable discussion, an initial listing of ten items was compiled and circulated to over four hundred interested parties. The resulting replies from approximately 20% of those approached, indicated overwhelming approval (90%) with some minor changes which were later included. The final versions of the lighting definitions have since been listed in the February 1955 Journal. This effort is a beginning and encouraging enough to warrant the continuance of this phase of the lighting committee's activity. Suggestions for additional terminology are not only welcome but are actively solicited."
"Excellent accounts of the history of the development of sound motion pictures have been published in this Journal by Theisen5 in 1941 and by Sponable5 in 1947. The present paper restates some of the information given in those papers, supplementing it with some hitherto unpublished material, and discusses some of the important advances after 1930. — One of the numerous omissions of topics which undeniably deserve discussion at length, is that, except for some early work, no attempt is made to cover developments abroad. The subject of 16mm developments is discussed with a brevity altogether out-of-keeping with its importance. This has been on the theory that basically the problems are similar to those of 35mm sound, and that whatever has brought improvement to one has been applied to both. — Edison invented the motion pictures as a supplement to his phonograph, in the belief that sound plus a moving picture would provide better entertainment than sound alone. But in a short time the movies proved to be good enough entertainment without sound. It has been said that although the motion picture and the phonograph were intended to be partners, they grew up separately. And it might be added that the motion picture held the phonograph in such low esteem that for years it would not speak. Throughout the long history of efforts to add sound, the success of the silent movie was the great obstacle to commercialization of talking pictures."
"This paper describes four types of special photographic effects used in motion-picture production: (a) the matte shot combines live action and a painting into one scene; (b) the composite matte shot employs the matte shot plus the combination of two or more action scenes; (c) the glass shot is a method of photographing the live action and the painting simultaneously; (d) the traveling matte shot combines foreground action, which has been photographed against a monochromatic backing, with any desired background."
"Shrinkage characteristics of both 35mm and 16mm films manufactured by Eastman Kodak Co. have been evaluated by laboratory measurements and by examination of film in commercial use. Professional 35mm triacetate films (both positive and earlier negative stock) show a low rate of shrinkage with age, reaching a range of about 0.3% in the lengthwise direction in three years and a maximum amount of not more than 0.6% in the lengthwise direction and 0.7% in the widthwise direction on the average over very long periods of time. — An improved support for negative films is now being produced which provides a maximum aging shrinkage of not more than 0.3%. This base is being used for both 35mm and 16mm negative stock for black-and-white and color film. 16mm black-and-white positive films show essentially the same shrinkage characteristics as 35mm positive products. Kodachrome 16mm acetate propionate films of current manufacture have low shrinkage characteristics, reaching maximum values of approximately 0.3% in the lengthwise direction and 0.4% in the widthwise direction over long periods of time."
"The widespread use of negative and positive color films now available to the motion-picture industry has introduced new, more complicated and exacting control requirements in the film-processing laboratories. In step with this trend, two new densitometers have been developed. One instrument is intended to provide precise control of the new color picture processes while the other provides diffuse density measurements of black-and-white, silver sulfide, and silver-image-with-dye sound tracks. The instruments, their application and performance are described."
"This paper describes the development of the three basic television recording processes since 1927. It also describes the film-recording processes used in both the United States and Great Britain. The introduction of television recordings made on magnetic material in both monochrome and color is noted. The paper concludes with a short résume on the new art of electronic motion pictures produced with television cameras and recording facilities."
"In this paper a given theory of the perception of visual stimuli is used as a basis for investigating the principles of stereoscopic cinematography. Part I states the vision theory selected and expresses this theory mathematically in a manner applicable to the 3-D spectator. Part II uses this vision theory to develop formulas for filming the scene. Part III applies these formulas to the mechanics of filming. In Part IV accuracy considerations are investigated for the entire transmission chain from scene to screen."
"CinemaScope (or any of the other wide-screen, multiple-channel sound, new techniques) presents three important problems to the drive-in theater. The first is a very wide screen. The second is a suitable light source which can provide enough light to acceptably illuminate the wide screen. The third is the possible use of multiple-channel sound. These problems and their practical solution in currently operating drive-in theaters are briefly discussed."
"The Television Studio Lighting Committee was formed in January 1950. Almost immediately, work was initiated on the preparation of a lighting terminology."
"Color lighting in TV studios is discussed as a means of producing accurate color rendition in the TV picture. The spectral distribution of light in relation to vision, color perception and picture color rendition is considered. The unsuitability of degrees Kelvin as a guide to spectral quality is proposed. The importance of simultaneous contrast in relation to color perception is emphasized, and the use of contrast in connection with background and surround lighting is discussed. Methods of producing and blending colored light are reviewed and suggestions made concerning filters and color-mixing systems."
"A 16mm Super High-Intensity Color-Modified Studio Carbon, designed for use with 3200–3400 K color film, has been developed for set lighting and process projection in motion-picture studios. No filters are needed when a set is illuminated entirely by the color-modified carbon, as proper balance can be obtained during film processing. Only a light filter is required to absorb a small amount of blue and an excess of near ultraviolet radiation to permit the use of mixed incandescent and arc light on motion-picture sets. No filtering is needed for process projection when a relay-condenser-type optical system is employed. — The color-modified carbon in the Brute lamp produces 60% more usable light than the unmodified carbon in the same lamp for use with 3200–3400 K color film, and twice as much usable light as any other motion-picture studio light source."
"The known ways of compensating in the vertical direction for a scanning aperture are reviewed. A new method is presented. This consists of wobbling the scanning aperture in and out of focus at a rapid rate, yielding high- and low-resolution signals. The low-resolution signal is subtracted from the high-resolution signal, yielding an aperture-compensated, or edge-enhanced, picture independent of the scanning direction. A similar method using vertical deflection wobble rather than focus wobble results in vertical aperture compensation alone. Pictures are shown to illustrate the subjective improvements obtainable using vertical aperture compensation."
"The need for a new light source of greater stability, higher brightness and better uniformity is mentioned. The development program which resulted in such a lamp (which has blackbody radiation) is then discussed. Actual performance in a 35mm printer and a 16mm projector is presented with mention of other possible applications."
"Properties of “Cronar” polyester photographic film base are outlined. The utility and importance of these characteristics in the use of photographic films, especially cine films, are discussed. Optical clarity, high wear and tear resistance, low moisture sensitivity and relatively high stiffness modulus combine to make this base an excellent one for general use and one which is particularly useful in certain demanding applications."
"Anscochrome is a new 16mm reversal motion-picture film with an exposure index of 32. The film can be processed by the regular Ansco color process in the field or in the laboratories of the manufacturer. Higher speeds can be secured for scientific and industrial applications at a sacrifice of fineness of grain and color balance by modifying the process. The processing procedure is described."
"A 35mm motion-picture projector for use with the three-vidicon film camera for color television is described. The projector employs a modified Geneva intermittent that permits long application of light and nonlocked synchronous operation. The light source is an incandescent lamp. Compensation for variation in film density, without affecting color balance, is provided. The unique accommodation of 24-frames/sec film rate to the 30-frame television system makes the projector adaptable for all storage and semi-storage film pickup systems."
"The Material Laboratory is in the process of developing a method for measuring the magnetic strength existing on 16mm magnetic soundtrack by using a nonmagnetic loop for the determination of the absolute surface induction at 400 cycles/sec for “pegging” the relative surface induction vs. frequency characteristic obtained by the “short gap” or other approved method. This paper shows that this method was found to be practical for determining the surface induction recorded on presently available commercial ${1\\over4}$-in. magnetic tapes, independent of the tape characteristics and the depth of penetration of the recorded signal."
"The splicing of motion-picture film with pressure sensitive tape is described. A tape made from thin “Mylar” polyester film has been found to yield strong, durable splices without the need of scraping or cementing. This method is applicable to all types of film base, and may have utility in theaters or as a replacement for clip, staple or stitch splices in laboratories."
"The critical requirements of NTSC color signal transmission make it necessary to analyze the characteristics of the coaxial cable used for this purpose within a television studio. This paper describes (a) the development of multi-element terminations to match the variation of cable impedance with frequency, (b) the design of networks to compensate for amplifier input capacitance, and (c) the provision of precise amplitude equalizers to compensate for cable attenuation."
"The evolution of the motion-picture processing laboratory is traced from the early days of reel-and-trough processing by Pathé and Gaumont up to the present day of highly efficient and complicated machine handling. During this half-century, many changes have been introduced in order to render the necessary services, to guarantee a uniformly high quality, and to meet economic requirements. In the early operations, processing was controlled largely by visual judgment. When photographic sound recording was introduced, sensitometric and other instrumental controls were adopted and a general refinement of laboratory methods soon followed. The complications of color photography required new techniques and new tools, especially as regards printing machinery. Laboratory work in the service of television is one in which the element of time is emphasized greatly. — During the latter half of the period, a system of motion-picture photography for the amateur involving the making of direct positives by reversal has resulted in the growth of a system of custom processing laboratories. At the same time the ramification of services to professional motion-picture production has been met by the development of new techniques and new functions while a high standard of quality and service has been maintained."
"A single-pulse, simple timing system, to be used in motion-picture cameras in the range of 200 to 2000 frames/sec, is discussed. One msec resolution is obtained with a single neon glow lamp."
"A set of definitions of basic waveguide terms prepared by the Technical Committee on Antennas and Waveguides was published as IRE Standards in December, 1953 (53 IRE 2. Si). The present Standards on Waveguide Components, Definitions of Terms, represent an extension of the work of this committee from 1953 to 1955. Waveguide component terms have not previously been standardized by the IRE; however, with continuing development in this field the need for such definitions has become increasingly apparent. The present list comprises only the more general, basic and established terms. For example, Waveguide Transformer is defined but the many specific types of waveguide transformer such as Double Stub Transformer, Quarter-Wave Sleeve Transformer, Probe Transformer, Eccentric Line Transformer, and others are not defined. As used in the following definitions, Waveguide is a generic term which includes transmission line and uniconductor wave guides as special cases. For specific definitions see 53 IRE 2. 51."
"The purpose of these specifications is to give a common basis for comparison among signal sources used for test purposes. It is recommended that all manufacturers supply the information outlined where applicable. It is recognized that further information may be supplied for some special instruments in addition to the items outlined."
"Presents the title page of the proceedings record."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"The nineteenth volume of the “Digest of the Literature on Dielectrics” covers items from scientific periodicals, books, and theses which were published during the calendar year 1955. In a few cases mention is made of papers given at scientific meetings, but no effort has been made to insure a broad coverage of such events."
"In many respects, the trend taken by dielectric research in the year 1955 is similar to that of previous years -- steady progress has been made in many areas on problems of long standing. That many of the unsolved problems are so venerable does not mean that the field is becoming stagnant. The fact is that through the introduction of new techniques and ideas, often borrowed from other fields, a number of theoretical and applied problems are nearing solution. Moreover, new problems always arise to replace the old, thus providing an increasingly powerful impetus for further research."
"An important international symposium on Precision Electrical Measurements was held at the National Physical Laboratory in November 1954. Papers were presented on the following subjects: 1. Capacitance and Dielectrics 2. Inductance and Magnetics 3. Electrotechnics 4. High-Voltage Measurements 5. High-Voltage Impulse-Testing Techniques"
"The following tables of dielectric constants and dipole moments contain values reported in Chemical Abstracts during the year 1955. Also included are those values reported in 1954 but inadvertently omitted from previously published tables."
"Two years ago, Powles, in this chapter suggested that there were too many theories, rather than too few experiments. This statement is, unfortunately, even more justified now, and a really comprehensive review of the whole field of dielectric theory in the light of experimental results is long overdue. This would be a herculean task, and most authorities who have the ability to carry out such a valuable project have their programs too crowded already. C. P. Smyth, in his new book, “Dielectric Behaviour and Structure” which is reviewed later in this chapter has made several such comparisons, but they are by no means exhaustive. After consideration of the Debye, Onsager and Kirkwood equations, he presents a further five pages of “Other Equations” with an average of more than two theories a page: then there are a further twelve pages relating to “Solvent Effects”, some of which are inseparable from the general theory. At the end of the first chapter there is an excellent summary, which is all too short, of the conditions under which the better-known equations may be applied. The young chemist or physicist would find it a hard task to fight his way through this introductory chapter and the molecular engineer, for whom the book is also intended would probably wish that he had taken a more classical course. And yet, Smyth1s first chapter is undoubtedly one of the best brief text book presentations so far; the fault, if there be one, lies with the subject, not with the author. Only the rheologists have a wider range of phenomena to account for!"
"For consistency with the title, the coverage of this chapter is limited to those materials which are regarded as insulators. The. decision as to where to draw the line between insulators and semiconductors is necessarily quite arbitrary and, in the present case, has been made so as to include ZnS and CdS but to exclude CdSe and PbS and other materials with a smaller energy band gap. The decision to include ZnS and CdS is very important in view of the large amount of work that has been done with these materials."
"Saxe and Meek (1) have studied the initiation mechanism of long sparks in positive point to plane gaps. They investigated the optical and electrical characteristics of the corona discharges and leader strokes preceding the impulse breakdown in air at atmospheric pressure. Results show that initially a corona discharge forms around the point; the corona gives rise to a 0.4 micro-second pulse of light in the gap, accompanied by a similar pulse of current. The next stage in the growth of the spark is the development of a leader stroke from the corona. The characteristics of the corona and leader stroke in air at reduced pressure and in oxygen, nitrogen, and hydrogen are also briefly described."
"Two outstanding contributions to the knowledge of ferroelectric materials were made in 1955. A new group of ferroelectric crystals was discovered at Bell Laboratories (187,188), typified by the crystal GASH--guanidine aluminum sulfate hexahydrate. They are characterized by ferroelectricity, but it is at present believed that they show only negligible piezoelectricity. In addition, a firm experimental foundation for the development of a theory of ferroelectricity in perovskites has now been laid by the elucidation of the ferroelectric structures of BaTi03 and PbTiO3 (50,135)."
"In this chapter, we will restrict our attention to the ferrites and a few other closely related materials. The great interest in ferrites stems from their unique combination of a spontaneous magnetization and a high electrical resistivity. The observed magnetization results from the difference in the magnetizations of two non-equivalent sub-lattices of the magnetic ions in the crystal structure. Materials of this type should strictly be designated as “ferrimagnetic” and in some respects are more closely related to anti-ferromagnetic substances than they are to ferromagnetics in which the magnetization results from the parallel alignment of all the magnetic moments present. We shall not adhere to this special nomenclature except to emphasize effects, which are due to the existence of the sub-lattices."
"This section is a review of rubber and plastic research and developments in the electrical insulation field as described by 1955 literature. Information is included on research and development trends, materials and their application, processes, and instrumentation. In some instances, pertinent 1955 information is included that was not available at the writing of the 1954 Digest."
"As in previous years this chapter presents a digest of the literature on unsupported films as well as on the products of organic and inorganic fibers in the form of sheet and yarn."
"With the exception of the last four references on use of synthetic insulating liquids, this digest is concerned with mineral insulating oils. The mineral oil references are divided into two main groups: transformer oils, and cable impregnating oils."
"A patent was granted to Comeforo (1) for a machinable ceramic and process of manufacture. The base material is synthetic fluro-mica which bonded with 2–15% orthophosphoric acid or one of its salts, pressed and fired to 900°–1300°C. This material is a substitute for block-talc."
"The service record of electric equipment depends largely upon the performance of its insulation. Insulation failures result from various combinations of such causes as progressive aging, moisture, mechanical damage, excess temperature, chemical action and abnormal voltage stresses. Commercial tests involving all these factors are impractical. It has long been the practice, however, to test new insulation at a voltage appreciably greater than its rated operating voltage. The dielectric test voltages should be chosen to result in good operating performance and satisfactory life. The establishment of suitable dielectric test specifications involves consideration of the over voltages to which equipment is subjected in service, a study of equipment strength and protective methods and a correlation of the dielectric test voltages and the performance of equipment in service."
"High-frequency heating equipments divide into two main types: (1) those used for dielectric heating, and(2) those used for induction heating. The induction heating equipments again divide into seven types: (1) commercial power line; (2) rotary generator; (3) mercury-arc-converter; (4) gaseous-tube converter; (5) mercury-hydrogen-spark-gap converter; (6) quenched spark-gap converter; (7) vacuum-tube generator. Dielectric heating equipments in general use a vacuum-tube oscillator as a source of radio-frequency power ranging in frequency from 2 megacycles to hundreds of megacycles. At frequencies above about 200 megacycles,the power is generated by devices other than a conventional vacuum tube, such as a magnetron, Klystron or other microwave device. A dielectric heating generator is normally a high-voltage generator, and application requires high-voltage radio-frequency matching techniques. An induction heating generator is essentially a high-current device operating into very low impedance circuits and sometimes requires transformation in the load circuit to provide the desired heating effect."
"The following topics are dealt with: Electric breakdown; gaseous insulation; insulating oil; electric strength; non-tracking organic insulations; silicone glass fiber insulation system; silicone resins; high frequency ceramic dielectric insulation; tubular plastic insulations; corona test specifications; corona discharges; pyroelectric effect; ferroelectric material; wire and cable insulation; dielectric relaxation; polyethylene terephthalate films; dielectric materials; dielectric measurements; dielectric surface failure; and insulation thickness effects."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Two years ago at this Conference we presented a paper in which it was demonstrated that the sparking potentials of simple hydrocarbon gases could be related directly to certain physical properties of the molecules of which the gases were composed(1). In order to accomplish this it was first necessary to derive an expression relating the first Townsend coefficient, α, of a gas to the pressure, P, the applied electric field, E, and to the elastic and inelastic cross-sections of the individual gas molecule. By introducing certain realistic assumptions regarding the energy dependence of these cross-sections, it was possible to show that, (2) equation where Q represents the total elastic cross-section of the gas molecule, and εi its ionization threshold."
"In the past decade fluorine chemistry has advanced very rapidly and many completely fluorinated compounds have become available. These compounds, termed perfluorocarbons, were generally much more stable and inert than chlorocarbons, or chloro-fluorocarbons. Many of these high molecular weight perfluorocarbons are reported(1) to have unusually high dielectric strength whereas the lowest molecular weight perfluorocarbons have relatively low dielectric strength(2,3). The investigation reported in this paper was undertaken to obtain information on the variation of dielectric strength as the hydrogen in a hydrocarbon is replaced by the halogens (Cl and F). These results are reported for both low and higher molecular weight compounds. The high dielectric strength of halogen containing compounds has been attributed to the electronegativity of these elements. Fluorine is the most electronegative of all elements, and it might, therefore be expected that fluorine containing compounds should show higher dielectric strength than other electronegative gases and vapors. It has been shown to be true for SF6, and other fluorine containing gases and vapors(1). However, exceptions will be found in lower molecular weight compounds."
"Solid and gaseous dielectrics are both used for electrical insulation, either singly or in combination. Where solid is used as a major component, the detrimental effect of gases, such as air voids, has been discussed at length by various investigators. However, little has been reported on the effect of solid materials to the gaseous insulation. With the recent uprising trend of using gaseous dielectrics as a major insulation in cables, transformers and electronic equipment, it appears timely to examine the effect of solid insulation and contaminants that are often encountered in such equipment."
"The dielectric strength of liquids has been found to depend on electrode area. A study of 1600 observations of transformer oil breakdown, using four pairs of uniform-field (Rogowski) gaps, has established the extremal(1) nature of such breakdown distributions, and yielded an area-effect equation which agrees closely with test results."
"In our investigation of the mechanism of electric breakdown in liquids, we have endeavored to measure a value for the electric strength that is characteristic of the liquid itself; ideally, that value which is free from the influence of all external factors such as electrode composition, surface condition, and configuration. However, because the influence of such factors as these cannot be completely removed, we have attempted to hold them constant throughout our investigations by using a particular size of stainless steel hemispherical electrodes, whose polished surfaces have been prepared in a controlled manner. Our success in doing this is attested by the fact that this system of electrodes has yielded very reproducible results and made possible correlations of the electric strength with the molecular structure of two homologous series of liquid hydrocarbons(1,2)."
"From the results of this work, it seems that the actual mechanism of breakdown of an insulating oil is critically dependent upon the duration of the applied voltage pulse, and the magnitude of the hydrostatic pressure."
"The susceptibility to carbon tracking upon exposure to electrical arcs has always been a fundamental weakness of organic insulations. Although recent emphasis has teen on the development of organic materials with more versatile physical characteristics and improved high-temperature properties, comparatively little work has been published on compounding materials to specifically resist tracking under severe electrical arcing conditions. When electrical apparatus is exposed to moisture, salt fog or dust, leakage currents result which produce electrical arcing on the exposed surface of the insulation. Under severe conditions most organic materials will develop carbonized surface tracks and even porcelain insulators will crack and chip from thermal shock."
"Experience in presenting a paper on the subject at the 1954 Annual Meeting of the NRC Conference on Electrical Insulation indicates that additional background information on high temperature materials and additional tests on models are desired. Functional testing is rapidly gaining momentum in acceptance. The background of usage of high temperature materials, the importance of remaining practical in establishing a Test Code; the recent action of standardizing bodies in dictating 220°C hottest spot temperature for silicone bonded glass fiber insulation systems, the importance of distinguishing between the grades of silicones now on the market, how aging temperatures originated, the importance of correlating data with transformers in service and actual usage of the same insulation system in transformers in service is outlined in the paper. Barrier insulation of 16 model transformer structures has withstood the severe thermal, humidification and voltage shock when exposed to aging temperatures ranging from 276°C to 325°C, 48 hours to 384 hour cycling at the lower temperature for a total. of 1238 hours aging time. To expect failure by puncture in barrier insulation, it appears that a maximum aging temperature of approximately 350°C, 48 hour duration per cycle, and over five such cycles including humidification and voltage must be used."
"One of the objectives of the Signal Corps sponsored research program on ceramic dielectrics is to improve the impact resistance of high frequency ceramic dielectric insulation. The fundamentals involved indicated that increasing physical strength and decreasing modulus of elasticity should increase impact resistance, however, an analysis of the available data for these properties indicated that both vary directly. A consideration of the effect of tempering on the strength of glass, and the work of Hummel and Lowery(1) in which they realized an appreciable increase in transverse strength by thermally conditioning a ceramic containing 75% glass and 25% alumina, indicated the possibility that highly crystalline bodies might be effected by thermal conditioning."
"During the course of the Southwest Pacific campaign it was found that many of the insulations in use at that time were particularily susceptible to attack by fungus growth. As a result of these findings specifications were written by the armed services relative to the fungus resistant properties of these materials. Procedures for testing these properties were devised and the one that is accepted at present for testing fungus resistance is the Petrie Dish Test."
"The present requirements for establishing standard corona tests may be divided essentially into the following categories: 1. To establish a realistic test procedure for differentiating relatively among electrical insulating materials with regard to their ability to resist the direct action and by products of corona. 2. To establish standard corona measuring and calibrating circuits and to define the quantities which may be measured with such equipment. 3. To establish a test procedure and measurements which indicate the severity of corona in electrical components and equipment and which relates corona to life tests."
"A corona discharge can be detected electrically with a resistor or inductor in series with the test gap. The corona current pulse causes an electric oscillation in an inductance or a single sharp voltage pulse across the resistor. The disadvantage of this means of detection is in the interference from a signal which may be created across the inductance or resistance by corona or contact sparking outside the test gap, as, for example, by corona on the lead-in wires or by external radio noise."
"This instrument was developed as a solution to a problem which arose in our research on conductivity in rutile single crystals. In attempting to identify the origin of the charge carriers in the temperature range below 400°C, it was felt that photoresponse measurements would provide a clue. With illumination in the 1 micron region, a small transient photo current was observed with a d-c amplifier and recorder when the light was switched on. The peak amplitude of the transient was small, less than 10% of the dark current, and the decay time was that of the amplifier-recorder assembly."
"A dynamic technique for studying the pyroelectric effect has been developed. Pyroelectric current pulses of approximately square waveform are produced in pyroelectric crystals when they are illuminated with intense chopped light from a tungsten lamp. During a light pulse the crystal temperature, T, rises, thus causing the polarization, P, to change at a rate determined by the product of the pyroelectric coefficient, (dP/dT), and the rate of change of temperature, (dT/dt). This steady change in the polarization is manfested as a current pulse in the measuring circuit. The magnitude and direction of the current are determined, primarily, by the net pyroelectric coefficient and the direction of the net polarization of the crystal, respectively. The technique is a sensitive and non-destructive method for studying the state of the polarization of the crystal."
"Guanidine aluminum sulfate hexahydrate is ferroelectric over a large range of temperatures including room temperature. It is the parent of a family of materials in which the aluminum cation and the sulfate anion can be replaced by the anions and trivalent cations which form alums, for example Ga3+, Cr3+, and SeO4-. Replacement of guanidine has so far proved impossible, The material is trigonal, with perfect cleavage in the basal plane; the trigonal axis is the ferroelectric direction. The space group is C3v(2) - P3lm, and the unit cell contains three molecules. It can be readily grown from water solution by standard techniques."
"This talk is available as Technical Report No. 101, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and will appear in a forthcoming issue of Fortune Magazine."
"Several unexpected dielectric effects have been observed when certain organic compounds are solidified in electric or magnetic fields. When solidified in electric fields either alternating or uni-directional, the dielectric constant of these compounds in the solid state becomes higher than normal. For example the constant of a dielectric material called Nitrowax* can be increased over 70% by solidifying it in a 60 cycle field of 700 V/mm. The change appears to be the same in all directions in the substance and bears no relation to the direction of the field applied during solidification. The increase in constant is proportional to the strength of the field applied during freezing and also to its frequency."
"In the course of the investigation of the relations between microwave absorption and molecular structure in liquids, a question arose as to the effect of dipole orientation, in non-spherical molecules, on relaxation time. In order to investigate this effect, the critical wavelengths and viscosities of trioxane, pyridine, paraldehyde and collidine were measured at a number of temperatures. The results at 60°C. are given in the following table."
"The volume conductivity of polyethylene terephthalate films has been measured as a function of temperature in the range 65° to 150°C.; as a function of voltage in the range 1 to 1000 volts/mil; and as a function of film variables such as orientation and/or crystallization. Supplementary dielectric constant and loss measurements were also made. Previous work by Amborski(1) has defined the high temperature conductive properties of the oriented-crystallized (“Mylar”*) film and Reddish(2) has reported a comprehensive study of the dielectric constant and loss for the amorphous and crystalline polymer. However, the nature of the conduction mechanism could not be established from these data."
"Some sixty-six years ago, Sir Oliver Lodge machined a lens from a slab of hardened pitch and demonstrated that it had a beaming effect on the radiation from a spark-gap oscillator. While he was perhaps the first man to show that a lens would function as an aerial, he was by no means the first to propose that it would do so. In 1860 Clerk Maxwell designed a two-dimensional lens in which the refractive index of the lens material varied continuously as a function of position. He proved mathematically that it would scan 180° of arc."
"Successful dielectric measurements on soda lime glasses at frequencies down to 0.1 cycle per second were made by Stevels in 1953 at the Philips Research Laboratories. He used a phase shift oscillator directly coupled to a simple resistance-capacitance bridge. A long period galvanometer was used as a null detector."
"The new AIEE Committee on Dielectrics will promote the symposia on all aspects of the field of dielectrics ranging from theory to applications involving more than one type of apparatus. The principal purpose of the Committee will be to serve the design and development engineers who must apply this information to practice. The scope will include the treatment of all phases of the field including solids, liquids, and gases, as well as the mechanism of deterioration of dielectrics in general and particularly those caused by heat and corona. One of the major functions of the Committee will be the development of information and standard test procedures for the thermal evaluation of insulating materials. A number of test procedures are under development and one on the thermal evaluation of enamelled wire is now being printed by the Institute."
"The purpose of these studies was to investigate the source of noise which is generated when thin dielectrics are subjected to relatively low D.C. voltages(1,2). If the measured noise voltage is caused by the movement of ions or electrons in the volume of the dielectric between electrodes as shown by Haworth and Bozorth(3), then a semi-quantitative measurement of this noise might be a means whereby prebreakdown avalanches could be studied."
"Flashover strength has been measured for a group of solid insulating materials at several frequencies in the range from 60 cycles per second (cps) to 100 megacycles per second. The effects of exposure at nine conditions of temperature and relative humidity have been studied over the temperature range from -55C to 125C. The flashover voltage was measured across a 3/8 inch gap between 3/4 inch diameter stainless steel washers."
"Organic insulations compose. of parer or cloth base with phenolic or black asphaltic varnish impregnant are shown by extensive tests to have an aging rate in air dependent on the insulation thickness. A change in insulation thickness from that representative of turn insulation to that used for a major voltage barrier may increase its useful life in air by as much as ten times if in a dry atmosphere. `Iιe corresponding change in temperature class for a specific number of hours of life in air may be of the order of 30 C to 50 C for this change in thickness, under the same favorable conditions."
"The purpose of these specifications is to give a common basis of comparison among electronic voltmeters offered for generalpurpose applications. It is recommended that all manufacturers offering instruments for general applications supply the information outlined. For the purpose of these specifications, general-purpose voltmeters do not include instruments which are primarily intended for measurement of pulses or similar diseontinuous vaveforms, or instruments of the electrometer type which are designed to provide an extremely high input resistance (1010 ohms or more). It is recognized that a d d i t i o n a l information should be supplied with instruments in theseand other special groups which manufacturers should not be asked to supply when they are offering instruments for more genera1 applications."
