"The characteristic impedance of the shielded slab line is worked out exactly in terms of elliptic functions. A design graph is given to cover most practical applications."
"A new type of serrated choke will permit cuts or gaps anywhere on the walls of a rectangular waveguide. The low gap impedance is provided essentially by closely spaced, quarter-wave-length, open-ended, two-wire-line stubs. Low power and high power characteristics of many designs are presented."
"Two band-rejection microwave filters employing the waveguide cutoff effect are discussed. One type utilizes the cutoff property in the series arm of an E plane tee to improve the filter's characteristics, while the other utilizes this property in the E and H arms of a magic tee. Experimental data for both single and multistage filters are presented. Methods of obtaining low standing wave ratios over a broad pass-band are also presented."
"Very little published information is available on pulsing low power reflex klystrons. Since low power reflex klystrons have been generally designed for cw operation as local oscillators, a minimum of effort has been directed toward the development of specific low power pulse reflex klystrons. This paper summarizes an effort that has been directed toward pulsing typical low power reflex klystron with a description of the techniques evolved and a summary of the limitations and merits of each technique. Included also is a description of a pulse klystron \"priming\" technique that minimizes the effects of pulse shortening and leading edge jitter associated with typical pulse operation."
"Some properties of image circles for four-terminal networks are discussed. A procedure for correcting an image circle, obtained with a Iossy short, is presented. Indirect methods for determining the open and short circuit impedances of a symmetrical four-terminal network are discussed."
"Past methods available for measuring parameters of cavities terminating transmission lines are often considered too involved for production line testing. One common method requires many individual standing wave ratio measurements at frequencies slightly lower and higher than the resonant frequency of the cavity. These measurements take not only an excessive length of time but also require an accurately controlled variable frequency oscillator for precision measurements. A second method in which an oscillographic display of reflected power is used, while much faster, requires more complicated equipment and calls for use of unconventional measurement procedures. The method presented herein was devised to meet time and accuracy requirements on the production line. Its speedy results can be obtained from equipment and calculations with which production line personnel are familiar. Use is made of the same common sweep frequency method utilized in testing transmission and absorption cavities. This paper presents a derivation of the theory of the method, a description of the apparatus used, and a comparison of the results obtained with this and the point by point method."
"In testing microwave components for electrical breakdown under high power it is generally desirable to simulate conditions encountered in a system. For proper evaluation it is necessary, therefore, to employ a termination, the reflection coefficient of which is variable and which will handle high powers. Our attempt to manufacture a variable mismatch device similar to those described in the literature were unsuccessful, since we could not obtain sufficiently high insertion vswr without electrical breakdown of the tuner."
"Dr. Seymour Cohn has pointed out that the equation for attenuation as shown on page four of the article \"Double-Ridge Waveguide for Commercial Airlines Weather Radar Installation\" by the undersigned should be corrected to read as follows: Using a value for K of 1.2 which seems reasonable for this geometry, Dr. Cohn has computed the attenuation for the double ridge guide and obtained numbers of 0.0407 decibel per foot at 9375 mc, which agrees rather well with measured data."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper describes the theory of operation of coupled strip line tilt ers and directional couplers, and presents information from which these components may be easily designed. Low-pass, band-pass, all-pass, and all-stop filter characteristics are obtained from these coupled lines either by placing open or short circuits at two of the four available terminal pairs, or by interconnecting two of the terminal pairs. Directional couplers having perfect dk-ectivity and constant input impedance at all frequencies, and for all degrees of coupliig, are obtained by placing equal resistive loads at each of the four terminal pairs."
"Absolute measurements of noise-figures in the UHF range are described, using hot and cold thermal sources as standards. It was found that the noise temperature of the T-5 6 watt fluorescent tube is 16.1 kO.6 db above k T delta v. Noise diodes were found to be in error at these frequencies by approximately 1 db."
"Strip transmission lines offer an alternate medium in which microwave filters can be realized. Since bandpass filters designed in waveguide or coaxial lines would necessarily be large at ultra-high frequencies, strip lines provide a practical means of realizing filters which are simply fabricated and which represent an appreciable saving in size and weight."
"It is very important to know the impedances of crystal dilodes when constructing circuits such as mixers and detectors in which the crystals are used. It is always difficult to measure these impedances due to the nonlinear characteristics of the crystals but it is most difficult to make the measurements at minimum levels at which the crystals operate, since with such methods as the slotted line, the detector must operate at a still lower level to obtain the required probe decoupling. Thus, since the load whose impedance is being measured is itself a crystal operating at its minimum level, it is practically impossible to obtain a detector with sutlicient sensitivity to make the measurement. Crystal impedances at these minimum levels are of utmost importance as it is here that optimum matching is essential for maximum sensitivity. This paper describes practical tectilques which use only standard equipment to measure crystal impedances at low levels. The detector used is a crystal of the same type as that being measured. The method is capable of precise results and good measurements can be obtained at low levels with little more effort than is normally required in making careful impedance measurements."
"A simplified theory of long-line effect is developed leading to expressions for maximum tolerable line length and vswr. The theory is verified experimentally and photographic evidence of the deleterious effect of long-line behavior is presented. The prevention of long-line effect by various methods, includkg decouplingthe magnetron, attenuation, phase shifter, and ferrite isolators, is discussed."
"Tire propagation characteristics of periodically loaded transmission lines can be deduced from impedance measurements taken with a series of dlff erent terminating configurations in a manner analogous to the \"nodal shift\" ]method of measuring microwave junction characteristics. The non-Euclidean properties of impedance transformations form a particularly simple approach for analyzing measurements in the case of the loaded line."
"This paper shows that in this new frequency standard system the multiplication is made by synchronizing oscillation, which is achieved by quenching a microwave oscillator with a standard quartz-crystal oscillator. The output frequency spectrum of this synchronizing oscillator includes only integral multiple frequencies of a quartz-crystal oscillator. Each spectrum can be utilized as standard frequencies. Theoretical calculations and experimental results are also described here. And to avoid the influence of noise voltage on the build-up of the quenching control microwave oscillator, the double modulation system is used, which is controlled and intermitted simultaneously by both f1 voltage (output of the low frequency standard) and n1 f1 voltage (n1 is an integer). By this double modulation method we can understand that the build-up and the stop of the microwave oscillation are exactly controlled by the constant phase of the waves from the standard generator, and also the experimental results of this are described. As an application of this new system, a method of precise frequency measurement is also described."
"improved method for accurately determining the attenuation of waveguide from measurements on very short samples is presented. First, two samples are measured separately and then in tandem. When the measurements are properly made, the sum of the attenuations when the samples are measured separately agrees with the attenuation when measured in tandem at each frequency of measurement. Second, the average effective resistivity is found over a band of frequencies. Using the average effective resistivity, the attenuation at any frequency in the band can be determined. Results for WR159 copper waveguide are shown."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Born in Russia in 1915, in Ekaterinoslav, now Dnepropetrovsk, Edward L. Ginzton came to the United States when he was 13. He attended the University of California, receiving the B.S. and M.S. degrees in electrical engineering. With the encouragement and assistance of Dr. F. E. Terman, he transferred to Stanford University for graduate work in radio engineering, receiving the E.E. degree in 1938 and the Ph.D. degree in 1940, after specializing in the study of negative feedback and the theory and application of stabilized negative impedances."
"Many of us are so immersed in the ever-narrowing branches of electrical engineering that it is difficult to take stock of the accomplishments in the field as a whole or to visualize the possibilities and limitations of future developments. For those of us engaged in teaching and research, and who expect to remain in the field, such an assessment is necessary if we are to guide our students properly and anticipate the probable roles of our own specialties. I will review briefly present-day microwave applications indicating some of the spectacular developments during the past twenty years and try to make an appraisal of potential limitations in microwave research per se, and point to a possible profitable avenue of research for the future."
"The problem of evaluating dielectric constant and loss tangent by the short-circuited-waveguide technique has been encountered continually in recent years in the study of artificial dielectric media and radome materials. In general, practical measurements have involved materials with low loss and dielectric constants less than 10. The analytical method normally applied to data on such materials requires laborious computation. The available graphical methods have not completely eliminated computation and have provided answers of unsatisfactory accuracy. The present paper describes rapid graphical techniques for evaluating dielectric constant and loss tangent from the quantities normally measured with the slotted line, using samples of arbitrarily chosen length. It begins with equations previously derived for the case of low-loss media. By use of a new parameter, the relationship between dielectric constant and the measured shift in standing-wave minimum is plotted in such a way that all possible values of dielectric constant within any predetermined range are read directly from the graph with no computation whatsoever. A graph can be readily prepared to apply over a full range of frequency to all sizes of rectangular waveguide."
"A solution to the problem of propagation of higher modes in a transversely magnetized ferrite-filled rectangular waveguide has been found. The solutions to the problem are expressed in the form of four rigorous nonlinear algebraic equations which characterize the problem and are ready for numerical solution. The dependence of the fields in the direction of magnetization is the same as for the classical modes."
"The nature of the electromagnetic field of an antenna in the vicinity of a surface of large radius of curvature is discussed. Assuming a spherical surface, the solution for a dipole source in the form of the Watson residue series is transformed to a more rapidly converging series which is preferable at short distances. Using this result, numerical data is presented in graphical form for the currents induced on the spherical surface. The curves are applicable to both a stub and slot antenna mounted on the conducting surface."
"The effective noise temperature of the output impedance of a Iossy passive network at an arbitrary noise temperature connected to one or more resistive loads at arbitrary noise temperature lies between the highest and the lowest of these noise temperatures, as determined by the losses between the output terminals and the loads. The determination of the effective noise temperature of a gas-discharge noise generator over a wide frequency range is simplified by the substitution of a loss measurement for the more difficult noise temperature measurement. For minimum-noise radar applications care must be used in considering the excess noise of crystal mixers and gas-discharge duplexers. The influeuce of galactic radiation on a receiving system is such that there is an optimum frequency in the region of 200 to 600 mc for minimum \"operating noise figure.\" Typical examples of radio-astronomy measurements are amenable to analysis of the type given. Finally, several corrections to measured noise figure are analyzed."
"This paper describes a single-sideband modulator for shifting the frequency of an x-band signal by means of a rotating magnetic field transverse to a ferrite differential half-wave section. The device is one of the first practical applications of the double-refraction properties of ferrites. Improvements over an earlier model include reduction in size and continuous operation without drift. An efficient and compact magnetic structure has been designed for producing the rotating magnetic field. Excessive heating of the ferrite and voltage breakdown of the coils is eliminated by a forced-air cooling system. The modulator shifts the microwave-carrier frequency of 9375 mc by plus or minus 20 kc. With a rotating field of approximately 200 oersteds the microwave insertion loss is 1.0 db. The undesired sideband suppression is above 40 db while the carrier suppression is 23 db. For a frequency bandwidth of 500 mc, the insertion loss remains below 5 db."
"An array of parallel metallic plates of finite thickness are useful in microwave lenses. The effect of finite thickness in the idealized situation of a semi-infinite array of perfect conductivity, is treated theoretically and experimentally for normal incidence of a uniform plane wave on the plane interface separating the medium from free space. The theoretical discussion involves the approximate variational method and a procedure is given for estimating the order of magnitude of the error in the final result. It is shown that it can be advantageous to use plates of finite thickness since the reflection from the interface can be reduced from that existing for infinitely thin plates."
"A variational method is used to develop an expression for the characteristic impedance of a \"trough line\" consisting of a circular cylinder mounted inside and parallel to the walls of a semi-infinate rectangular trough. The \"slab line\" consisting of a circular cylinder between infinite, parallel plates is treated as a special case of the trough line in which the bottom of the trough is taken to be infinitely remote from the circular cylinder. The solution has not been restricted to cylinders that are mounted exactly half way between the parallel walls of the trough; a simple formula is presented for calculating the tolerances which must be placed on the \"centering\" of the center conductor for a given allowable error in the characteristic impedance. The expression for the characteristic impedance is presented as the sum of three terms. The first is a \"zero order\" logarithmic term, the second a \"second order\" correction term which vanishes as the center conductor becomes infinitely small, and the third is an \"off-center\" correction term which arises when the cylinder is not exactly half way between the parallel walls of the trough. The second order correction term amounts to about 0.3 ohms when the characteristic impedance is of the order of 50 ohms. A fourth order approximation using the same method changes this by about 0.001 ohm."
"During the evaluation measurements of several two-port junction devices over a wide band of frequencies the authors found that the method of shorts as described in three previous papers was too laborious to be practical. By reinterpreting and combining the ideas of earlier authors, a valuable simplification was obtained. Since this paper is based upon the previous articles, no fundamental proofs will be given except to show the necessary extensions involved."
"The isometric circles for the direct and inverse linear fractional transformations can be used for transformations of impedances and polarization ratios. In the Ioxodromic case an inversion is performed in the isometric circle of the direct transformation, followed by a reflection in the symmetry line of the two circles, and a rotation around the origin of the isometric circle of the inverse transformation. In the nonloxodromic case only the first two operations have to be applied. Three illustrative examples are given: the first shows the transformation of the right half of the complex impedance plane into the unit circle (Smith Chart); the second gives a circular proof of the Weissfloch transformer theorem; the third shows an example of cascading, Iossless, two terminal-pair networks."
"This paper describes a broad-band dual-mode waveguide transducer designed to couple two orthogonal TE/sub 11/ circular waveguide modes in separate rectangular waveguide ports. A compact, rugged, and economical junction has been developed to operate from 8600 mc to 9600 mc with a vswr of less than 1.15 at the rectangular port and a mode isolation of 50 db or greater. Developmental models are described to indicate the evolution from theory to the final model. Some problems encountered in attaining a small physical size are discussed in detail. The new junction has application to mode multiflexing, circular waveguide ferrite devices, circular polarization, and as a circular wave guide magic-T."
"Franklin S.CoaIe, author of the paper \"A Switch Detector Circuit\", which appeared on pages 59-61 of the December, 1955 issue of Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques, has requested that the following information, omitted in his manuscript, be published by the editors. The work for the paper was accomplished while Mr. Coale was a member of the Sperry Gyroscope Company under an Air Force Contract. P.J. Sferrazza, of Sperry, developed a band-pass crystal switch at 3300 mc which gave a dynamic switching of greater than 44 db over a 10 mc bandwidth."
"The method of measuring cavity parameters outlined in the above paper has been used successfully for some time by our laboratory for measuring parameters of cavities at X band having Q's as high as 150,000. For improved accuracy in these measurements, an additional refinement has been made in the method which makes all measurements independent of the law of the crystal detectors used."
"I would like to call your attention to a certain mistake in the above paper. Park's transmission line, consisting of two parallel strips between two wide plates [Fig. 1(a)], has to be changed to the line geometry indicated in Fig. 1(b) in order to maintain the results of the mentioned paper."
"A variation on the method described by Feller and Weidner for abtaining low standing wave ratios over a frequency band has proven to be very useful in the design of low vswr microwave components. If curve A in Fig. 1 represents the input admittance of the device to be matched, the method described by Feller proceeds as follows: 1) Insert a value of susceptauce which causes the curve to lie along a constant vswr circle (curve B). 2) Move toward the generator until the frequency sensitivity of the line length causes the curve to reduce to a point (point C). 3) Move to the nearest intersection with the g=1 circle (curve D). 4) Insert a value of susceptance which transforms the admittance plot to the center of the chart; i.e., a matched condition (curve E)."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"This book was written by the well-known American specialist in the uhf field who was one of the pioneers of waveguide techniques. As the author mentions in his preface, the book does not pretend to encompass fully the subject; however, in addition to a description of the fundamentals of the theory of waveguide transmission it contains extensive material devoted to the design and operation of various waveguide components and assemblies and also of electron apparatus applied in conjunction with waveguide apparatus. A part of this material was published earlier in periodicals but is being published row for the first time in book form."
"I should like to take advantage of this correspondence column to discuss briefly a problem which we at Clarkson College may have in common with many other private colleges. We believe that our undergraduate curriculum should include a course in microwaves and that this course to be effective must include some laboratory work. The problem is that it is very dificult to equip a microwave laboratory on the sort of budget existing in a small college. Commercial equipment is, in general, much too expensive and is really much higher quality than is required for simple student laboratory work. We have been able to meet our needs in part by constructing our own waveguide components and in part through the generosity of several concerns which have given us used or rejected equipment or made it available to us at very low cost. We have been given a variety of microwave tubes plus some oscillators and a number of waveguide and coaxial components which make it possible for us to operate our laboratory."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In the spring of 1955 the Administrative Com-mittee of PGMTT was looking for a new place to hold the yearly technical meeting of the group. The writer was present at the meeting where possible places were discussed, and he was aslied whether he thought a meeting in Philadelphia could be arranged. The idea of holding a local meeting devoted to microwave relays had already been discussed by him with others of the Philadelphia area, and accordingly it seemed as though the situation demanded that the national and local meetings be combined. Presentation of the idea to the Executive Committee of the Philadelphia Section resulted in their approval and agreement to participate as a co-sponsor. Later, the PGAP also agreed to co-sponsor the meeting."
"This paper discusses in a general way some of the properties of nonuniform, inhomogeneous, and anisotropic waveguides and transmission lines. No attempt is made to discuss in detail the behavior of any particular type of waveguide except for the purposes of example. Most of the points discussed are well known separately, but an attempt has been made to bring some of general properties of special types of waveguide together in order to unify them, and, thus, it is hoped, to contribute to the over-all understanding of guided wave phenomena."
"The properties of two-wire lines and single wire lines (surface wave transmission lines) are discussed on a comparative basis. The two-wire line is actually a system of two coupled single wire lines and thus requires a high degree of symmetry to maintain the desired wave mode. While the single wire line is more affected by bends it has the advantages that it is simpler in construction and is less susceptible to weather conditions. The main domain of the two-wire lines lies in the frequency range below 100 mc and that of the single wire line in the range above 100 mc."
"This paper describes the present state of the art with respect to rectangular ridge waveguide giving tables and data from standard waveguide sizes and constructional techniques for both rigid and flexible waveguide. The problems inherent in waveguide connectors are discussed along with the various methods for producing waveguide assemblies. The problems inherent with present-day waveguide standardization are also discussed. It is essential that a series of standard waveguide for high pressure operation and for extremely broadband operation (ridgeguide) be standardized. The latest RETMA miniature standard flanges are shown along with present-day thinking on a series of pressurized contact flanges."
"The discovery of a simple, low loss way to hold Faraday rotation constant over a broad-band (coupled with the development of wide-band, high return loss, circular-to-rectangular waveguide transformers, and polarization couplers) has made it possible to design and build a high quality circulator for use in the 10.7 kmc to 11.7 kmc band. The essential characteristics of the described unit include a more than 30-db return loss at each terminal, an isolation of 30 db or greater between \"isolated\" terminals, and a 0.35-db insertion loss between transmission terminals."
"A variety of methods for coupling between a shielded strip-circuit transmission line, operating in the TEM coaxial mode, and a surface waveguide have been investigated. The arrangements include phased dipole arrays, series ground-plane slots and Iongitudinal slot excited probes. Impedance and matching conditions for each are discussed together with their relative efficiency and bandwidth. In the case of a single radiating slot, measurements on the effective equivalent circuit have been made as a function of the orientation angle of the slot with respect to the axis of the strip-line guide. Slots used ranged in length from 0.3 to 0.6 lambda/sub g/, having length/width ratios from 5 to 16."
"Theory and performance of a narrow band circulator employing but a single junction and a 45-degree Faraday rotator are discussed. Factors affecting bandwidth are considered and pertinent curves are plotted. Isolation bandwidth curves permit prediction of performance. This compact circulator, although frequency sensitive, is tunable and provides high reverse and cross isolations making it especially suited to duplexing, isolating and switching applications."
"The extension of the (reciprocal) modified Wheeler network to include the more general nonreciprocal two-port is given. This representation is derived via a known decomposition of the general nonreciprocal network into two portions, one reciprocal, the other nonreciprocal. The reciprocal portion is then taken as the modified Wheeler network. Recombination of the elements results in the desired representation which is constituted of a minimum number, i.e., of eight, passive elements. Each of these is a natural idealization of a physical microwave component. Since six of the elements belong to the class of \"bilaterally matched\" networks, some of the properties of this class are discussed. Two of the bilaterally matched elements embody the nonreciprocal properties of the network: a one-way attenuator and a one-way phase-shifter. Many of the characteristics of the (reciprocal) modified Wheeler network carry over directly to this nonreciprocal representation. The microwave measurement of the network parameters is also indicated."
"For many years the design of loop type directional couplers has relied heavily on experiment. One of the most common varieties has been the loop coupler much shorter than a wavelength and having a built-in termination (vestigial arm). In this paper the criteria for the design of loop couplers of any length are considered, and their application to either coaxial line or waveguide are discussed. The theoretical basis for design is established by first considering the theory of coupled transmission lines. Several designs which utilize a quarter-wavelength or shorter loops and which have very desirable features with regard to coupling, directivity, and band-width are illustrated. Typical performance of couplers having couplings of 20-40 db and directivities of over 30 db are presented."
"The early resonance isolators, using nearly full waveguide height ferrite slabs, gave a high reverse loss per unit length but a disappointingly low reverse-to-forward loss ratio. By substantially reducing the height of the ferrite slabs, the reverse-to-forward loss ratio can be increased at the expense of reverse loss per unit length. More recently, it has been found that the addition of certain dielectric loading in rectangular waveguide resonance isolators results in generally improved performance. Thus, the reverse-to-forward loss ratio of these isolators is high (150 to 1 at X band) and the reverse loss per unit length is also high (20 db/inch at X band). The broad-banding problem will also be briefly discussed."
"This paper describes a system which can keep the power level in a microwave set-up constant with good accuracy in spite of variations of the input power level. The system uses a variable attenuator based on the Faraday rotation in magnetized ferrite and thereby achieves a frequency response up to about 500 cps with the present equipment and much better potential response. Variations in input power are reduced by a factor varying from 10 to 400 depending on available power and on the detector used to detect the output power."
"An analysis of four-arm symmetrical networks such as a branched directional double stub coupler or the hybrid ring (rat race) is presented. The input wave is broken into an even and an odd mode and the vector amplitude out the various arms is computed from the sums or differences of the reflection or transmission coefficients for the two modes. A zero decibel directional coupler is described and its possible use as a duplexer is proposed. The design of multiple stub directional couplers for any degree of coupling is discussed. A method of computing the bandwidth of all these couplers is outlined, and the bandwidth curves, the power out the various arms with respect to frequency of the zero decibel coupler, are computed. A tabulation is made for six different 3 db couplers (even-power split) and their standing wave ratio, evenness of power split and isolation of the fourth arm as a function of frequency assuming perfect performance at the band center."
"By use of properly proportioned half-wavelength transformer-sections in the arms of a waveguide series T broad-band performance can be obtained for switching applications. Over the frequency band 8200 to 9765 megacycles per second, corresponding to a bandwidth of 17.4 per cent, an experimental model showed an insertion vswr of less than 1.15 for transmission through the aligned arms and 1.30 for transmission around the bend. Further bandwidth improvement is possible with the use of a special arrangement of quarter-wave transformer sections but at the expense of further impairment of power-carrying capacity."
"A new type of microwave filter is presented in which resonance occurs in the form of a traveling wave rather than in the conventional form of a standing wave. This device is a constant-resistance circuit, and therefore presents a very low input vswr. Formulas for loaded Q and insertion loss are given. Experimental results verify the theoretical approach. This filter, which is constructed of a transmission-line loop and two directional couplers, finds application in multiplexing filters as well as in matched band-pass and band-rejection filters."
"A method of construction is described in which waveguides are arranged in a single plane with adjacent walls common. An assembly is made from a top and bottom plate between which partition walls are arranged to constitute the transmission region. A hybrid-T is made from a 3 db coupler, and a microwave repeater is described consisting of five band-pass filters, two hybrid-T's, an isolator, and several other component aspects. Setting up in situ is achieved by the use of a Bethe hole coupler to monitor the reflection or transmission at a number of specially located check ports. No electric coupling can be measured across a soldered fabricated waveguide wall."
"Detailed studies of transmission properties of the finline coupler have revealed existence of certain phenomena which adversely affect the transmission characteristics. A discussion of the origin and successful elimination of such effects is described. New applications for the finline coupler have been found in the design of hybrid junctions, twists and bends in multimode waveguide, and other polarization selective devices. The paper concludes with a presentation of theoretical and experimental results in the application of finline techniques to low-pass microwave filters."
"Design techniques for waveguide hybrid tee junctions, resulting in convenient structures and simple internal matching elements for increased bandwidth and power-handling capacity are described, and experimental data are given."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The solderless wrapped connection is introduced. The terms automatic factory and assembly are defined. Electronic industry growth over the last 30 years is discussed and its expansion during the next 10 years is predicted at 300 percent. The importance of modular building blocks and modular terminal spacing, in the program of standardization for automation, is emphasized. The solid-wire solderless wrapped connection is examined; hand wrapping tools, a wrapping gun and wrapping techniques are discussed. The high contact pressure principle is developed and documented by several photographs, drawings, arid curves. Data is presented concerning the relaxation of contact-tension with time and temperature. It is shown that tension reaches the 50 percent point in times varying from three hours (at 170 degrees C) to 40 years (at 57 degrees C). Reliability of the solderless wrapped connection and that of the solder connection are compared under vibration. Other advantages of the solderless wrapped connection are tabulated. Some applications to the wiring of telephone trunk circuit panels and general rack-and-panel wiring installations are given. Mr. Mallina concluded his talk by showing a motion picture of the wrapping gun in action."
"It is suggested that both the machinery builder and the user need to know the savings reflected in the end product. The \"break-even point\" is described as the time when the variable costs due to automation are less then the variable manual costs, by the amount of the automation capital investment. A break-even load curve relates savings during a regular 8-hour day to a longer or shorter working day. By observing the distinctions between fixed costs and variable costs and by using conservative estimates, the capabilities of the Mini-Mech system are presented. Three years is suggested as the useful life for electronic automation equipment, in contrast with the usual 15-year amortization period for other machinery, and with some confidence that the Internal Revenue Service will see eye-to-eye with the user. It is estimated that the Mini-Mech system might require an initial total investment of $25,000; machinery modification costs are estimated at 50% of this figure over the three-year period, as component parts and techniques are improved. At an insertion rate of 24 component parts per minute, the quoted variable saving is approximately $275 per day, and with a break-even point at 123 days. It is stated that, up to this point, hand methods are cheaper as a result of lower fixed costs; but beyond this point, machine methods are cheaper since accrued variable-cost savings will have liquidated the higher fixed costs of the automatic equipment."
"The speaker emphasizes that other automation systems seem to neglect the job-shop operator, Cuoting a machine tool manufactuyer, 75% of the metal working operations of the country are in job lots of ten to fifty; and at GE-Syracuse, military and commercial job-lot or semi-job-lot production exceeds by two-to-one the mass production of TV sets.and radios. The author proposes that GE introduce automation to small quantity production. Flexibility, minimum set-up time and skill, minimum tool investment, and minimum downtime, are named as some of the prime requirements. A report is made on thedevelopment of an Automatic Component Assembly System for the Army Signal Corps. The indicated approach, uses various combinations'of widths and lengths, from 1 to 12 inches, of printed wiring boards; and at a placspent rate of 50 component parts per minute. Standard component parts and conventional constructionsl methods are only slightly modified in the interest of standardization. Programming of a Weiderman punch press is accomplishedby punched cards. Following his talk, the author showed a motion picture as a progress report."
"It is pointed out that the radio-making machine of John Sargrove and the serigraphic methods of Brunetti and Khouri have repeatedly stimulated product engineering since 1946. The Sargrove method is briefly described. The early work of Snyder on printed wiring is discussed, and a unitized telemetering channel assembly -- of 1947 vintage - is shown. The author poses the complex question of whether to stock parts, assemblies, or complete units -- a prerequisite aspect to mechanized design which yet remains unanswered in both military and civilian electronics. As a general approach, however, a unitized type of construction is described as having a considerable long-range validity in terms of servicing, transferring of heat, and ease of sub-assembling. The early work by Danko on dip soldering is mentioned, and hot-peel strength data for foilclad laminates is presented. Early work on the printed wiring socket is outlined, and the flexible printed circuit shown at the 1951 IRE National Convention is reviewed. Attention is giveh to a study using limited printed wiring, and standard art and practices, as sponsored by the Wright Air Development Center. Using a transformer coupled intercomm as a vehicle, a common module was chosen -- fixed in cross section but graduated stepwise in length, so the component parts could be stacked. A wrap-around flexible circuit was designed which was adaptable to automation using a cam-operated multihead soldering machine. A mechanical lock of the component parts before soldering, and the importance of accessibility are stressed in the development. The paper is concluded with a series of curves on rejection percentages and on variables controlling printed circuits. A plea is made for the establishment of standard practices -- a role already begun by Various RETMA committees."
"To obtain proper magnetron operation in a specified mode and reasonable life, it is necessary to control the rate that the applied voltage passes through the range within which magnetron oscillations can build up, and to control the amount of current available for this build-up. A method will be suggested for determining the required pulseforming network and pulse transformer characteristics, using appropriate equivalent circuits to represent the network, the transformer, and the nonconducting magnetron. Studies based on this method indicate that, by proper choice of network and transformer characteristics, it should be possible to operate most types of magnetrons successfully without the use of despiking circuits."
"For information storage purposes, BaTiO3single crystals were grown, and typical data of the product are presented. Storage condensers using multidomain and c-domain crystals as a dielectric were produced. Memory as well as switching properties were studied with particular reference to their application in a multicondenser memory matrix. A method for testing bistable storage condensers was developed; typical data are presented. A gated, bidirectional pulse transformer circuit was developed, providing pulses of opposite polarity for writing and reading on the matrix leads. This circuit permits increase of the absolute ratio of matrix switching pulses from 2 to 1 to 3 to 1. Sequential, random or simultaneous sequential- and random-scanning of a multicondenser matrix are equally practical."
"This paper is concerned with analysis and with the development of method for designing constant voltage regulators. A constant voltage regulator will give a more nearly constant output voltage regardless of a limited input variation. This type of regulator consists of an input inductor, a transformer, and condenser connected as shown in Fig. 1. The series inductor resonates with the capacitance and drives the voltage across the transformer into saturation. The current limiting effect of the series inductor plus the saturation of the transformer results in a measure of regulation."
"A study of fluctuation voltage generated by dc current flowing in composition resistors has led to a convenient factor for expressing the noisiness of a resistor. This factor, or index, is named \"conversion gain\" and indicates the efficiency with which a resistor converts applied dc power to noise power, expressed in decibel units. The method of measurement is described, and results are given for various commercial resistors including some film types. The use of conversion gain for quality control testing is discussed. Also, examples are given of the use of conversion gain in computing interference in actual circuits."
"The two-element equivalent circuit commonly used in predicting the high-frequency or pulse-front response of a stepdown or step-up transformer is not applicable to transformers with turns ratios near unity. Furthermore, the transformer leakage inductance (the series element in the circuit) may vary with frequency or time because of skin effects in the windings, and the distributed capacitance (the shunt element in the circuit) varies with frequency or time, source impedance, and load impedance because of variations in voltage distribution. These variations are difficult to take into account in measuring the element values and also in using the values in the prediction of transformer response. A theoretical and experimental analysis has shown that a T circuit containing three inductances and one capacitance (or the mathematically equivalent \\pi circuit, which contains seven elements) can be used to represent a transformer of any turns ratio, and element values obtained from appropriate measurements give reasonably accurate results over necessary frequency range. Measurements are easily made with an rf generator and a vacuum-tube voltmeter. Greater accuracy with which high-frequency response characteristics can be predicted by this T circuit indicates a marked improvement in accuracy will result when T circuit is used in predicting response of a transformer to fast-rising pulses."
"A method of cooling certain types of electronic equipment incorporates in the chassis a simple plate-fin heat exchanger, sometimes called a cold plate or cooled chassis. To determine which internal configuration gives most efficient heat transfer, equations for cold plates are developed, and fin density, height, and thickness are varied. The effect on required power, coolant flow rate, and pressure drop is noted, and some conclusions are drawn as to optimum design."
"The ordinary NE-2 neon bulb possesses two-valued properties which make it valuable for use in logical gate circuits such as are used in digital computers. The cost of the NE-2 is of the order of $0.05 compared to an average unit cost of $1.00 for germanium diodes. In the logical gate application, circuit performance is relatively insensitive to parameter variations among bulbs. Both \"or\" and \"and\" gates, and combinations thereof can be built, and operation up to 30 kc easily obtained. Statistical studies of bulbs point out that the aging effects to be expected are a rise in voltage drop across the bulb and a reduction in the variability among bulbs. The change appears rather suddenly, after about 1000 milliampere-hours of operation. Equivalent circuits are presented, and simple circuit design techniques have been worked out."
"Ferrites and their applications constitute a rapidly developing field. This paper reviews the present status of the development, properties, and applications of ferrites and their significance to modern engineering. Magnetic ferrites were developed from a \"new look\" at lodestone, the oldest magnetic material known to man. Proper control of composition and heat treatment yields ceramic type bodies with high permeabilities, which were formerly obtained only in metals. This material has brought the physicist new insight into the mechanisms of magnetism, and has given the design engineer a variety of new materials with unprecedented combinations of properties. The unique characteristics of ferrites are bringing about revolutionary design techniques in inductors and transformers for use at carrier, radio, and video frequencies, and have made possible an important new family of nonreciprocal circuit elements in microwave applications."
"This paper reviews the design criteria of pulseforming networks, describes the characteristics necessary to provide a satisfactory output pulse for radar work, and discusses some of the factors which must be considered to produce a compact, practical unit."
"Highly peaked voltages are obtained by connecting a linear reactor in series with a steeply saturating reactor free from magnetic joints, if the combination is excited with a sinusoidal voltage, and the saturable reactor is tapped for the peaked voltage. Similar results may also be obtained from a composite design with plenty of magnetic joints if the return magnetic circuit is arranged in two parallel branches, one branch saturable and bearing the secondary winding, and the other nonsaturating, provided that the joints are so arranged as to make the equivalent parallel path for the secondary joint-free. Such a design is shown in Fig. 2 and explained in Fig. 3. A common wrong arrangement of the joints is shown and explained in Fig. 5. Peaked voltage obtained by the design of Fig. 6 is shown in Fig. 7."
"Since the disclosure of Project Tinkertoy in the fall of 1953, a program of research and development has been pursued aimed at improving the techniques and general electrical characteristics of modular electronic components. This article reviews the progress that has been made in the phases related to the electrical characteristics of the module. The program has been concerned chiefly with improving, modifying, or redeveloping the resistive, capacitive, and inductive elements of the modular system. For example, the range of the resistors has been expanded both with respect to power-handling capacity and tolerance limits. Two new types of capacitors have been developed for use with the module: a plastic film capacitor and a glass capacitor. An inductor has been designed for applications allowing the use of a universally wound, fiat type of element having a range up to 10 millihenries. A new tube socket has been developed that lends itself more easily to inexpensive mechanized handling. As a result of these and other developments, the principles of modular design are being more widely applied in commercial, industrial, and military electronic equipment."
"In this paper, the explosively increasing demand for energy storage capacitor applications is discussed with particular reference to the various special characteristics required and how they affect the cost, mechanical configuration, circuitry, and protection requirements. Of particular importance at this time, there is included a discussion of means of accomplishing lower inductance and \"Q\" factor improvement over conventional design. A brief discussion of capacitor fundamentals contributing to the control of discharge waves is presented to illustrate the need for precise determination of circuit characteristics and electrical parameters. Several application problems are discussed, illustrating all of the factors pertinent to the design requirements, and how to obtain them. Since most of these installations represent considerable investment and frequently the need for high reliability, means for protection both against voltage overshoot and isolation in the event of unit failure is also discussed. Thus, the information presented establishes the criteria for selection of large banks of capacitors under the most favorable economic and technical comditions, along with an assurance of reliable performance without excessive unused safety factor dollars."
"A consistent set of fundamental synchro and resolver definitions is presented with some application notes. The realizable performance of these units in a system is indicated. These definitions or Proposed Standards have been subdivided into three parts, as follows: I. Precision resolver definitions, II. Synchro control transmitter definitions, III. Synchro performance definitions. Each subject will be treated regarding definitions, schematic diagrams, errors, and pertinent data."
"Computations of contributary dielectric, inner conductor stranding and plating, outer conductor coverage and leakage, contact resistance, braid pressure and plating losses, and comparison with laboratory data indicates that the major emphasis to obtain low-loss cables, for use at frequencies above 3 kmc, rests with the outer conductor construction."
"Two materials have been used successfully for vacuum impregnation of magnetic amplifiers and similar devices for continuous operation at 325F or higher. Complete impregnation, even through layers of interwinding tape, has been achieved. One material is an undiluted silicone rubber capable of withstanding 500F continuously. The other is a rigid, filled epoxy resin using a nonvolatile hardner, which will withstand 325F continuously. With proper design, both materials will withstand high accelerations in vibration between --65F and their maximum operating tempera- ture."
"The precision wirebound resistor has undergone fairly extensive design changes within the last four or five years. The old \"open bobbin\" style resistor has been completely replaced by the molded thermosetting plastic enclosed resistor. The new design is capable of performing at extremely low and high temperatures, and will withstand rugged environmental testing, such as salt water immersion, humidity testing with polarizing voltage, and repeated temperature cycling. Improvements in design and in wire insulation have made it possible to operate these new units at higher internal temperatures, thus increasing their power handling capability. The protection afforded by the encapsulated housing makes the use of fine wire feasible in military resistors with consequent increase in maximum resistance value. This paper compares the old and new resistors, and discusses some of the factors which influenced the new precision resistor de- sign."
"The saturation range and the avalanche range of the reverse characteristic of a silicon rectifier and how these regions vary qualitatively with temperature and bulk characteristics of the silicon used are discussed. Also some reasons why these characteristics may vary from theoretical values are given. The forward current is discussed from the standpoint of the resistive component and conductivity modulation. The affects of temperature, device geometry, and bulk characteristics of both of these components are shown. In a general fashion, some problems concerning operating life and shelf life of packaged rectifiers are given."
"A new series of miniaturized multicontact connectors for high-temperature high-altitude conditions has been developed. The degree of performance achieved represents a considerable advance in the connector art. Both nonshielded and shielded contact designs have been incorporated in these connectors. Three exceptional features under extreme environmental conditions characterize these connectors: at altitudes in the order of 70,000 feet and temperatures of -- 85F., the connectors permit operation at 500 volts ac 60 and 400 cps and withstand test voltages of 1000 volts ac 60 cps. Connectors are moisture resistant continuously during a ninety day humidity exposure maintaining a minimum insulation resistance of 200 megohms. Operating temperatures for these connectors are +500F. to --85F. Design features and test data under the environmental conditions are presented."
"Evaporated metal film resistors have been prepared on ceramic bases which have properties that compare favorably with wirewound resistors. These resistors have been tailor-made for several different types of application. A molded style is available for general purpose applications. A coated version in nine different wattage ratings is aimed at power resistor applications. For high-temperature or high-precision requirements, a special hermetically-sealed variety is undergoing field evaluation. Controlled resistance-temperature coefficients having positive, negative, or near-zero values can be obtained. These resistors have much lower inductance values than conventional wirewound resistors. In addition, they are smaller in size and have a weight advantage particularly for the higher resistance ranges. They offer potential advantages when used for miniaturization or airborne equipment. Performance characteristics for the various types are presented and compared to their wirewound analogs and the existing military specifications."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The perturbation field caused by holes in a plane, infinitely thin screen of arbitrary material on which electromagnetic radiation is incident, can be split up in two fields, one of which is symmetrical in the tangential components of the electric, the other in those of the magnetic vector. Both fields satisfy equations within the holes which are generalizations of Bethe's conditions for the perfectly conducting screen and which can be used to derive approximate solutions of Kirchhoff type. The solution for a screen which absorbs practically all of the incident radiation is essentially different from Kirchhoff's result for scalar radiation incident on a so-called perfectly absorbing screen."
"Variational expressions are presented for the propagation constants of a waveguide and for the resonant frequencies of a cavity directly in terms of the field vectors for situations not covered in the literature. These situations occur when the electromagnetic problem is not susceptible of a scalar formulation and are typified by the presence of inhomogeneous or anisotropic matter. The variational expressions are applied to several illustrative examples and the results are compared to known exact solutions. The variational expressions are also applied to the derivation of certain perturbation formulas, some of which were previously obtained by different methods."
"The external radiation conductanceGof narrow half-wave axial and transverse slots on a circular cylinder, a ribbon, a knife edge, and a right-angle wedge are computed. The method is based on finding the total power radiated assuming a sinusoidal variation of voltage along the slot. The theoretical values ofGfor the ribbon of width2dare applied to the case of a half-wave slot cut in the narrow face of a rectangular waveguide which has a flush mounted plate or flange of width2d."
"Existing theories of propagation in magnetized ferrite media predict propagation constants which are independent of the rf field strength only if a number of restrictive conditions are satisfied. In general, however, the propagation constants are functions of the rf field strength and nonlinear propagation is to be expected. One of the conditions for linearity is that the rf magnetic field intensity be small compared to the static magnetizing field intensity. This condition can be violated when the peak power level of the wave incident on the ferrite medium is sufficiently high and indeed, it has been observed by the authors that ferrite loaded waveguides can become nonlinear at peak power levels as low as 1 kw. Results are presented of a study of the behavior of ferrite loaded waveguides at 9,400 mc over input peak power levels from 0.1 kw to 100 kw which includes power levels commonly encountered in radar applications. The dependence upon input power level of the ferrite losses, phase shift, and rotation of the plane of polarization is described for a number of ferrite materials. The effect upon the degree of nonlinearity of the intensity of the static magnetizing field is discussed as well as the dependence upon the dimensions of the ferrite."
"This report evaluates measurements taken during August, 1952, at a frequency of 100 mc as transmitted from three transmitting sites at elevations ranging from 6,220 feet to 14,110 feet above mean sea level. Six receiving sites were used ranging in distance from approximately 50 miles to 620 miles from the transmitter sites. Results are presented in terms of hourly medians of recorded field intensity and their distributions, as well as the over-all median values and deviations derived from these distributions."
"A body of radio data taken over an 80 nautical mile overwater link on four frequencies is analyzed, and the relationships to the vertical structure of the atmosphere determined statistically. The results are compared with the attenuation coefficients yielded by the theory for the first mode of a bilinear model as given by Furry. It is found that observation agrees reasonably well with theory at about 100 mc, but departs considerably for lower or higher frequencies. It is found that for a given height of the top of the superrefractive layer, an optimum frequency generally exists for which attenuation is a minimum."
"Methods of solution of problems of multiple scattering of electromagnetic radiation by randomly distributed obstacles are evaluated with respect to generality, accuracy, and suitability for numerical calculations. Exact solutions are found to be limited to infinite regions and are difficult to apply for anisotropic scattering. Approximate solutions of the transport equation are limited to simple regions and are very complicated for anisotropic scattering. Approximate representation of the scattering process with the classical diffusion equation permits solution for almost all conditions, but the solution is inaccurate near the boundaries of the region of scattering. Approximate representation of the intensity by a number of discrete components permits solution for many geometries. Several two-component representations have been developed which yield more accurate results than diffusion theory for anisotropic scattering. A six-component model appears to be considerably more accurate for most geometries but requires machine computations."
"It is shown that the properties of the radiation patterns of broadside and end-fire line radiators can be used to minimize the side-lobe level of the radiation patterns of uniformly excited rectangular arrays."
"The impedance parameters of coupled antennas are calculated by a variational method. The unknown coefficients pertaining to the trial functions for the current distributions on various elements are shown to satisfy a set of linear equations involving the excitation conditions, but the final formulas for the impedance parameters involve only the trial functions and the geometry. The method is directly applicable to the analysis of Yagi-Uda antennas, and the technique can be extended to coupled slots inside a waveguide or coupled radiating slots excited by waveguides."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A model of one-way transmission of microwave electromagnetic signals over the ocean surface is developed from experiment. The received signal is described as a vector sum of a constant direct signal, a coherent reflected signal, whose amplitude and phase are fixed by geometry and sea state, and a fluctuating reflected component of random amplitude and phase. By interpreting experimental data in the light of this phenomenological model it has been possible to relate, quantitatively, the coherent and incoherent reflected signal and total signal to geometry and sea state. The results give support to the theoretical expression previously derived by Ament and others relating the coherent reflected signal to \"apparent ocean roughness.\" In addition, the general shape of the curve relating the incoherent scattering to \"apparent ocean roughness\" has been established and its asymptotic value found."
"The radiation pattern of an antenna covered with a radome can be determined from the following data: The antenna Fresnel-Zone fields in the absence of the radome, and the fields inside the radome produced by a plane-wave incident from an external source. In certain cases the pattern calculations may be simplified without excessive loss of accuracy by using optical theory to describe approximately the plane-wave transmission through the radome, and neglecting scattering by the antenna in determining the fields inside the radome from the external plane-wave source."
"The vector combination\\overrightarrow{M}=(\\frac{\\mu}{\\epsilon})^{1/4} \\overrightarrow{H} + j (\\frac {\\epsilon}{\\mu})^{1/4} \\overrightarrow{E}which was in principle introduced by Bateman and Silberstein in order to shorten Maxwell's equations for homogeneous media, also proves to be useful for the treatment of inhomogeneous media\\epsilonand\\munot depending on the time). The vectorM\\rightarrowis to be considered together with its conjugated quantityM^{x}\\rightarrowobtained by replacing the imaginary unitjby-j. In a source-free medium the Maxwell equations reduce tocurl \\overrightarrow{M} + \\frac{j}{c} (\\epsilon \\mu)^{1/2}\\partial \\overrightarrow{M}/ \\partial^{f} = \\frac{1}{4} grad \\log \\frac{\\mu}{epsilon} \\wedge \\overrightarrow{M}^{x}and to the equation obtained by taking the conjugated complex value. This relation shows how an interaction betweenM\\rightarrowandM^{x}\\rightarrowis produced only by the inhomogeneity of the medium. The theory of scattering by special volume elements, as well as that of partial reflections against layers with rapidly changing\\epsilonand\\mu, can be based on the single relation (1) while fully accounting for the vectorial character of the field, The introduction ofM\\rightarrowandM^{x}\\rightarrowalso enables one to put many results of Luneberg-Kline's theory concerning asymptotic developments in a very simple form. As an example we mention the equation:grad S \\wedge \\overrightarrow{m}_{r} - i_r \\mu)^{1/2}m_{r} = c curl \\overrightarrow {m_{r-1}} - \\frac{c}{\\epsilon} grad \\log \\frac{\\mu}{\\epsilon} \\wedge \\overrightarrow {m_{r-1^{x}}}, which fixes all recurrence relations between the consecutive terms of geometric-optical expansions; these expansions are defined by the asymptotic development\\overrightarrow{M} =e^{ik^{s}} \\Sigma \\min{r=0} \\max{\\infty}(\\frac{i}{kc))^{r} \\overrightarrow {m_{r}}, for monochromatic solutions corresponding to some eiconal functionS."
"Two problems are considered: (1) The field around a dipole free in space. Contrary to the usual treatment, where the moment of the dipole is considered to vary harmonically in time, here the moment is assumed initially to be zero but at the instantt = 0to jump to a constant value, which it further maintains. (2) The same dipole is placed vertically on a horizontal plane separating two media of different refractive index. It is shown that the resulting disturbance on the plane is composed of two space waves and one surface wave. First the Hertzian vector at a distance\\rhofrom the dipole is zero. Att = t_{1}the disturbance arrives there through the less dense medium, and slowly begins to rise till, at the momentt = t_{2}, when the disturbance has had time to reach the same distance through the second (denser) medium it reaches its final static value and further stays constant. During the transitory intervalt_{1} < t < t_{2}the disturbance is found to be representable, apart from a constant, by a pure surface wave. The two problems are solved with the help of the modern form of the operational calculus based on the two-sided Laplace transform. The analytical tools of the operational calculus needed are explained in a separate paragraph."
"It is shown that the variational method of dealing with the integral equations of scattering problems is equivalent to solving the integral equation directly by Galerkin's method and using the standard formula for the amplitude of the scattered wave. The second method also satisfies the reciprocity theorem. It is therefore suggested that the reciprocity theorem be used as the basis of approximation without the introduction of variational formulas. The error involved in using an approximate solution is discussed and it is shown that only a special set of approximations can lead to accuracy at low frequencies. Some ways in which bounds for the error may be obtained in special problems are also given."
"Presents the dialog between participants of the combined panel session on propagation in doubly-refracting media and future directions for research in electromagnetic wave theory in modern physics."
"This paper contains references to several problems in electromagnetic wave theory which have been solved by numerical methods. In particular, it treats the methods and machines employed by groups at the University of Michigan, Willow Run Research Center, and at the U. S. Naval Proving Ground, Dahlgren, Virginia, in obtaining on a high-speed computing machine a numerical solution for the radar cross section of a prolate spheroid. At the University of Michigan the work was under the direction of K. M. Siegel, while R. A. Niemann was responsible for that done at the Naval Proving Ground."
"A finite plane antenna is considered which has holes on one side that act as sources of radiation and which is on the remaining parts of this side and on the whole other side perfectly conducting. The purpose of this paper is to develop an approximation method for the computation of the radiation pattern which works well if the finite plane and the distance of the holes from its boundary are large compared with the wave length. This is achieved by computing the radiation field of a corresponding infinite plane antenna and subtracting from it the field produced by the current induced in the infinite plane outside the finite plane antenna. Numerical results for the circular antenna with annular slit show that this approximation method is very satisfactory."
"The electric field intensity distribution was measured in the image space of solid dielectric microwave lenses at a wavelength of 1.25 cm for various displacements of the source from the principal axis of the system. The experimental results are presented in the form of contours of constant intensity in several receiving planes and also as plots of field intensity versus radial positions of the point of observation. It was found that the deviations of the intensity patterns from the ideal, Airy aberration-free distribution could be interpreted quantitatively in terms of the third order aberrations of optics. The very good agreement obtained with the scalar diffraction theory of aberrations suggests the usefulness of the optical concepts in their application to the centimetric wavelength range."
"Solutions of Maxwell's equations are presented which approximately satisfy the boundary conditions for corrugated and dielectric-clad conducting spheres. These solutions have the physical interpretation of leaky latitudinal surface waves. Values of the complex propagation constant are given as functions of the geometry. For large spheres the leakage is small and the transmission properties approach those of a trapped cylindrical wave on a flat surface. A corrugated spherical cap, used to support surface waves, has been found to have interesting possibilities as a low-drag omnidirectional antenna. Preliminary experimental results are offered as an illustration of the theory."
"Recently, mathematicians gave results on the approximation of periodic functionsf(x)by trigonometric sumsP_{n}(x). These results can be useful for antenna radiation and circuit theory problems. Rather than the least mean-square criterion which leads to Gibbs' phenomenon, it has been adopted that the maximum in the period of the error,| f - P_{n} |, is to be minimized. By linear transformation of the Fourier sum, aP_{n}sum can be obtained to give an error of the order1/n^{p}. The Fourier sum would give\\Log n/n^{p}. Limitations on the maximum ofP_{n}derivatives are introduced allowing one to obtain the order of maximum error. Antenna power diagram synthesis is then looked at with these results. The power radiationv^{2}of an array ofnisotropic independent sources equally spaced can always be written under the form of aP_{n}sum. Thus it is possible to give general limitations for the derivatives ofv^{2}in the broadside case and the endfire case. These limitations depend upon the over-all antenna dimension vs wavelengtha/\\lambdaand the maximum error. A practical problem of shaped beam antenna is examined. It is shown that, by using the mathematical theory, improvements can be made on the diagram from what is usually obtained. For circuit theory, physically evident limitations in timeTand spectrumFallow one to write the most general function under the form of aP_{n}sum, and thus to apply the mathematical results to that field. Formal analogy allows comparison of antenna pattern and circuit theories."
"Important source parameters and the characteristics of an ideal radio telescope are outlined. The resolution of a telescope antenna is given by Rayleigh's criterion as one-half the beamwidth between first nulls. The effect of source extent on the observed antenna pattern and the inverse problem of determining the source distribution from the measured pattern are considered. The range of a radio telescope is discussed and it is shown that some types of celestial sources could be detected far beyond the celestial horizon if such did not exist. The range of the largest optical telescopes is only half the distance to the celestial horizon, and it is pointed out that observations with large radio telescopes may be vital in determining whether a celestial horizon does in fact exist. The ultimate number of celestial sources that can be resolved with any radio telescope is given by Ko's criterion as numerically equal to the directivity of the telescope antenna."
"The present paper constitutes a summary of investigations of certain antenna systems with rotational symmetry, so-called ring arrays and ring quasi-arrays, which have turned out to be or can be supposed to become of practical importance. Particular stress has been laid on an investigation of the field radiated from homogenous ring arrays of axial dipoles and homogeneous ring quasi-arrays of tangential and radial dipoles; i.e., systems of respectively axial, tangential, and radial dipoles placed equidistantly along a circle and carrying currents of the same numerical value but with a phase that increases uniformly along the circle. At first a calculation has been made of the radiated field in the case where the number of elements in the antenna system is infinitely large. After that the influence of the finite number of elements is accounted for by the introduction of correction terms. Subsequently, the radiation resistance and the gain have been calculated in a few simple cases. The antenna systems described above may display super-gain. On the basis of the theory of super-gain an estimate is made of the smallest permissible radius of these antenna systems. Further an investigation is made of the field from a directional ring array with a finite number of elements to ascertain in particular the influence on the field of the finite number of elements."
"In this paper some analogies between antenna theory and the theory of optical resolving power are analyzed. The effect of the finite size of a rotating antenna on the informational content of the echo is discussed, without taking into account noise. From this point of view, the most important feature of the aerial is the highest angular frequency which is contained in its radiation pattern. Supergain is possible because no upper limit exists for this frequency. A simple method is pointed out for synthesizing a radiation pattern containing any prescribed set of finite angular frequencies. A numerical example is worked out."
"The Faraday effect of plane and guided waves is reviewed in Sections I and II. Section III deals with a cavity technique for measuring Faraday rotations in a circular waveguide with a coaxial ferrite pencil. In Section IV some experimental results are discussed, including the evaluation of the permeability tensor components, the relation between Faraday rotation and pencil radius, and ferromagnetic resonance in circularly polarized waves. The problem of the rectangular gyrotropic waveguide is taken up in Section V. A simple method of successive approximations is described and applied to the case of the square waveguide."
"THE PURPOSE of this paper is to supply a review of the experimental investigations conducted by a research group at the National Bureau of Standards on the subject of oblique incidence ionospheric scatter at very high frequencies. Emphasis is placed on the results which contribute to further understanding of the behavior of the scattered signals and the physics of the ionosphere. The main topics discussed are long- and short-term characteristics of scattered signals. Included under the latter are the results of simultaneous observations at closely spaced receiving points. Next experimental techniques are discussed from which the heights of the ionospheric irregularities can be deduced and results of their use at different seasons and times of day are given. It is found that all the scatter which could be observed with the available techniques resulted from irregularities in theEregion of the ionosphere, and most of it came from the lower parts of theEregion. The following section deals with the dependence of the scattering on frequency; a range of frequencies from 27.775 mc to 107.8 mc is examined. The main part of the report concludes with the results of an experiment which gave information on the dependence of ionospheric scatter on the angle of scatter. A final section reviews the results of some simultaneous observations in Alaska dealing with the characteristics of ionospheric scattering in the auroral zone. This section emphasizes the different and new results from the Arctic."
"Starting with the solution of two scalar problems in diffraction theory derived by MacDonald in 1915, it is shown that the following problem may be solved. An electric or magnetic dipole is situated in the presence of a semi-infinite, perfectly conducting, thin plane. This problem may be solved by appealing to an appropriate representation of the electromagnetic field. When the formulation is complete, we are left merely with a two-dimensional Poisson equation. The method serves to show why some orientations of the dipole are simpler to handle than others."
"By the use of an array of ten vertically-spaced antennas and a rotating wave guide switch, a portion of the height-gain pattern for a short radio path was obtained as a function of time for a wave length of 8.6 millimeters. In the analysis of the data taken across a small lake, the reflection from the water is assumed to be made up of two components. One component is a constant value equal to the median signal received at the antennas over the sampling period and the other component is a variable signal of the proper phase and magnitude to give the measured total signal at each instant. The angle of arrival, phase and magnitude of the fluctuating signal are obtained for a short sample of data and their characteristics described."
"Using Green's function methods, we express the field of a grating of cylinders excited by a plane wave as certain sets of plane waves: a transmitted set, a reflected set, and essentially the sum of the two \"inside\" the grating. The transmitted set is given by\\psi_{o} + 2\\SigmaC_{\\upsilon}G(\\theta_{\\upsilon}, \\theta_{o})\\psi_{\\upsilon}, where the\\psi's are the usual infinite number of plane wave (propagating and surface) modes;G(\\theta_{\\upsilon}, \\theta_{o})is the \"multiple scattered amplitude of a cylinder in the grating\" for direction of incidence\\theta_{o}and observation\\theta_{\\upsilon}; and the C's are known constants. (For a propagating mode,C_{\\upsilon}is proportional to the number of cylinders in the first Fresnel zone corresponding to the direction of modev.) We show (for cylinders symmetrical to the plane of the grating) thatG(\\theta,\\theta_{o})= g(\\theta,\\theta_{o}) +(\\Sigma_{\\upsilon} - \\int dv)C_{\\upsilon}[g(\\theta,\\theta_{\\upsilon} + g (\\theta,\\pi - \\theta_{\\upsilon})G(\\pi-\\theta_{\\upsilon},\\theta_{o})], wheregis the scattering amplitude of an isolated cylinder. This inhomogeneous \"sum-integral\" equation forGis applied to the \"Wood anomalies\" of the analogous reflection grating; we derive a simple approximation indicating extrema in the intensity at wavelengths slightly longer than those having a grazing mode. These extrema suggest the use of gratings as microwave filters, polarizers, etc."
"Solutions to source-excited field problems are frequently represented as superpositions of source-free field solutions. The latter are in general of two types: eigenmodes and noneigenmodes which are related to the zeros of the total impedance or alternatively the poles of the scattering coefficient of a system. The eigenmodes are everywhere finite and comprise a complete orthogonal set. The noneigenmodes become infinite in the infitely remote spatial limits of a region and are not in general members of a complete orthogonal set; examples are \"radio-active states,\" \"damped resonances,\" and \"leaky waves.\" Despite their physically singular behavior, the nonmodal solutions can be employed to represent field solutions in certain ranges."
"It is shown that the diffraction field of an incident plane scalar wave in the vicinity of a plane-screen corner of arbitrary angle can be found approximately by solving Laplace's equation. An approximate solution, which satisfies the boundary conditions exactly, is presented as a simple closed expression by generalizing the known solution of the half-plane problem. A special corner condition, in addition to Meixner's edge condition, is not necessary."
"The equation for the propagation of harmonic waves in a homogeneous medium is considered as the transform of an hyperbolic equation in one more variable. The boundary value problem of diffraction theory cans by this Laplace transform, be related to Cauchy's problem. The transformed problems are solved for 2 + 1 variables by methods introduced by Evvard and Ward in supersonic airfoil theory. As an example the diffraction problem for a strip is worked out and an asymptotic expression for the transmission cross section is given."
"It is shown that it is not necessary to apply the van der Pol-Bremmer expansion in order to obtain the Watson residue series without remainder integral. There appear two kinds of residual waves. Those of the first kind do not enter the object and correspond to the usual creeping waves for objects of infinite conductivity. They arise from poles in the vicinity of the zeros ofH\\upsilon(ka). Residual waves of the second kind correspond to waves transversing the object and arise from poles in the vicinity of the zeros ofJ\\upsilon(nka). They are of no importance in the case of strongly absorbing materials. Waves which are expected according to geometrical optics are obtained-as in the case of infinite conductivity-by splitting off an integral. Primary and reflected waves arise from two different saddle points of the same integrand which was thought of till now as only yielding the reflected waves. On the other hand the terms corresponding to the ingoing part of the primary wave give no contribution at all, but must be kept in order to assure the convergence of the integrals when shifting the path of integration."
"The classical solutions of the scattering problems for homogeneous spheres and circular cylinders are taken as the starting point for a physical discussion. The limiting cases arising if two or three of the parametersx, m,andx(m-1)are very small or very large are surveyed and interpreted. The remaining paper deals with bodies fairly large compared to the wavelength. It is shown that exact transformations and/or approximate theories may help in the problem of interpolating between rigorous results. It is also shown that the extinction by large bodies is due to a combination of the classical effects of diffraction and geometrical optics with the loss familiar edge effects and surface waves. The sign and magnitude of the edge effects for bodies of different refractive index admits of a simple explanation."
"When dealing with the problem of diffraction of waves, certain special functions appear which are defined by ordinary differential equations of the second order; for example, Bessel functions, Legendre functions, and Mathieu functions appear for the case of a circular cylinder, a sphere, and an elliptic cylinder, respectively. Exact solutions are obtained in the form of infinite series of such functions, which are, in general, poorly convergent when the wavelength is comparable with or smaller than the dimension of the body. In such a case the series can be transformed into contour integrals and then evaluated by the method of steepest descents or by forming the residue series. For this purpose asymptotic expressions for the special functions are needed. A similar situation arises also in the problem of propagation of short radio waves in a horizontally stratified atmosphere. In this paper a refinement of the WKB method is presented which enables one to obtain very accurate and compact expressions for such functions, which are particularly suited for the evaluation of zeros. The application of the method is illustrated for the case of Bessel functions, parabolic cylinder functions, Coulomb wave functions, etc."
"The absorption of very short electromagnetic waves by absorbing systems, which avoid reflection of the incident wave is a problem of practical interest. Three different methods are applicable: 1. Complete absorption of the incident energy can be obtained for one wavelength by using resonance systems of relatively small thickness; e.g., a resistance card having a surface resistivity equal to the wave impedance of free space and placed a quarter of the wavelength in front of a metal sheet; a dielectric layer of lossy material on a metal sheet, with the thickness of the layer equal to about a quarter of the wavelength in the material; a two-dimensional periodic structure of concentric resonant circuits arranged within the metal sheet itself. 2. The reflecting object can be covered by a thick layer of absorbing material, so that in a wide wavelength range most energy of the incident wave will be absorbed before reaching the reflecting surface. To avoid reflection, the absorption material can be tapered or arranged in different layers in such a manner that the loss tangent steadily increases towards the base plate. 3. The bandwidth of resonance absorbers can be widened without an increase of its thickness by combination of two specially dimensioned resonant circuits."
"Self and mutual impedances of a multi-element antenna system are discussed, and a method of approximation for these impedances is shown. The impedances derived by this method are applied to a theoretical analysis of the multi-element parasitic end-fire array. Various characteristics of the Yagi-Uda antenna computed by the theory are given in charts, and a procedure for designing the Yagi-Uda antenna is shown. Comparisons between the theory and experimental results are also discussed."
"This paper presents current electromagnetic research efforts and research completed during the past few years at New York University. In the research itself emphasis has been placed on basic problems involving appreciable mathematical complexity and mathematical methodology. However, this account describes the results from the standpoint of their contribution to microwave problems, ionospheric and tropospheric propagation, diffraction, the inverse propagation and synthesis problem, antenna and waveguide theory, and other physical problems."
"Using a specific form for the dependence of the permeability tensor components of a ferromagnetic medium on frequency and magnetizing field, the characteristic equation for the propagation constant in circular waveguide is written down. A method for discussing the complete mode spectrum of this equation is outlined. The general behavior of the spectrum is discussed."
"The object of this article is the study of the biunivocal correspondence established by the Pauli principle between the internal energy of a particle and the frequency of the associated wave in media which are the seat of strong coupling between the particles and when their spins are in a favored direction. In Section I, the determinantal forms of antisymmetrical wave functions are investigated, these being valid both for crystals and for electronic plasmas. It is shown that, starting from this determinant, two complementary series of wave functions can be constructed. Depending on the internal energy, two types of complementary particles are thus obtained: (1) free electrons associated with real waves, and (2) holes associated with evanescent waves. In Section II, a study is made of the mathematical analogy between the Schrdinger equation and the tropospheric propagation equation. It is shown that the potential energy can be assimilated to the refraction modulus and that the group velocity of the propagation around the earth can be assimilated to the group velocity of the complementary particle. By a very simple correspondence, the real modes of propagation predict the formation of holes while the imaginary modes of propagation predict the formation of free electrons. A special study is made of the analogy between the index barriers of the inversion layers and the potential barriers of the barrier layers. This analogy enables the existence to be predicted of purely electronic barrier layers without the need for any material support. In Section III, the rectification and photoconduction properties of these electronic barrier layers in magnetrons and in traveling wave magnetron detectors are considered. Their analogies with and differences from the barrier layers ofp-njunctions are examined. Finally, in the conclusion, the advantages and description of radar detection arrangements devised, on these principles, by the Compagnie Gnrale de T.S.F. in Paris, are set out."
"The exact curve is found for the nose-on radar cross section of a perfectly conducting prolate spheroid whose ratio of major to minor axis is 10:1, for values of\\pitimes the major axis divided by the wavelength less than three. The exact acoustical cross section is also found. The mathematical solution is obtained by setting up a series expansion for the scattered wave in terms of two sets of solutions of the vector Helmholtz equation and evaluating the undetermined coefficients in this series by applying the boundary conditions on the surface of the spheroid."
"The leading term in the asymptotic expansion for largek = 2 \\pi/\\lambda, of the fields reflected and diffracted by any convex cylinder are constructed. The cross section of the cylinder is assumed to be a smooth curve which may be either closed or open and extending to infinity. The method employed is an extension of geometrical optics in two respects. First, diffracted rays are introduced. Secondly, fields are associated with the rays in a simple way. The results are applicable when the wavelength is small compared to the cylinder dimensions."
"A system for the measurement of the variations in effective lengths of radio propagation paths is described. The observed path-length instabilities are considered to be caused by the same atmospheric turbulence responsible for the existence of VHF and UHF signals far beyond the radio horizon. Preliminary results obtained on 172.8 mc and 1046 mc along a 3-1/2 mile path are reported. It is pointed out that measurements of this type should provide a powerful tool for the study of the size and intensity of the refractivity variations of the atmosphere giving rise to the observed phenomena."
"An exact and closed solution is given for the motion produced on the surface of a uniform elastic half-space by the sudden application of a concentrated pressure-pulse at the surface. The time variation of the applied stress is taken as the Heaviside unit function, and its concentration at the origin is such that the integral of the force over the surface is finite. This problem gives an instructive illustration of wave propagation in a doubly refracting medium, since both shear waves and compressional waves are excited, and they travel with different speeds. There is, in addition, the Rayleigh surface wave. For a medium in which the elastic constants\\lambdaand\\muare equal, the vertical component of displacement\\omega_{o}at the surface is given by:\\omega_{o} = 0,\\tau < \\frac{1}{\\sqrt{3}},\\omega_{o} = -\\frac{Z}{\\pi\\mu r}\\{\\frac{3}{16}-\\frac{\\sqrt{3}}{32\\sqrt{\\tau^{2}}-{\\frac{1}{4}}} - \\frac{\\sqrt{5+3\\sqrt{3}}}{32\\sqrt{\\frac{3}{4}+\\frac{\\sqrt{3}}{4}-\\tau^{2}} + \\frac{\\sqrt{3\\sqrt{3}-5}}{32\\sqrt{\\tau^{2}+\\frac{\\sqrt{3}}{4}-\\frac{3}{4}}}\\},\\frac{1}{\\sqrt{3}}< \\tau < 1,\\omega_{o}= - \\frac{Z}{\\pi\\mu r\\{\\frac{3}{8} - \\frac{\\sqrt{5 + 3\\sqrt{3}}{16\\sqrt{\\frac{3}{4} + \\frac{\\sqrt{3}}{4} - \\tau^{2}}\\}, 1 < \\tau < \\frac{1}{2}\\sqrt{3+\\sqrt{3}},\\omega_{o} = - \\frac{Z}{\\pi\\mu r}\\frac{3}{8}, \\tau > \\frac{1}{2}\\sqrt{3 + \\sqrt{3}}, where\\tau = (ct/r),c-shear wave velocity, and-Zis the surface integral of the applied stress. The horizontal component of displacement is obtained similarly in terms of elliptic functions. A discussion is given of the various features of the waves. It is pointed out that in the case of a buried source, an observer on the surface will, under certain circumstances, receive a wave which travels to the surface as anSwave along the ray of total reflection, and from there along the surface as a diffractedPwave. An exact expression is given for this diffracted wave. The question of the suitability of automatic computing machines for the solution of pulse propagation problems is also discussed."
"The introduction of ferrite microwave circuit elements has allowed considerable simplification in the realization of many system functions. However, to date practical low loss ferrite devices have not been built to operate at frequencies below 3,000 mc. Many problems arise when one attempts to build devices to operate below this frequency. Some of these problems arise from the fact that mechanisms of loss occur in the ferrites at lower frequencies which are negligible at the higher microwave frequencies. In addition, at frequencies below 1,000 mc, one can seldom neglect the existence of internal anisotropy fields in the ferrite materials. The most fundamental limitation to the operation of ferrite devices at very low microwave frequencies, however, is that one is approaching the relaxation frequency for ferromagnetic resonance, and as a result the performance of all ferrite microwave devices must deteriorate at sufficiently low frequencies, regardless of whether one assumes a ferrite whose other properties are ideal. All these problems are discussed and quantitative expressions are obtained for the ultimate low-frequency limitation of ferrite isolators, circulators, and microwave gyrators."
"The general problem of determining the distribution of current and the driving point impedances of a square loop or frame antenna is formulated when arbitrary driving voltages are applied at each corner or when up to three of these voltages are replaced by impedances. The loop is unrestricted in size and account is taken of the finite cross-section of the conductors. Four simultaneous integral equations are obtained and then replaced by. four independent integral equations using the method of symmetrical components. These equations are solved individually by iteration and first-order formulas are obtained for the distributions of current and the driving-point admittances. By superposition the general solution for the abritrarily driven and loaded loop is obtained. Interesting special cases include a corner-reflector antenna and the square rhombic (terminated) antenna. An application of the principle of complementarity permits the generalization of the solution to the square slot antenna in a conducting plane when driven from a double-slot transmission line at one corner."
"This paper is a report on the investigations by the author and collaborators F. Berz, E. A. Ash, and D. Dracott at Imperial College. F. Berz has theoretically investigated wave propagation in a uniform plasma and found that even in the absence of collisions only damped waves can arise, because the fluctuating velocity distribution contains a term, overlooked by previous authors, which represents a flowing-apart of the electron density. The cutoff due to this effect alone is at about 1.15 of the Langmuir frequency, and the shortest wavelength at about 20 Debye lengths. Experimental investigations by E. A. Ash and D. Dracott extending over 5 years have at last elucidated the paradox of the existence of Maxwellian electron distributions in the positive column of arcs at low pressures. The interaction is not between electrons and electrons but between these and an oscillating boundary sheath. The sheath was explored by an electron beam probe and oscillations of about 100 mc observed under conditions when the plasma frequency in the arc was about 500 mc. Electrons diving into the boundary sheath spend about one cycle in it, during which time they can gain or lose energies of the order of several volts. Possible applications to radio astronomy are briefly suggested."
"This study considers the line-of-sight propagation of electromagnetic waves in a turbulent medium. Interest here centers on the received signal's phase stability. The field equation describing propagation through a region characterized by random dielectric fluctuations is first developed. Solutions of this equation which represent the scattered field are derived with ordinary perturbation theory. These solutions are next used to calculate the rms phase error for an arbitrary path in the troposphere. This approach includes both a three-dimensional and near-field description for the multipath, scattered amplitudes, thereby overcoming the limitations of previous treatments. The phase correlation between signals received on two parallel transmission paths is derived last to illustrate the role of overlapping antenna beams."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Reciprocal and nonreciprocal propagation of electromagnetic energy in an infinitely long rectangular waveguide partially filled with one or two ferrite slabs is described.Methods for obtaining exact solutions of the transcendental equations usually encountered in these boundary value problems are demonstrated for several structures. Calculations are carried out for a lossless ferrite and the phase constant is plotted as a function of the ferrite slab thickness. The cutoff conditions for the lowest TE mode are evaluated in terms of the ferrite slab thickness. New modes, not associated with the empty waveguide modes, are analyzed as ferrite dielectric modes, their propagation characteristics are discussed and the rf electric and magnetic field patterns are plotted. The rf electric fields are plotted for all reciprocal and nonreciprocal modes and the appropriate field configurations are used to explain the operation of ferrite cutoff isolators, the field-displacement isolator, the field-displacement circulator, and the nonreciprocal phase shifter. Solutions above ferromagnetic resonance are shown and theE-fields are plotted. A brief comparison of the operation of dispersive devices at high and low frequencies is made. The calculations are extended to include absorption loss, and nonreciprocal attenuation is plotted as a function of slab position near resonance."
"Various constitutive equations applicable to ferromagnetic and ferrimagnetic media are discussed systematically, the emphasis being on a formulation and analysis of the underlying assumptions. A distinction is made between the \"ordinary\" (Maxwellian) and certain \"average\" field vectors. The latter are useful in the presence of domain structure; they include appropriately defined spatial averages,\\langle\\overrightarrow{b}\\rangleand\\langle\\overrightarrow{h}\\rangle, of the time-dependent components of the ordinary\\overrightarrow{B}and\\overrightarrow{H}, respectively. In cases where\\langle\\overrightarrow{b}\\rangleand\\langle\\overrightarrow{h}\\rangleare connected by a \"point relation\", the general form of Polder's permeability tensor is extended to nonsaturated media; the special tensors due to Polder, the writer, and Wangsness, are then reviewed. In cases where\\langle\\overrightarrow{b}\\rangleand\\langle\\overrightarrow{h}\\rangleare not so connected, the \"exchange effect\" and the \"spin wave equation\" are discussed. Following Ament and Rado, three consequences of this equation are treated: the new boundary conditions, and the triple refraction and \"equivalent isotropic permeability\" in metals."
"Heuristic relations are derived between the specular reflection coefficient,R, and the radar echoing power of rough surfaces in which induced current elements are constrained to radiate equal powers in the reflected ray's direction and back toward the radar. To the extent that currents in the surface and fields scattered by it are calculable through a self-consistent formulation, a simple Fresnel-zone computation ofRshows that\\sigma_{o}, the radar area per unit area of mean plane, is proportional to| R^{2} |\\sin^{2} \\theta, where\\thetais the angle incident rays make with the mean plane. It is plausibly assumed that large scatterers on the surface cast shadows with \"beamwidth\" proportional to radar wavelength\\lambda; here the argument leads to\\sigma_{o} \\propto ( |R^{2}| \\sin^{2} \\theta)/\\lambda. In two appendices the law\\sigma_{o} = 4 \\sin^{2} \\thetais derived for a lossless surface obeying Lambert's law, and a known self-consistent \"solution\" of a rough surface problem is examined by three generally applicable criteria."
"A comparatively simple method for obtaining an asymptotic approximation to the electromagnetic field diffracted by a large aperture in a perfectly conducting, infinitely thin, plane screen is suggested. The method is based on two assumptions: first, that in some regions the scattered field is nearly the same as the field that would be generated by certain currents located on the edge of the aperture; secondly, that at any point on the edge of the aperture these currents are nearly the same as the corresponding currents for a half-plane lying in the plane of the diffracting screen, the straight edge of which is locally coincident with the edge of the aperture. In the crudest approximation the calculation is made on the basis that the half-planes are excited by the incident field alone; higher order approximations arise from a consideration of the interaction between the different parts of the edge of the aperture. Applications of the method to the cases of a plane wave normally incident on (1) a slit of infinite length with parallel straight edges, and (2) a circular aperture are considered. In the former case several terms of the asymptotic development of the transmission cross section in inverse powers of the slit width are given; in the latter case the aperture and axial fields based on the zero-order approximation which neglects interaction are compared with experimental data published by various authors and with some rigorous calculations of Andrejewski."
"The diffraction by a grating is examined (for spacing large compared to wavelength and dimension of grating element) for wavelengths in the neighborhood of the \"Rayleigh\" wavelengths. The shape of the elements, and their size in wavelengths is unrestricted. The results, including the effect of interaction, are expressed in terms of quantities relating to single scattering. Some properties of certain determinants formed from single scattered amplitudes are derived. The results are compared with those obtained by other authors, using various restrictions on the parameters."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"An electromagnetic interference pattern in the far-distance condition is utilized to determine the average dielectric constant of the underground propagational medium. The method depends upon the determination of the surface wave velocity by means of measuring the first self-resonance frequency of a dipole wire laid on the earth's surface."
"A conically-scanning antenna is described which consists of a scanner mechanism, rear feed, and 8-foot diameter parabololoid producing a pencil beam having equalE-andH-plane beamwidths. The polarization may be quickly changed from linear to circular to vertical polarization. The sense of the polarization is readily changed from left-hand to right-hand. The replacement of one section of transmission line by a half-wave plate changes the unit from a nutating polarization scanner to a twice-scan-speed rotating polarization scanner. The scanner incorporates some novel features such as a symmetrical rear feed having equalE-andH-plane patterns, high-power quarter-wave and haft-wave plates, and an orthogonal mode absorber. This paper describes the techniques which were employed to obtain the above mentioned performance. The problems encountered and their solutions are described."
"By choosing a suitable equivalent circuit representation for an array-type scanning antenna with the phase shifters in its branch lines, a general expression is derived for the radiation pattern in terms of the active impedances of the radiating elements, the incremental phase shift between elements, and the desired aperture distribution. If the active impedances of the radiating elements vary with beam position as a result of mutual coupling, or if the active impedances are constant, but different from the characteristic impedances of the branch lines, then an infinite series is required to represent the radiation pattern. The first term of the series is the desired pattern and the remainder can be defined as the systematic error. Individual terms of the series represent beams with relative angular positions which correspond to multiples of the interelement phase shift and with relative magnitudes which are dependent upon the deviation from a match of the active impedance of the radiators. The systematic error, if uncontrolled, can prevent the achievement of low sidelobe level. Experimental evidence is presented in support of the analysis."
"The image scheme of beam shaping for use at microwave frequencies is described. Cosecant-squared radiation patterns are obtained with parabolic reflectors no larger than those required to give pencil beams of commensurate beam widths. Radiation patterns calculated using diffraction theory are compared with measured patterns of a paraboloidal dish fed by a horn feed and one image horn. Experimental patterns are included to show the effects of variation of all parameters. A qualitative analysis of a paraboloid fed by a horn and several images is shown to agree with measured results."
"The Lebedev integral transform is applied to a class of boundary value problems in the theory of diffraction and antennas, including circular disks, apertures and hollow conical structures. It is found that the conventional Wiener-Hopf technique, together with this transform, does not explicitly solve these problems. Instead, one is led to an infinite system of linear equations for the representation of the unknown transform function."
"This paper is concerned with the location of the phase centers of microwave antennas. The inadequacy of conventional aperture theory for the accurate description of phase centers is discussed. Formulas are developed and, for numerical indications, calculations are made for paraboloidal reflectors of differentf/Dratios and a class of primary patterns which provide an approximate representation of a great many common feeds. The results are presented in graphical form to provide useful design information and show the dependence of principalE-andH-plane phase center location on feed and dish parameters. Contrary to the prediction of aperture theory, it is shown that the phase centers of axially symmetric antennas are not in the aperture plane, but they are dispersed about it."
"A new technique is described for obtaining circular polarization from a biconical horn. This polarization is obtained through use of a spatial array of thin conducting elements between the cone faces; orientation of the elements varies with distance from the feed. The method has been used successfully atSband andXband. This technique was applied to horns which have maximum radiation intensity in the plane normal to the cone axes as well as to other horns with beams tilted out of this plane. The beam tilt was obtained by an appropriate choice of cone configurations."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Experimental measurements on three loop antenna configurations are presented. The technique for obtaining impedance and current distributions using a single-wire transmission line over an image plane is described with particular attention given to the difficulties encountered. The results are reproduced in graphical form, and for loops where theoretical results are available, curves comparing theory and experiment are presented."
"Theoretical calculations have been made, using the single-scattering approximation, for propagation in a randomly inhomogeneous medium in which the deviations of refractive index from the mean are small. The statistical quantities considered were the variance, correlation function, and power spectrum for the phase and relative amplitude of the field at a point and their differences at two points. The emphasis in this paper is in indicating the transition from the ray treatment results to the scattering cross section results. The correlation function for the refractive index is taken to be time as well as space dependent so that the power spectrum can be computed from the original formulation."
"Admittance data on transverse edge slots in RG-96/U waveguide can be obtained by a technique called the moving lossy short technique. By this technique the radiation attenuation of a test section of identical slots can be determined. It is then possible to specify both the slot inclination angle and the slot depth of cut required to yield any conductance with in the range of measurements. These data were used to design an experimental 30-slot array with a 25-db Taylor aperture distribution. This array was successful, yielding sidelobes near -23 db. Subsequently, the same data were used in designing an 8-foot array with 432 edge slots having the same aperture distribution. This array had a half-power beamwidth of 14 minutes and sidelobes of the order of -24 db. These results compared favorably with design objectives."
"Small diameter parallel wires were imbedded in thin plastic sheets and located closely before an antenna dish receiving plane waveXband energy. Polarization was parallel to the wires, and the grating interval was varied between a fifth-wavelength and a whole wavelength for different panels. Received intensity was measured for varied grating tilt angles about an axis lying parallel to the wires and near the center of each panel. Sharp and intense transmission dips were observed for tilt angles at which the parasitic reradiation maxima lay in or near the end-fire direction. The shapes and angular positions of the transmission vs tilt angle curves are approximated by a tentative theory which assumes that the input impedance of the grating is independent of tilt angle and that the apparently absorbed power is proportional to the areas under plots of antenna array patterns. A more precise theory which includes the effect of varying input impedance was required to predict approximate amplitudes as well as sharp transmission dips of smaller magnitude."
"The diffraction of a plane electromagnetic wave by two identical slits in tandem is investigated for normal incidence with the polarization parallel to the edges of the slits. Theory shows that the scattering cross-section coefficient is proportional to the imaginary part of the far field forward scattering factor. The stationary form of the scattering cross section is developed in terms of the incident field and unknown currents on the edges of the conductors forming the slits. Calculations using the Kirchoff-type approximation in this stationary form for a tandem slit separation of0.157\\lambdaare in good agreement with the experimental values for slit widths greater than0.5\\lambda. Similar calculations for zero tandem slit separation, corresponding to a single slit, and for slit widths greater than0.3\\lambdaare in good agreement with those of the exact theory of Morse and Ruberstein, and as determined experimentally. The infinitely long slits are approximated experimentally by use of a parallel plate system described earlier by Row. The experimental results show an interesting resonance effect as the slit width changes."
"Multiple reflections of electromagnetic waves between two planes are studied, and the increase in directivity that results by placing a partially reflecting sheet in front of an antenna with a reflecting screen is investigated at a wavelength of 3.2 cm. The construction and performance of various models of such arrays is discussed. Thus, for example, a \"reflex-cavity antenna\" with an outer diameter of1.88 \\lambdaand an over-all length of only0.65 \\lambdais described which has half-power beamwidths of34\\degand41\\degin theEandHplanes, respectively, and a gain of approximately 14 db. It is shown that larger systems produce considerably greater directivity but that their efficiency is poor."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings, Part 1, Telemetry, Antennas, and Propagation."
"A sub-miniature transmitter that was designed primarily for use as a short-range multichannel \"on-off\" telemeter unit in a guided missile is described. The potentialities of the basic transmitter design, a receiver-recorder unit, and possible applications of the telemetering system are discussed briefly."
"Since the discovery in 1933 of ionospheric cross modulation (quite often referred to as the \"Luxembourg Effect\"), considerable interest has been shown with regard to this rather unusual propagation phenomenon since it provides, for the first time, a means for making controlled alterations in the ionosphere. The paper briefly discusses the physical processes thought to be involved, and experimental results achieved in the European area. The paper concludes with an analysis of reports of ionospheric cross modulation from the Voice of America 1000 KW long wave broadcast transmitter located near Munich, Germany. Practical applications being made of ionospheric cross modulation as a useful tool for studying certain characteristics of the ionosphere at E-layer height also are discussed. Several tape recordings of typical ionospheric cross modulation reception will be demonstrated."
"The object of this paper is to present some of the propagation results observed at 960 mc over a 350 mile path. The work was done primarily under the sponsorship of the Collins Radio Company. The path on which the greater portion of the data was obtained extends from Lamar, Missouri, to the Collins Engineering Building at Cedar Rapids. Some results of tests made at intermediate points under the sponsorship of the Rome Air Development Center are also included. The map of figure 1 shows these paths."
"A model of the distribution of ionization in an aurora is developed that can explain the aspect sensitivity of radar echoes obtained at VHF during auroral activity. Even when the radar is in the midst of a zone of auroral activity, echoes are obtained only from low angles of elevation in roughly the northern quadrant. However, both the horizontal and vertical angles over which echoes are obtained increase Significantly as frequency is decreased from 100 to 25 Mc/s. These observations can be explained in terms of columns of ionization parallel to the earth's magnetic field. The size of the columns must, however, be much smaller than suggested by Chapman (1952) or by Booker, Gartlein, and Nichols (1955). The column size required is of the order of 40 m in length and 1 m in diameter, smoothed so as to avoid discontinuities at the surfaces. It is quite doubtful whether the formation of such short columns of ionization can be associated directly with the formation of visual rays, even though the same axis of symmetry is involved in Both cases. The size of irregularities required to explain the observations is in fact of the order of magnitude likely to be involved in atmospheric turbulence, and it is quite likely that the earth's magnetic field could create substantial nonisotropy in the associated irregularities of electron density. Thus the strength of auroral echoes and their aspect sensitivity could be entirely explained as backscatter arising from nonisotropic atmospheric turbulence in an E region having a maximum electron density about a hundred times the normal value. Simple turbulence cannot, however, explain the remarkable fading phenomena associated with auroral reflections (Bowles, 1954)."
"In an earlier presentation, it was shown from measurements of sea clutter that the illumination of the scattering elements is a combination of direct and surface-reflected fields. Destructive interference between these field components sets in at small depression angles. This interference effect itself is dependent on frequency and wave height. It results in the so-called \"critical angle\", polarization dependence, and complicated frequency dependence. It also gives rise to \"spikiness\" at very small depression angles. When the interference effect is separated from the overall phenomenon, the remaining characteristics show a regular and rather simple behavior. Because measurements show that only a small amount of the intercepted power is back-scattered at small depression angles, a rather directive scattering mechanism is indicated. A theory was developed, therefore, based on plane facets as basic scattering elements. It was found that facets having a perimeter of about a half-wavelength back-scatter most effectively at small depression angles, and that the back scattering of a facet increases about as the square of its slope. Thus, facets near the wave crests contribute most strongly to the back scatter. The frequency dependence of the back-scattering parameter\\sigma \\degthen was shown to be determined by the size distribution of the facets. A relation\\sigma \\deg \\propto \\lambda^{-n}implies a facet densityN \\propto A^{-(2+n/2)}, whereArepresents the area of a facet. Experimental results were reported that showed\\sigma \\deg \\propto \\lambda^{-1}. In this paper additional developments of the theory are reported. Using for the slope distribution of the facets the representation given by Cox and Munk as a result of optical measurements of reflected sunlight, it is found that\\sigma \\degat small depression angles is approximately proportional to wind speed and must ultimately decrease with increasing frequency. Assuming the entire surface of the sea is composed of facets, an estimate of the limiting frequency to which the relation\\sigma \\deg \\propto \\lambda^{-1}can extend is made, and found to be about 2 mm. However, since the Cox and Munk representation of facet slopes omits whitecaps, this estimate likewise omits possible back scattering from whitecaps. It is shown that sufficiently below this limiting frequency,\\sigma /degis proportional to the fraction surface which is \"large\". The facet mechanism allows the qualitative variation of\\sigma \\degat large angles to be deduced. At high angles some of the facets are viewed broadside, so that these give a preponderant echo, which will be proportionately stronger the larger the facet. In the main (broadside) back-scattering beam of a large facet, the radar area\\sigmawill depend onA^{2}/\\lambda^{2}, but at the same time the average width of the beam will be proportional to\\lambda/A^{1/2}. Thus, for a distribution of facet slopes, the overlapping of the beams of adjacent slopes will be less the larger the facet. For a two-dimensional slope distribution, the extra gain of a large facet is just counterbalanced by the reduction in the overlapping of adjacent beams due to the narrower beamwidth, so that the total back-scattered power in the main lobe is about equal to the power intercepted by the facet. Since for small facets the total back-scattered power is much less than the power intercepted, it follows that the back-scattered power will be proportional to the fraction of the surface which is \"large\". Thus, since the fraction of the surface which is \"large\" determines\\sigma \\degboth at small and large depression angles, it follows that the frequency dependence of\\sigma^{deg}at high angles is essentially the same as at low angles, as long as\\sigma \\deg \\propto \\lambda^{-n}. However, if\\lambdais reduced to the point where\\sigma \\degat small depression angles starts leveling off, then the parallelism between the low-angle and high-angle frequency dependencies will cease. At high angles\\sigma \\degthen will remain sensibly constant with further decrease of\\lambda, since all of the facets will have become \"large\". The angular dependence of\\sigma \\degat high angles is determined mainly by the slope distribution. In fact, to a first approximation, the angular variation of\\sigma \\degis the complement of the slope distribution. At vertical incidence, using the Cox and Munk slope distribution,\\sigma \\degis inversely proportional to wind speed, and the ratio of\\sigma \\degat vertical incidence to that at grazing incidence is roughly inversely proportional to the square of the wind speed."
"A program of measurements of both the ocean surface contour and the radar echo therefrom was carried out jointly by the Naval Research Laboratory and the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in October 1955. The well-known pattern of interference between direct and indirect illumination of a target above the surface of the sea explains all of the results on radar sea clutter observed at long ranges. At shorter ranges and under certain sea conditions there is observed a dependence upon the polarization of the incident radiation. This result requires some additional assumption about the mechanism of sea clutter in a zone between the interference region and the region of specular reflection (large angles of incidence) where the dependence disappears. The radar echo observed using vertically polarized radiation was found to decrease with wind direction in the following order: upwind, downwind, crosswind. For horizontal polarization, downwind and crosswind were found to be interchanged at times depending upon radar wavelength, angle of incidence to the sea, and sea state. The observed mean square slope of the ocean waves in these three directions was found to follow the order observed for vertically polarized radar echoes. A correlation between radar echo and the cross-correlation of water height and slope is shown."
"Experimental measurements of the refraction encountered by 8.7 mm radiation in passage through the entire atmosphere have been made with an experimental radio sextant. The radio sextant tracks the sun continuously by means of the solar radiation at 8.7 mm wavelength, allowing accurate measurement of refraction. The refraction was found to be slightly larger than optical refraction."
"This paper describes an analysis and synthesis technique that can be applied to conical scanning antennas to derive % modulation, db difference and error signal slope in terms of half-power beamwidth, antenna aperture, wavelength and beam crossover level."
"The specific problems of diffraction by a half plane, and by a circular strip with a line source at its center of curvature are considered. It is shown how the geometrical optics current can be corrected by the addition of an equivalent line current at each edge. In each case the \"line current\" is determined by the incident field at the edge. The field of the line current is non-isotropic, its directional gain is determined. The line currents do not greatly affect the total pattern indicating that the main character of the diffraction can be obtained from the geometrical optics currents. Experimental results for a circular reflector with a line source at its center are given."
"It has been found that precipitation static noise is produced in antennas under plastic surfaces, even though these surfaces are covered by conductive films. In this paper the noise is shown to be due to a noise producing mechanism associated with the aquisition of charge by individual precipitation particles upon impact in the antenna field region. The existence of such a mechanism is demonstrated theoretically and substantiated by experiment. The production of such noise in antennas is analogous to the production of shot noise in vacuum tubes. Calculated results indicate that in practical antennas this process is capable of generating noise voltages of several hundred microvolts at a frequency of 500 kilocycles and a bandwidth of 3 kilocycles, while at lower frequencies the noise is even higher."
"The tracking of artificial earth satellites is here viewed as an integrated research program. The physical and orbital specifications of the first U.S. satellites are assumed in the tracking program planned under an assignment made to the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory by the IGY Satellite Committee of the National Academy of Sciences. The optical program involves early acquisition tracking by (radio or) visual means, frequent orbit calculations, ephemeris predictions for the precise photographic tracking, the establishment and operation of 12 to 15 precision photographic stations over the earth, operation of a communication net, and both current and final analysis of the positional data for important geophysical results. Such results include density determinations in the high atmosphere, geodetic system calibrations over the earth, shape of the geoid, iostasy investigations, and other geodetic studies to a precision an order of magnitude greater than presently possible."
"The next round of problems created by an earth satellite after it is placed in its orbit are those associated with proving that the satellite is in fact orbiting, and the measurement of its orbit. The magnitude of these problems for optical methods are discussed, and the Minitrack system developed by the Naval Research laboratory for acquisition and tracking of the satellite by radio techniques is described. A sub-miniature radio transmitter operating continuously for at least two weeks will be provided within the satellite to illuminate antennas at ground tracking stations. By phase-comparison techniques, these ground stations will measure the angular position of the satellite as it passes through the antenna beam, recording its \"signature\" automatically without the need for initial tracking information. Analysis of this signature will provide the complete angular history of the satellite passage in the form of direction cosines and time. These data will be transmitted immediately to a central computing facility for the computation and publication of ephemerides. Specific ephemerides will be transmitted to each principal optical tracking station to provide acquisition data to them. The probable tracking accuracies and the major problems associated with the Minitrack System are described."
"The earth satellite vehicle telemetering requirements are briefly presented. Primary problems are propagation over extended ranges utilizing light weight transmitters, diversity of equipment needs during the testing phase, reliability, and complexity of operations. Some of the general considerations and planning are given."
"A complete airborne data acquisition system for use in aircraft flight testing is described. A portion of Project DATUM (Data Acquisition and Transformation by Uniform Methods), this system consolidates and systemizes the accumulation and recording of flight test data. Older systems, once satisfactory for evaluation of subsonic aircraft, have been replaced by a more accurate, uniform, compact, economical system, exemplified by a transistorized airborne data acquisition system."
"The requirements of a high speed digital data handling system are delineated. The factors of present input equipment, desired sampling rate, storage and terminal equipment are considered."
"The VANGUARD satellite launching vehicle is a three-stage rocket of which the first two stages are guided and the third stage is maintained in a fixed orientation while it is firing. The first stage, an improved Viking, serves primarily to raise the remaining stages to altitude. The second stage, another liquid-propellant rocket, contains the guidance for the three-stage vehicle and, in addition, supplies some of the propulsive energy. The third stage, a solid-propellant rocket, is ejected from the second stage at orbital altitude and provides about half of the required orbital velocity. The VANGUARD launching vehicle system was chosen from a number of possible two- and three-stage vehicle combinations. It represents the smallest satellite launching vehicle consistent with the present state of rocket development."
"The radiation pattern of a linearly polarized antenna excited by a linearly polarized wave is shown to be dependent in amplitude, shape, and direction upon the relative polarization of antenna and wave. The dependence of beam direction on polarization is of primary importance in practical direction-finding problems. For most orientations of antenna and wave, the azimuthal pattern peak is shown to be shifted away from the antenna boresight direction. A function is derived based on a geometrical analysis incorporating arbitrary, polarization orientations, wave elevation angle and aperture inclination. To compute the pattern shift, the function is applied to a known theoretical pattern expression. Exparimental patterns are presented which show good agreement with computed ones. Curves are given of beam shift vs the elevation angles and beamwidths of a waveguide horn polarized at 45 degrees to the vertical. A simple test far predicting a possible polarization shift for a general antenna orientation is explained."
"A high speed digital data system has been constructed which holds up to 4,800,000 eighteen bit words on magnetic tape. This data is obtained from one hundred input analog signals at a rate of ten thousand words a second. The information is recorded digitally on the tape along with source identification and time. This tape can be played back through the system into two IBM 727 tape units and is compatible with the IBM EDPM 704."
"A description is given of the use of ferrimagnetic dielectric rods, to be referred to as ferrods, as end-fire elements of broadside X-band antenna array systems. The high dielectric constant of 13.6 has made possible a single ferrod radiator 0.24 inch in diameter and 4.5 inches long having a pencil beam 25 degrees wide and a gain of 40. The back lobes are negligible and the side lobes are at least 20 db down. Either linear or circular polarization is used. Practical broad-band array design data and radiation patterns are given for ferrod spacings of1.5 \\lambda_{o}in air and\\lambda_{g}in the waveguide. This dimension is approximately 1.8 inches. A cavity-feed arrangement is also described for high gain ferrod arrays, which allows adjustment of impedance match and amplitude of one ferrod without disturbing the others. In addition to the dielectric properties, the ferrimagnetic properties are used by applications of small longitudinal magnetic fields to the ferrite-filled cylindrical feed section. This field is used to switch the radiation on and off, rotate the plane of polarization, change the radiation modes, and vary the phase of the propagating wave. Simple high speed magnetic lobing and scanning arrays are described. Scanning speeds at megacycle rates are indicated. Circular and spiral scans are also obtained. In order to utilize the small size of the ferrod antenna system, microwave switches, circulators and phase shifters were designed employing ferrite-filled cylindrical waveguide. The longitudinal magnetic field required, for actuating the devices, is of the order of a few oersteds. This is the optimum configuration for applying the magnetic field, as the ferrite demagnetizing factor is low and the filling factor of the solenoid is almost unity. The antenna systems described constitute a first step in the development of an improved concept in reducing the size of microwave radar antennas. These first efforts were directed toward the problem of relatively low power, highly portable radars and radar beacons. It is conceivable that for wide angle scan applications a combination of ferrod lobing or scanning systems with additional mechanical motion would prove to be of optimum design. Long ferrod arrays to produce beam widths much smaller than one degree offer possible advantages over other systems of similar characteristics. Some of the advantages would be cost of construction, simplicity of design and ability to adjust each radiating element in the array independently. Arrays of this type should be of particular interest for work in radio astronomy."
"A method for designing a very long, nonresonant, linear array has been developed in which the array is considered to consist of a finite number of elements in tandem. Each element is made up of a group of identical slots and is assumed to reflect a negligible amount of power. The number of slots in each element depends on the aperture taper and on the minimum manufacturing tolerance. The array design formula is derived and presented in both recursion and series form. Design calculations enable either the dissipative attenuation in db for each element or an equivalent element conductance to be determined. The design method was used in conjunction with the construction of an array several hundred wavelengths long. The resultant antenna pattern and input VSWR are described."
"The electrical design of a high efficiency, constrained variable index of refraction, two point correction lens is described. The lens produces a 2.1 degrees azimuth beamwidth by a 2.7 degrees elevation beamwidth and is capable of being scanned more than 25 degrees either side of the lens axis. The variable index of refraction loading structures are discussed and the methods used to reduce lens surface reflections are described. Secondary radiation patterns and aperture efficiency of the experimental lens are presented for various angles of scan over a broadband."
"The system and system concepts described in this paper make use of the fact that when the operation of a remote control system is normal and \"reasonable\" telemetered information is of little value. When operation is unreasonable telemetered information is essential. The discussion applies to very high performance control systems such as the remote control and telemetering for a satelite vehicle, and it is also equally applicable to the simpliest form of remote control involving only a single variable, such as an automatic burglar or fire alarm. \"Talking Telemetering\", a method of better matching telemetered information to man's inputs (Thru his ears to his brain) is also presented. It is useful to rapidly communicate a small amount of information directly to man."
"A telemetry system with an integrated fast data reduction facility is described. This PCM telemetry system collects, stores, and presents 24,000 data points every second with an accuracy of one part in 256."
"A study has been made of the scanning properties of solid dielectric bifocal lenses. In two dimensions, a bifocal lens is a two-surface lens, symmetric about an axis, designed to collimate the rays from a primary point source lccated at either of two conjugate off-axis positions into plane waves making angles+\\alphaand-\\alpharespectively with the axis. A point-by-point technique used in computing the lens surfaces is discussed. Three-dimensional polystyrene lenses, each about 50 wavelengths in diameter and with\\alpha = 20\\deg, were built by rotating two-dimensional designs about their axes. The optical aberrations and the radiation patterns of three such lenses are described."
"A family of coaxial transmission line bridges exhibiting hybrid characteristics is described. These bridges differ from the conventional coaxial hybrid ring in that the balance is inherently independent of frequency. The impedances can readily be compensated within 1.4 VSWR over a one octave band. Printed circuit versions have been constructed. A precisely built hybrid for rigid coaxial line has found use in the laboratory measurement of very small impedance mismatches. Reflection coefficients of the order of 0.01 in 3 1/8 inch diameter transmission line are measured with a precision of about plus or minus 0.001 in magnitude and plus or minus 5 in phase angle at 200 megacycles. Direct oscillographic display of impedance is obtained with a network incorporating several hybrids."
"Approximate formulas have been developed for the impedance, efficiency, and Q of electrically small, ferrite-loaded loop antennas. The formulas are based on an assumed knowledge of these parameters for the antenna without ferrite loading. One set of formulas is based on an assumed internal magnetic field, i.e., the field in the ferrite. It is primarily applicable to ellipsoidal-shaped cores. Another set of formulas is based on assumed internal and external fields. It is primarily applicable to rod-shaped cores. The formulas are derived by using the reaction concept, which makes the result relatively insensitive to the assumed distribution. The results are used to evaluate the effect of ferrite size and shape. The results of a variety of measurements are given for comparison."
"A technique for conducting rapid UHF and Microwave propagation surveys is described. Experiments have been made using the terrain backscatter patterns of a radar PPI scope. The results are discussed and illustrated with photographs. It is shown that a radar PPI pattern may be interpreted in terms of the best siting positions with respect to the radar's location as a transmitting or receiving point. This method is independent of the availability of contour maps, or an intimate knowledge of the surrounding terrain. Precise quantitative data of path-transmission-loss acquired by this method is limited by knowledge of the reflection characteristics of the contemplated communication sites, although relative attenuation contours are readily obtained."
"A vertical array of colinear vertical dipoles is made of a series of sections of solid-dielectric coaxial cable with their inner and outer conductors transposed at each junction. Each section has an effective length of 1/2 wavelength in the cable, so the radiating gaps between the sections are all excited in the same polarity. A model designed for 450 Mc has 9 sections of cable; the length is 2.9 wavelengths in free space and the gain is 6 db over a half-wave dipole. This type of antenna has been developed in cooperation with Communication Products Company of Marlboro, N.J."
"Apota is a 20 db gain, circularly polarized, tracking antenna for the 217 MC Telemetering Band. It is composed of seven helical antennas forming a22\\degpencil beam with very low side lobes, and a phase shifter which cants the beam and causes it to nutate. Apota has tracked aircraft at 40,000 feet up to 240 miles which is the distance at which it meets the horizon."
"Many applications require reflectors capable of providing wide angle scanning of a pencil beam in a plane, and it has been demonstrated that the torus type is superior to other known reflectors for this purpose. The parabolic torus, in particular, is formed by revolving a parabolic generating curve about an axis parallel to the latus rectum. Scanning is obtained by rotating a feed on the arc of a circle centered on this axis so that, due to symmetry, radiation patterns are identical for all feed positions. However, the parabolic torus has inherent phase errors which limit the useful reflector area. This paper discusses a reflector derived by assuming a toroidal surface and numerically calculating the generating curve to provide a balance of phase errors over the illuminated area. The generating curve so determined was found to be an ellipse. Accordingly, this new reflector is referred to as an elliptical torus. In magnitude, phase errors from the elliptical torus are approximately one-half those from the parabolic torus. Radiation patterns from experimental reflectors show that for very large apertures in terms of wavelengths, the elliptical torus gives a narrower beam than a parabolic torus with the same aperture size and same f/D ratio."
"This paper presents very briefly the nature and origin of the International Geophysical Year, and in more detail two areas of special interest: rocket studies of the upper atmosphere and satellite studies. It brings out the scientific basis for the satellite program and the development of U. S. interest in launching a satellite for scientific observations. The present status of the program is commented on briefly."
"Several new antenna designs use the trough waveguide as a transmission line. Among the most recent are linear arrays made of resonant or non-resonant monopoles, slow-wave structures, a hybrid type of TEM-to-trough-guide mode isolator, and a trirod variable coupler. The trough guide invented by the personnel of Airborne Instruments Laboratory, Inc. is admirably suited to such applications because of its geometry, simple mechanical construction, and broadband characteristics. Typical examples that demonstrate its superior properties as compared with a rectangular waveguide having conventional slots or dipoles are the fixed-beam linear array and the mode isolators in trough guide whose designs are discussed in this paper."
"Summary form only given. This paper describes junction transistor switching circuits capable of reliable operation at a rate of 1,000,000 pps. These circuits consist of a flip-flop, a gated pulse amplifier and diode gates which together provide the basic building blocks of the arithmetic section of a digital computer. The designs are based on transistor types, such as alloy junction and surface barrier transistors, which exhibit low and consistent values of extrinsic resistances. As a result, complete interchangeability is obtained from a simple circuit. Several suitable high frequency alloy junction transistor types, both NPN and PN P, are available commercially in large quantities at relatively low cost. A minimum alpha cutoff frequency of 5 megacycles and a minimum alpha of 0.95 are the most important transistor requirements. Special devices such as Zener diodes are not required. Flip-flop rise and fall times of 0.3 microsecond and 0.2 microsecond, respectively, are obtained by the use of large drive currents, low values of collector load resistance, emitter followers to reduce lo~ding effects, and by preventing transistor saturation. High speed diode gates and gated pulse amplifiers which are relatively insensitive to changes in gating levels are employed."
"It is known that the driving source resistance and DC emitter current are two major factors in determining the noise figure of junction transistors. Other factors are the base resistance, low-frequency alpha, and alpha cutoff-frequency. A method of calculating the noise figure in terms of these parameters, the frequency variation of the noise figure, and the conditions for minimizing the noise figure will be presented. For the common base, common collector, and common emitter configurations the noise figure as a function of frequency is constant up to a given frequency value. Above this frequency, it increases toward an asymptote of 6 db per octave. Calculations show that for minimum noise figure the base resistance and emitter current should be small, low-frequency alpha should be close to one, the alpha cutoff-frequency should be large, and the driving source resistance has an optimum value. Experimental verification of the results to frequencies beyond the alpha cutoff-frequency will be presented. The work is based on a simplified version of a transistor noise equivalent circuit developed by A. van der Ziel (\"Theory of Shot Noise in Junction Diodes and Junction Transistors,\" Proceedings of rhe IRE, November, 1955, Vol 43, pp 1639-1646)."
"Summary form only given, as follows. Audio communication systems working through very high ambient noise levels require some kind of automatic volume control to maintain the signal above the noise and at the same time, protect the listeners' ears from painfully loud sounds. The problem is somewhat complicated by the fact that very little distortion can be tolerated. The electron tube predecessor of this amplifier used a remote cut-off pentode for automatic gain control. No such principle is available in transistor circuits. A large number of circuits were evaluated for automatic gain control characteristics. The most successful of these circuits was an absorption or shunting method in which the base-emitter resistance of a common base amplifier is the variable circuit element. A three-winding input transformer is connected between microphone and amplifier with the third winding being connected to the absorption circuit. A portion of the amplifier output signal is rectified, filtered and fed to the control transistor as its sole source of emitter current. This results in absorption of the microphone signal in proportion to amplifier output. A 30 db increase in input signal can be reduced to less than 5 db increase in output with the total harmonic distortion being less than 5%."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference. The 1956 Transistor Circuits Conference is sponsored jointly by the IRE Professional Group on Circuit Theory, The Committee on Transistor Circuits of AIEE, and the University of Pennsylvania. The Conference is patterned after the previous ones held at the same location for the past several years and will include information on both linear and nonlinear transistor circuit applications. Emphasis will be on material not previously available in the literature and the program is designed to be of greatest value to engineers who already possess some knowledge of transistor circuit behavior. However, there is one day of tutorial papers scheduled for the purpose of orienting those who are newer to this branch of science. Publication of many of the papers in professional journals is planned in lieu of Conference Transactions."
"Summary form only given, as follows. Fundamental restrictions on the gain, bandwidth, and sensitivity which can be achieved in multistage transistor amplifiers arise from the inherent internal feedback and frequency dependency of the device parameters. These gain and bandwidth limitations are discussed in terms of Linvills power gain charts and the resistance integral theorem. A new set of charts are then devised which permit rapid evaluation of the effects of load impedance on input impedance at a given frequency. A sensitivity criterion is defined as the percentage change in input impedance for a given change in load impedance. This criterion allows one to plot areas on the charts from which the load impedances must be selected for the required sensitivity. For small sensitivity, a relation between sensitivity and power gain is derived which enables one to determine how much power gain must be lost for a given sensitivity. This information permits direct comparison of neutralized and unneutralized amplifiers. The theory given above serves to specify operating impedances and insertion loss of the interstage and load networks at a set of discrete frequencies in the amplifier pass band. The design of these networks can again be cast in terms of the charts and power gain formulas. "
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Start of the above-titled section of the conference proceedings record."
"Information desk and informal group discussions information."
"Bells and chimes, unlike the more familiar string and wind instruments, produce tones in which the overtone structure cannot be expressed as a series of harmonics. The accuracy of tuning of the various overtones varies widely but the better cast bell carillons, electronic carillons, and tubular chimes do have very accurately tuned overtones. This paper describes the results of measurements on cast bells, electronic carillons, and tubular chimes. Data will be given on relative amplitude and decay rates of the various overtones. The reaction of \"out-of-tuneness\" will be discussed and explained. A new type of tone source for electronic carillons will be described. With this new tone source, a rod of carefully controlled rectangular cross section is used. This rod can give in a single unified structure essentially the same overtone array as that of an accurately tuned cast carillon bell."
"The specification of the performance of loudspeakers is a subject of international controversy at the present time. Several groups in this country are concerned with standardized methods of evaluating the performance of loudspeakers in order to have a basis for comparison. Several European countries are also concerned with similar problems. The measurement of the response-frequency characteristic and directional characteristics of loudspeakers is routinely performed by various laboratories. Sufficient agreement can be attained by the various laboratories to standardize this measure of performance. It is important to have a measure of the efficiency, that is sound power output vs electrical power input, and also a method of specifying the power handling capacity of a loudspeaker. Various methods are in use at the present time to indicate the characteristics of a loudspeaker concerning these two measures. The method of using a reverberation chamber to integrate acoustic power output and thus determine the efficiency will be discussed in comparison to the more tedious method of analytical integration of measurements performed in free space. Power handling capabilities of loudspeakers as determined by distortion measurements and mechanical or electrical failure will also be discussed. A summary of the various methods of specifying both efficiency and power handling capacity as used in various laboratories in both the United States and Europe will be included."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Articles published outside of the IRE thought be of special interest to the members of the IRE Professional Group on Audio, are abstracted here. Additional articles of interest are also noted."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The electrical and physical parameters which are of concern in audio transformer design and their relationships to the problems of miniaturization are discussed. A detailed design of two typical audio transformers for transistor application is presented to illustrate the application of the design information obtained in the SCEL investigation on the subject. Several methods of sealing these miniature units and the effect on the ultimate size are reviewed. General information pertinent to the design of miniaturized audio transformers is assembled in the appendix."
"A 3,000-watt audio power amplifier has been developed using the Bereskin power amplifier circuit described at the 1954 IRE National Convention and in the March-April 1954 issue of the IRE TRANSACTIONS ON AUDIO. Solutions were found for some interesting problems that arose in this connection. A unit capable of delivering more than 3,000 watts with less than 2 per cent distortion over a 400-6,000 cycle frequency range was developed. The design procedure and test data on the final unit will be discussed."
"Articles published outside of the IRE thought be of special interest to the members of the IRE Professional Group on Audio, are abstracted here. Additional articles of interest are also noted."
"The electrostatic loudspeaker, following development of new materials and methods, is now practical for high-frequency use in multichannel loudspeaker systems. Theoretical and mechanical design considerations illustrate the limitations at this stage of the art, including inherently high distortion at high output levels, and inability to withstand overloads. Principal advantages are low cost and efficient reproduction at extremely high frequencies."
"Graphical methods are presented with which one may determine the operating path upon the plate-current characteristic curves for several commonly used feedback circuits. These include the ordinary RC-coupled triode stage without a cathode bypass capacitor and two forms of the cathode follower: one in which the grid is returned to ground, the other in which it is returned to a tap on the cathode bias resistor. Once the operating path is established, the familiar computations which determine the gain, the 2nd and 3rd harmonic distortion, the dissipated and delivered power, etc. for the common triode stage may be used here. Excellent agreement is found between predicted and measured results."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Thirty-eight of the more important patents, from more than five hundred that were investigated, have been listed along with a complete bibliography of magnetic recording covering the years 1888-1952."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Articles published outside of the IRE thought be of special interest to the members of the IRE Professional Group on Audio, are abstracted here. Additional articles of interest are also noted."
"The need for light weight, low power consumption, reliable audio amplifiers in airborne intercommunication systems led to the development of a new series of amplifiers to meet these requirements. Careful evaluation of the influence of temperature on operating points and circuit stability is an essential part of obtaining a satisfactory and reliable design."
"Performance of ceramic pickups is compared to Rochelle salt and magnetic pickups. Whereas voltage-temperature characteristics of barium titanate ceramics and Rochelle salt crystals are relatively constant over a range of temperatures, ceramics exhibit a more stable capacity vs temperature characteristic than does Rochelle salt, and are not subject to damage due to arid and tropical conditions. The performance of piezoelectric pickups and magnetic pickups is analyzed with respect to the standard recording characteristic. It is concluded that crystal pickups are outstanding when high output is the principal requirement, where quality requirements are moderate, and climatic conditions are benign. Ceramic pickups are the logical choice when quality and economy are both important or where climatic conditions are severe or when magnetic induction is a problem. Current magnetic or dynamic pickups are indicated when the available amplifying equipment, or the present-day public opinion are the principal factors."
"Investigating the reasons why reproduced music gives an impression different from that which a listener receives during a concert, it was found that the distribution of the sound over the room is essential. Although stereophonic reproduction can give a sufficiently accurate imitation of an orchestra, it is necessary to imitate also the wall reflections of the concert hall, in order that the reproduction may be musically satisfactory. This can be done by means of several loudspeakers, distributed over the listening room, to which the signal is fed with different time-lags. The diffused character of the artificial reverberation thus obtained seems to be even more important than the reverberation time. Likewise, when a live orchestra is playing in an acoustically unsatisfactory hall (e.g., a theater), the diffuseness of the sound field and the reverberation time may both be improved by picking up the music by means of a directional microphone and repeating it through loudspeakers with different retardations. The audience does not experience the improvement consciously and ascribe it to the orchestra playing better. The performers, however, are aware of the change in the acoustics as making the hall more playable."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The graph presented shows the manner in which the membership, the expense per member, and the total income and expense has varied during the life of the IRE Professional Group on Audio."
"Articles published outside of the IRE thought be of special interest to the members of the IRE Professional Group on Audio, are abstracted here. Additional articles of interest are also noted."
"Listener preference rankings of selected samples of programs containing many types of flutter will be compared to measurements of the same flutter using a meter weighted with respect to flutter rate in accordance with the threshold of perceptibility. It will be shown that the correct weighting curve varies with the level of flutter, and modification should be made to the flutter meter in order to obtain objective rankings of program containing the same type of flutter."
"Frequency range preference of 210 college students for monaurally reproduced music and speech was determined by an A-B-A preference test. Two groups of subjects then listened to music reproduced over a restricted frequency range and a relatively unrestricted frequency range respectively for six and one-half weeks. The results of a post-frequency range preference test indicate that: 1) learning plays an important role in determining preferences for sound reproducing systems; 2) continued contact with a particular system produces shifts in preference for this system; and 3) the average college student prefers music and speech reproduced over a restricted frequency range rather than an unrestricted frequency range."
"Engineers working in the field of audio, especially if they deal directly with musicians, may find themselves at a serious disadvantage because of a lack of musical knowledge. The acquisition of such knowledge, on the other hand, can increase their professional prestige, improve the quality of their work, and open new horizons for personal enjoyment. The author of this paper, a musician of varied experience as well as an engineer, shows that a very useful background in music is not hard to obtain. This article specifies in concrete terms the information which should be acquired for basic musical understanding, and gives suggestions as to how this information may be obtained."
"A knowledge of the manner in which the acoustic power encountered in music varies with respect to frequency can be a useful tool in the design of components to be used in audio reinforcement or reproduction systems. This paper deals with the amplitude of fractional-second energy peaks, without reference to the rate of their occurrence. It is these peaks which must be considered when distortion is of primary consideration; average power is useful only in predicting temperature rise (where applicable) of signal-handling components. Throughout the discussion emphasis is placed upon the difference between average and peak energy consideration. The source material from which the distribution analysis is drawn consisted of recent commercial vinyl recordings played on a carefully equalized reproducing system. Ten various types of music are classified and a distribution curve for each is drawn. The methods used in arriving at a typical curve are shown by breaking the spectrum into octaves with a band-pass filter. The distribution information mentioned above is applied to the design of a three-channel loudspeaker system as an example of use. Other possible applications are mentioned."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Summary form only given, as follows. Hillel I. Reiskind (SM'52), manager of engineering for RCA Victor Records, died of a heart attack on May 7, in New York, NY, USA. He was 49. Mr. Reiskind graduated from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) in 1928, and spent the early part of his career with Paramount Pictures, Inc. as a recording engineer. He joined RCA in 1936, and in 1954 was appointed manager of engineering for the RCA Victor Record Division. He was a member of the Acoustical Society of America, the Audio Engineering Society, the SMPTE, and Sigma Xi. He will be remembered by his friends for the many important contributions which he made to the art of phonograph recording and reproduction."
"Presents abstracts for the articles comprising the conference proceedings."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Articles published outside of the IRE thought be of special interest to the members of the IRE Professional Group on Audio, are abstracted here. Additional articles of interest are also noted."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Articles published outside of the IRE thought be of special interest to the members of the IRE Professional Group on Audio, are abstracted here. Additional articles of interest are also noted."
"The characteristics of a finite exponential horn terminated in a physically realizable impedance have been calculated on an IBM 650 computer. Some of the results of the calculations and some experimental results of tests on such a terminated horn are presented."
"An experimental 9000-watt speech announcing system AN/AIC-11(XA-1) was developed for installation in a B-26 aircraft. The system was used for studies of direct communication through the atmosphere to ground personnel from aircraft operating at relatively high altitude. The equipment consisted of a turbine generator type of auxiliary power unit; three 3000-w amplifiers, each driving a separate twin-horn loudspeaker; signal preparation, control, and monitoring units; a loudspeaker mounting frame which rotates the loudspeakers and supports two of the twin horns outboard from the fuselage; and magnetic tape recorders."
"Correct phasing of microphones is most important when two or more microphones are connected simultaneously to a single transmission system. The phasing of all gradient and of some phase-shift microphones is reversed for rewardly arriving sound waves. In this paper the phase-frequency characteristics of most common microphones are described; methods for predicting or ascertaining the phasing of microphones are given; and a system is proposed for experimentally determining the absolute phasing of an unknown microphone."
"The RCA Victor Division Laboratories at Cherry Hill, New Jersey, include two \"sound proof\" rooms designed for acoustic measurements on television and radio receivers, phonographs, and loudspeakers. These rooms are located on the second floor of a steel and concrete building where headroom is limited. Each room is of the double-shell masonry construction. The outer shell consists of the concrete floor and ceiling of the building, and concrete-block walls. The inner shell is a complete masonry box weighing about 40 tons. It is completely isolated by steel springs under its floor and above its ceiling. This construction saved greatly needed headroom. Access to the inner chamber is through separate doors in each shell, specially designed and built for this application. Ventilation is provided through long multitubular treated ducts, spring suspended and isolated by felt and rubber. The internal acoustic treatment consists of Fiberglas wedges on the walls and ceiling and flat Fiberglas padding on the floor. This treatment is designed to produce the maximum absorption of sound in the available space. The over-all performance is adequate for making acoustic measurements at distances up to several feet from the source."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Theoretical curves are given showing the current-voltage relationship for a germanium point contact rectifier biased in the forward direction, and the dependence of the hole injection factor on current. The curves were obtained by graphical solution of equations similar to those derived by Swanson."
"The results of an experimental investigation on the large signal behavior of a kilowatt power level helix type traveling-wave amplifier tube are presented. Operation with and without attenuators was investigated using a movable electromagnetic probe to measure power level along the tube. Quite different effects of drive power and beam voltage on the saturation level were found for operation with and without attenuators. The maximum power level is lower for attenuator operation. Also, power levels do not continue to increase with increasing beam voltage and drive power. In contrast, attenuator-less operation produces the highest efficiency, and the power levels continue to rise with increasing beam voltage and drive power. Conversion efficiencies as high as 25 per cent are obtained with an attenuator and as high as 40 per cent without an attenuator. Efficiency calculations based on small-signal theory can be made to agree reasonably well with the experimental attenuator-less operation efficiencies by assuming an appropriate ratio of the ac component of beam current to the dc component of beam current, i/I0."
"The modes of the sheath helix are shown to be related closely to the space harmonics of real helices. Multiwire helices propagate many modes, the principal space-harmonic component of each approaching more closely the appropriate sheath helix mode as the number of wires is increased. Each mode can be excited by a certain phase sequence of exciting currents for the wires in one transverse plane. Experimental verification of the theory is reported using a bifilar helix tube. Phase velocities and impedances are measured, using Kompfner's null method and the start of backward-wave oscillations for the principal forward and backward components respectively."
"In this paper, a new approximation for the frequency dependence of the short-circuit current gain of a theoretical junction triode is derived, which is a rational function of frequency and convenient to use. It is shown that the approximation is in excellent agreement with the frequency response of the theoretical expression for alpha in both magnitude and phase to above the alpha cutoff frequency. The approximation is also considered in the time domain, where it is in good agreement except for small values of time corresponding to frequencies well above alpha cutoff."
"This paper describes a broadband-type ceramic output window for use in X-band microwave power tubes. This vacuum-tight window is capable of passing average cw power outputs of more than 250 watts, and can withstand temperatures as high as 750C. The window introduces a standing-wave ratio of less than 1.2 over a frequency range of more than 2,000 megacycles per second, and, due to lengthening of the arc path, shows little tendency toward arc-over."
"Scalloped beam amplification occurs when an rf signal propagates along an electron beam of periodically varying diameter whose scallop wavelength is adjusted to be one-half the effective plasma wavelength in the beam. The dependence of this gain mechanism on frequency, magnetic field, voltage, and current has been investigated experimentally, and over two db gain per scallop has been measured. In the particular setup used, positive ion oscillations caused smearing of true scalloped beam amplification effects."
"Equations are derived describing the large-signal operation of the traveling-wave amplifier, including the effects of ac space charge and attenuation along the helical slow-wave structure. The equations constitute a system of nonlinear partial-differential-integral equations valid with reasonable approximations for all values of the parameters which are encountered in typical high-power traveling-wave amplifiers. The parameters which appear in the equations are the relative injection velocity b, the gain parameter C, the large-signal space-charge parameters K and B, the loss parameter d, and the input-signal level A0. The working equations were programmed for and solved on the Michigan Digital Automatic Computer, MIDAC, located at the University of Michigan's Willow Run Research Center. The rf voltage amplitude A(y), the phase lag of the rf wave relative to the electron stream (y), and the velocity deviation 2Cu(y, 0) were computed and plotted for several values of C, K, b, and B at A0= 0.0025, and d = 0. Also, distance-phase plots are presented for each of the above cases. These flight-line diagrams for the traveling-wave amplifier are similar to the well-known \"Applegate diagram\" associated with klystrons. Zero-space-charge solutions are presented for C = 0.05, 0.1, and 0.2 with b as the parameter in order to determine the value of b which gives the maximum saturation gain and the optimum tube length. For C = 0.1 similar solutions are obtained for several values of the space-charge parameter K. Presented in graphical form, the results of these various solutions shed a considerable amount of light on the high-level operation of the traveling-wave amplifier."
"This paper is, in effect, a progress report on the continuing development of high-power, grid-driven, uhf beam power tetrodes similar to the 6448. It is divided into four main parts: 1) a brief history of the development and field usage of the 6448; 2) a review of the basic design philosophy and construction of the 6448; 3) a description of a new developmental 27-kilowatt uhf beam power tube, 4) a discussion of other new uhf beam power tubes for pulse service."
"The increasing importance of beam-type microwave devices has stimulated interest in focusing methods other than the usual uniform magnetic field. One such method applicable to hollow cylindrical beams, proposed by L. A. Harris, utilizes a radial electric field acting on a spinning beam to counterbalance the space-charge divergence forces. A traveling-wave amplifier operating in the 300 to 600 mc region, employing this focusing method, was designed and constructed. Experimental results obtained with this tube are presented. Beam transmissions as high as 90 per cent and net gain over 15 db were obtained. Practical considerations and tube design factors are discussed. The primary advantage of this kind of focusing is in the elimination of the solenoid, and consequent reduction in power supply requirements and weight, accessibility of rf connections to the tube, and elimination of capsule and aligning adjustments. This focusing method appears to have great potential usefulness in hollow-beam applications, and particularly in devices where the spiral motion of the beam can be made to interact with a spirally traveling wave."
"Dark-trace tubes or skiatrons have certain advantages over bright display tubes which make their use desirable for information displays. These advantages are the ability to integrate visually, to store information, and daylight and sunlight viewing. Since World War II, at the time the 4AP10 was used, several of the basic disadvantages have been corrected in part, such as erase time, writing speed, contrast and color. Several experimental tube types have been evolved and others are under development. Some radical improvements in one or more of the limiting characteristics have been achieved. These were accomplished in several ways, including low heat capacity screens, conductive film techniques, different screen compositions, special electron optics, and other techniques. The characteristics and limitations are summarized for different tube types together with several suggestions for possible further research and development in the field. The equipment design factors peculiar to these tubes, such as stringent voltage requirements, sweep failure protection, beam current limiting circuitry, and other items are discussed to aid preliminary equipment designers in the use of these tubes."
"Most traveling-wave tubes use solenoids to constrain their electron beams. Each tube requires a certain diameter, length, and strength of magnetic field, which are the basic specifications for the solenoid. In addition, for airborne applications it becomes important to minimize weight and power, and to provide suitable cooling. Methods have been developed for winding coils of aluminum foil, together with a suitable insulation. The ends of the coils can be machined, then bonded to a heat-conducting plate or cooled by an air stream. There is only one insulating boundary; thus heat is readily removed from the winding. This design permits operation at high current densities without exceeding safe hot-spot temperatures, so that aluminum coils can be made about the same size, for given characteristics, as copper wire coils. The saving in weight is thus proportional to the densities of the two materials. A further interesting feature of the aluminium foil solenoids is that the ends of the coils can be machined to almost any desired shape. Slots or holes can be cut in the coils to permit the introduction of power leads or mechanical devices."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The Llewellyn equations are shown to yield results identical with the space charge wave equations when the Llewell n matrix is iterated over very many very short regions approximating a nearly constant average electron velocity."
"The silicon alloy transistor is a high-frequency, p-n-p type transistor capable of operation at high temperatures. Its temperature characteristic, derived principally from the use of silicon as the semiconductor, permits operation from - 70C to 150C. It achieves its high-frequency characteristic through accurate control of the base geometry. The n-type base of silicon is accurately machined by jet electrochemical techniques. Alloy contacts of aluminum are fused into the bottoms of the etch pits without producing appreciable change in base geometry. The depth of alloy is limited by the thickness of the aluminum, by the temperature, and by the length of time for alloying. Lead wires are soldered to the aluminum contacts and the transistor hermetically sealed in glass-metal containers. The electrical characteristics of typical silicon alloy transistors include an Icoof 0.005 a, a common emitter forward current gain of 12, and an alpha-cutoff frequency of 12 mc."
"Modern techniques make it possible to build traveling-wave amplifiers with stable gains as high as 60 or 70 db. Such tubes can have relatively flat frequency response, and high gain over frequency ranges well in excess of two to one. In design it is necessary to pay strict attention to adequate isolation of the input and output so that spurious feedback paths do not cause oscillation or excessive variation of gain with frequency. In many practical applications, such tubes are required to operate with source and load impedances which produce large reflections of energy. Special design techniques result in tubes which are stable under such conditions. Another feature which can be achieved in modern tubes is a high ratio of backward loss to forward gain, so that the amplifier can very effectively isolate an oscillator. The recent design trend is toward higher currents and lower voltages, which is of direct benefit to the equipment designer, since it results in shorter tubes as well as simpler power supply designs, With the use of highly convergent electron beams, cathode current density can be kept quite low, and ion bombardment effects minimized, so that excellent life is achieved. Traveling-wave amplifiers may be readily phase modulated since small variations in the beam voltage yield large phase excursions. This characteristic is used for high level mixing. By proper gun design, it is possible to obtain good mixer action with modulation frequencies as high as a few hundred megacycles. The problems involved in obtaining the above characteristics and typical experimental results are illustrated by data on the STS-69, a half-watt twt for the 2 to 4 kmc frequency range."
"The gold-bonded germanium diode offers a practical example of a hemispherical p-n junction. In this discussion, a theory is given for the parameters of interest in design for such a junction; i.e., the breakdown voltage, forward current, and transient effects. It is shown that voltage breakdown differs from that for a planar junction due to the concentration of the field by the geometry, this effect leading to lower breakdown voltages. The forward current and reverse transient dependence on the radius of the junction, bulk properties, and the thickness of the semiconductor, are shown. The nature of the back contact to the semiconductor is also discussed. Since this is a design theory, rigor is sacrificed in some cases for simplicity. Despite this, comparison of the theoretical predictions with experimental results usually shows good agreement. The possibility of applying the results to other hemispherical geometries, such as point contact diodes, is considered briefly."
"The excellent gettering and gas retention properties of titanium metal make it highly suitable for use in vacuum devices. Tiny receiving tubes made with titanium parts are described which are capable of operating at high cathode emission densities. These high densities reduce the electron transit times and give better high-frequency performance. They permit the use of small electrodes and reduced heater and plate input powers. Vacuum devices made with titanium and ceramic parts can be operated for long periods of time at temperatures up to 700C."
"In order to control the electrical parameters of drift transistors, it was found necessary to control the impurity concentration gradient in the base. An extension of the space charge widening theory provides a method of calculating this gradient, the surface concentration, and the diffusion coefficient. By this method, the diffusion coefficient of arsenic into germanium at 725C was found to be 3.1  10-12cm2/second and the initial surface concentration was of the order of 1020atoms/cm3. Universal graphs for design calculations and rapid reference are presented."
"This paper is concerned only with the study of primary grid emission of various types of grid materials resulting from the evaporation products of L, impregnated, oxide-coated, and thoriated tungsten cathodes. The factors contributing to grid emission are analyzed. A detailed discussion of the performance of titanium, which exhibits excellent grid emission inhibiting properties, is included. In our investigation a planar triode construction was used, the grids of which consisted of a two-terminal loop of 0.010 inch diameter wire. In the assembly and processing utmost precautions were taken to insure minimum contamination of the various elements. The methods of assembly and processing are fully described in the paper. These tubes were tested using pulsed and dc techniques, and a discussion of the testing methods is included. The work function of a tungsten grid exposed to the evaporation products of the L, impregnated, and oxide-coated cathodes varies from 1.2 to 2.0 ev, the final value depending upon the past history of the cathodes, namely, the nature of the surface of the grid and the temperature and length of exposure to the cathodes."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Positive ion oscillations occurring in a long electron beam were investigated experimentally. The predominant direction of oscillation was found to be transverse to the direction of electron flow, and the frequency of oscillation was found to be three times higher than existing theory predicts. In pulsed beams the onset time of irregularities in current flow due to positive ion formation was found to be inversely proportional to current, and in some cases positive ion effects were observed to take place within four microseconds of the beginning of the pulse."
"Interest in high speed transistor switching circuits whose operation is unaffected by large changes in ambient temperature led to an investigation of silicon-germanium alloy point-contact transistors because of the larger forbidden energy gap of silicon-germanium alloys. In germanium transistors, as far as temperature stability is concerned, Ic0is particularly poor. Ic0is the value of collector current, at a given collector voltage, with no emitter current. The Ic0of germanium units tested rose rather linearly from 20C. to about 65C., with a gradient of 25 a/C. but then entered a region of run away. A number of point-contact transistors have been manufactured using 3 per cent silion-germanium (10 ohm-cm, n-type), and the parameters r11, r12, r22, , fc0and Ic0at room temperature, and values of Ic0as a function of temperature have been measured. Results show that 3 per cent silicon-germanium transistors are as good as germanium transistors in all respects and better in temperature stability. The values of Ic0for silicon-germanium transistors rose linearly from 18 to about 95C., with a gradient comparable to that of the germanium units below 65C."
"The retarding-field oscillator is similar in operation and applications to the reflex klystron but is simpler in structure. In this paper a new low-voltage design is described and some of its experimental characteristics are presented. These include a power output in excess of 40 milliwatts in the wavelength range 0.9-1.1 cm with an anode potential of 400 volts and a beam current of 26 milliamperes. A brief comparison is made between this low voltage retarding-field oscillator and known available reflex klystrons."
"Several recent papers have used the analogy between an electron beam and a transmission line to discuss beam noise and the minimum noise figure of amplifiers. Despite their basic similarity the treatments given differ so much that it has seemed worthwhile to attempt to review the field and relate the different approaches."
"The property of magnetoresistivity can be employed to produce tuned amplifiers and oscillators principally for the sub-audio and possibly for the audio range. To accomplish this, a strip or a coil of a magnetoresistive material, such as bismuth, is placed in the magnetic circuit of a laminated or a ferrite core of an inductor and appropriately wired into an electric circuit containing a dc power supply. The circuitry is simple and the device can be constructed to match a wide range of input and output impedances. The recently developed semiconductor indium antimonide, having an exceptionally high magnetoresistive coefficient, offers hope of obtaining useful power gain at room temperature. The basic theoretical concepts are presented and experimental results with bismuth and indium antimonide are given."
"The spike leakage signal from high-Q and band-pass tr tubes was recorded as a function of time by using high-speed oscillographic techniques. Transients as short as 0.5 millimicro-seconds (0.5  10-9seconds) were resolved. The variation of the 1B24 high-Q tr spike was determined as a function of time for several experimental parameters including the gas type and pressure, initial number of electrons in the tr gap, and peak incident power supplied by the transmitter. Oscillographic recordings show the tr spike leakage power from a commercial gas-filled 1B24 tr tube rises to a peak of 0.3w in a time interval of 6 msec. The spike leakage power from a 5863 three-gap band-pass tr tube rises to a peak of 3.6w in 7.5 msec. Threshold of microwave gas discharge breakdown measurements in helium gas are used to determine the electric field intensity in the 1B24 tr gap as a function of the waveguide power. From this, the electron motion during the spike interval is calculated. The results indicate that production of electrons in the gap can occur through ionization of the gas by the electrons' radio frequency energies, and by secondary emission at the gap surfaces, as well as through ionization of the gas by the electrons' energies of random motion."
"Equivalent networks were determined for a right angle transition between a coaxial line and a shielded helix. By employing a movable mercury short on the helix it was possible to determine these equivalent circuits through the use of well-known microwave measurement techniques. Utilizing the possible physical connection which might exist between the junction and its equivalent circuit, an attempt was made to measure quantitatively the effect of varying various parameters in the junction. For the limited number of cases studied, no simple connection between the elements of the equivalent circuit and the physical parameters of the junction was discovered. Although the results for the equivalent networks were very sensitive to small experimental errors, by using these networks it was possible to calculate reasonably accurate values of input impedence in the coaxial line for known impedance terminations on the helix."
"This paper discusses some of the factors which have to be taken into account in the evaluation of point contact diodes for computer work in view of the forward transients which may be present. Oscillograms of forward transients are shown and comparisons of various diodes and operating conditions made. Material is presented to acquaint the engineer with the forward transients attributed to the spreading resistance of point contact diodes, and illustrate why they should be considered by designers of high speed pulse circuits."
"The intrinsic-barrier design extends transistor frequency range without sacrificing power-handling capacity. A Germanium p-n-i-p transistor has been developed to serve as an oscillator in the neighborhood of 200 mc and to yield approximately 20 mw of useful output at the oscillation frequency. The structure of this developmental unit is described, and some performance and parameter distribution data are given for a group of 53 transistors which were selected on the basis of 0> 0.7 and estimated common-base f> 80 mc. The most efficient unit tested as an oscillator delivered 37 mw at 225 mc with an input power of 150 mw."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Following the application of a current pulse to a semiconductor diode, a transient voltage appears which is caused by deviations in carrier concentrations near the barrier. The high-frequency capabilities of a diode are intimately related to the decay time of this transient voltage, which is treated herein for a variety of experimental conditions. The open circuit voltage following a small amplitude impulse current was investigated with different values of fixed bias. The recovery time was observed to decrease with increasing forward bias, and the voltage was seen to decay exponentially with time given sufficiently forward bias. The effect of the duration of the injection upon the voltage decay was also investigated. It was noted that there was a rapid initial decay which was faster with shorter injection, and a final exponential decay which was insensitive to the duration of the current pulse; however, it was dependent upon the bulk lifetime of the material. The influence of the surface barrier itself upon the transient behavior was also investigated. In general the recovery time was found to be faster with decreasing injection ratio. The open-circuit voltage following a large amplitude current pulse was investigated using specimens with near unity injection ratios. The final voltage decreased linearly with time, the slope being determined by the bulk lifetime."
"The collector capacity, C, of a junction transistor is known to vary as a nonlinear function of the voltage, V, across it. A calculation is made of the collector current rise time of a grounded emitter alloy junction transistor for which C = kV-1/2. A comparison is then made with linear analyses in which C is assumed to have one of the following constant values. 1) C = Ccc, where Cccis the small signal capacity measured at the collector supply voltage, Vcc. 2) C = 1.52Ccc. This capacity is one which displaces the same charge as the nonlinear capacity as the voltage across it changes from 0-90 per cent of its final value. 3) C - 2Ccc. This capacity is one which displaces the same charge as the nonlinear capacity as the voltage across it changes from 0-100 per cent of its final value. The linear analysis using the latter two capacity values gives 0-90 per cent and 0-100 per cent rise times which are very close to those given by a numerical solution of the nonlinear circuit equation. The usual linear analysis using C = Ccc, on the other hand, is very much in error for predicting rise time. Experimental results show that the 2Cccvalue, in a linear analysis, predicts the 0-100 per cent rise time almost exactly. In addition, analog computer solutions of the nonlinear circuit equation give results almost identical with the shape of the experimental curves."
"The experimental breakup of a hollow electron beam focused by a longitudinal magnetic field into a discrete set of vortex filaments is described. Agreement with the theory of J. R. Pierce is satisfactory. The theory is extended to include the cases of Harris flow and hollow beams focused by a negative center conductor and a magnetic field. It is predicted that growing waves are possible in Harris flow beams. General considerations of energy and momentum conservation support the detailed analysis."
"This paper gives a linearized theory for the breakup of magnetically focused hollow beams of electrons. A zero-thickness developed beam is assumed. Growing waves are found to be possible both at zero frequency and at finite frequencies. When there are electrodes close to the beam inside and out, the waves grow more rapidly as the electrodes are moved further from the beam. If the current is increased and the magnetic field is increased just enough to keep the beam together, the rate of growth is increased. The theory predicts a greater rate of growth for a higher number n of cycles of variation around the circumference of the beam, but for actual beams of finite thickness the theory is inaccurate for large values of n. In a simple case, frequency becomes important only when the wavelength of waves along the beam becomes comparable with the wavelength measured around the circumference of the beam. Increasing waves are also found in a zero-thickness beam in crossed electric and magnetic fields, as in a magnetron amplifier or carcinotron, but not at zero frequency."
"Experiments performed on modified forms of the Chodorow-Chu contra-wound helix circuit are presented with emphasis on those properties useful in the design of high voltage, high power traveling-wave tubes. Velocity and impedance measurements are shown for a fair range of pitches, crossover angles, wire widths, and wire thicknesses. Impedances are compared with those of a circuit having ideal fields (and the same phase and group velocities) and are found to be very good. Loading effects of glass and metal cylinders (envelopes), current paths, a second mode, and transitions from helix to waveguide are described. It is shown that periodic supports (stubs), used to make the structure much more rugged mechanically and capable of large heat dissipation, also increase the (already high) impedance almost as much as they decrease the group velocity, implying that the stubs add but little stored energy."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"This paper deals with the development of a magnetron to generate multi-megawatt pulsed r.f. power. Specifically discussed are the design and operating characteristics of pulsed magnetrons which have been built and tested at 1310 mc/s in the voltage range of 50 to 75 kilovolts and have delivered power outputs of the order of 10 megawatts at 10 microseconds and 0.0017 duty. These tubes are the first pulsed magnetrons known to deliver this much power and, as far is known, have delivered higher pulsed power at this duty and pulse width than any other tube at any other frequency reported in the literature. There was little previous knowledge or experience available for guidance. Among the most important problems which had to be solved were: 1. Establishment of reliable criteria of -mode stability as guides for high power magnetron design; 2. Development of a wide bandwith r.f. window which would permit operation of the tube at full power in air at atmospheric pressure; 3. Development of a cathode capable of withstanding high back bombardment power with reasonable life; 4. Development of methods for fabricating a large magnetron; 5. Elimination of voltage breakdown in various parts of the magnetron; 6. Generation and measurement of 1 to 10 microsecond pulses at about 100 kilovolts and 400 amperes; 7. Development of a calorimetric load of thermal capacity for testing the magnetron at full power."
"This paper gives a brief discussion of the type \"O\" interdigital line backward wave oscillator theory. The new tube design problems which are encountered in this type of backward wave oscillator and some practical solutions of these problems which have made it possible to fabricate these tubes with modern production methods are described. A description is given of the laminated interdigital line, of the line termination and output transition. A new type of ceramic brazed unitized electron gun designed for these tubes is described. A description of the structure and electrical characteristics of a production S band tube having approximately an octave of voltage tuning will be given as an example of the above work."
"Two K-band backward-wave oscillators developed for the Evans Signal Laboratory will be described. The specified frequency range of the one oscillator is 17 to 27 KMC/sec, while that of the other is 26.5 to 41 KMC/sec. The circuit element employed in each case is a unifilar tape helix designed to operate over the desired frequency band within a voltage tuning range of approximately 500 to 2000 volts. The appropriate standard rectangular waveguide and flange is used for the RF output connector. The power output of the lower frequency tube ranges from about 20 to 100 milliwatts while for the higher frequency tube it varies from approximately 4 to 10 milliwatts. Constructional details will be described, including the type of attenuators employed and the nature of the helix to rectangular waveguide transition. Typical operating characteristics of each oscillator including tuning curves and power output curves will be presented."
"Packaged magnetrons, until a few years ago, had their weight reported in pounds. As the demand for miniaturization increased, however, it became desirable to incorporate ruggedness, tunability, and thermal stability into a magnetron weighing only a few ounces. This paper describes the development and achievement of such a tube: an X-band beacon magnetron, cylindrically shaped, which weighs less than six ounces. Particular attention will be paid to those phases of miniaturization which required revision of traditional design approaches."
"One of the inherent characteristics of the Voltage Tuned Magnetron is its capability of being electronically tuned over a wide range in frequency. It is informative to compare the VTM with M and O backward wave oscillators, which are also capable of wide electronic frequency tuning. The voltage-frequency characteristics, power-frequency characteristics, size, weight, and complexity, will be among the items compared."
"Design theory for a silicon diffused-base drift-intrinsic transistor of the tabbed type will be briefly reviewed. Experimental fabrication and problems will be described. A sealed quartz tube gaseous diffusion technique is utilized. Convenient mechanisms for obtaining the desired low vapor pressures are (1) introducing microquantities of solid impurities (2) utilizing the low vapor pressure of impurity elements in equilibrium with the molten liquid reservoir. Surface preparation is of extreme importance. Collector and emitter contacts may be simultaneously evaporated and alloyed in vacuo."
"This paper describes a method of fabricating drift-transistor structures by combining solid-phase diffusion with alloy-junction techniques. Design considerations pertaining to devices made in this manner are presented. The electrical characteristics of developmental drift transistors are related to their physical structure and data are given describing their performance as high-frequency amplifiers."
"A diffused-base germanium transistor has been developed to serve as a VHF oscillator. It is required to deliver more than 40 milliwatts at 200 mcps with an input power of 200 milliwatts. Cumulative distribution curves are given for the parameters and performance of a group of 112 units which meet these requirements, as well as for the universe of transistors from which they came. The median output power for the group is approximately 88 milliwatts, for an oscillator efficiency of 44 percent. Mechanical structure is also described; this structure enabled these transistors to pass a 20,000-g acceleration test."
"The transistor described here has been operated at 60 percent efficiency at 100 mc with sufficient input to provide 100 milliwatts of r-f power. A more useful and conservative operating point produces 40 milliwatts at 100 mc. These same transistors will typically give 18-db gain at 25 mc with 6-mc bandwith. Typical electrical characteristics are: Fmax-- 350 mc, rb1Cc= 90, a = 0.95, Vdc= 30V, and Vde= 4V."
"The design theory of the Depletion Layer Transistor, which was first announced at WESCON, 1956, is outlined in all its major phases. The schematic models on which the analysis is based are presented, and the fundamental equations, which describe the carrier transport through the proposed structures, are formulated. Among the results to be discussed are expressions for available gain and an analysis of the stability problem. The theory is extended to describe operation at frequencies equal to or exceeding the reciprocal transit time of carriers through the structure."
"Silicon p-n-p transistors have been made in which the base region was produced by diffusing a donor from the vapor phase and the emitter region by shallow alloying of aluminum. The processes of evaporation of gold-antimony and aluminum contact materials and their alloying are described. Design considerations for a transistor with alpha cutoff of 40 mc/sec will be discussed including collector transition capacitance, collector series body resistance, minority carrier lifetime and mobility in the base, and emitter injection efficiency. The performance of a number of laboratory units will be presented showing a range in alpha from .80 to .99, collector capacitance of 30 fd, and maximum alpha cutoff frequency of 50 mc/sec."
"Narrow base diodes have been made by diffusing impurities out of compensated n-type germanium. If compensated n-type germanium is heated in high vacuum, the n-type impurities having a much higher diffusion constant diffuse out of the germanium more rapidly than the p-type impurities. If the initial donor and acceptor densities are properly chosen for a compensated n-type wafer, out-diffusion will produce a graded p-type skin which serves as the narrow base of the diode. The grading in the base region is such that fast operation can be obtained without either decreasing the punch-thru voltage or increasing the junction capacitance. The built-in field in the base region opposes the flow of minority carriers. However, since extremely narrow base widths can be obtained through the outdiffusion process, high-frequency diodes can be easily fabricated. For computer applications the built-in field helps to clear the stored charge when the diode is switched from forward to reverse bias. The effect of this field on the switching characteristics of the diode will be discussed. The characteristics of this diode which make it attractive for computer applications in the one to ten Mcs range as well as other applications will be indicated."
"The need for test methods in contaminant studies and control of parts processing is reviewed, with major emphasis on tests which are simple, non-destructive and sensitive."
"The development of closures for electron devices often requires that leaks far below the range of the helium mass spectrometer type leak detector be localized and measured. It has been possible by using new techniques to extend the sensitivity of detection several orders of magnitude beyond the normal limit of the instrument. Two highly sensitive methods with similar techniques but separate sensitivity ranges are discussed. In seals similar to those of color television picture tube closures, it is noted that the kinetics of small leaks are such that long times are required to reach a constant maximum rate of helium leakage. Methods for predicting this maximum rate from early observations are discussed. Methods for establishing procedures necessary for sensitivity requirements for any particular seal type are given. Time and sensitivity limitations are discussed."
"In modern electron tubes thermionic activity, stability and life are correlated with freedom from contaminants. Consequently, there is great interest in removing contaminants from tube structures. Organic contaminants fall into two general groups: those which show preferred orientation of the monolayer in contact with a surface and those which do not exhibit this phenomenon. This paper discusses the origin of each type of contaminant and some ways in which they may influence electron tube behavior. The major emphasis is focused on the firmly bound contaminants. It is considered that removal of this type of material represents the ultimate practical stage of tube component preparation with respect to surface contaminants."
"A flat solid-state storage display panel has been designed for a variety of applications. Construction, which is of inorganic material, involves multiple feedback cells composed of cadmium sulfide coated glass pillars mounted on a flat electroluminescent panel. The final assembly can be subjected to high temperatures (650C). Present geometries with resolution of 16 lines to the inch are photo-reproduced by a method suitable for large displays. Triggering of individual cells has been accomplished with light pulses as short as 25 microseconds and with electron beams. In certain ranges of operating parameters an interesting variable-duration storage is observed. Stable operation has been maintained over a period of several months."
"The NRL electrical output charge storage tube differs from other types in that the reading time can be extended to hours or even days, yet the decay of the stored pattern is negligible. Electric charge storage with two stable equilibrium voltages makes this extended read time possible at a residual gas pressure as high as4 \\times 10^{-6}mm Hg. The capabilities of this device are illustrated by the fact that it has been used to capture a single frame of a television picture. The reproduced picture contained tones, four levels, at approximately 300 line resolution. The tube is constructed with two magnetically focused and deflected guns, one for writing and the other for reading. Therefore this tube is not well adapted to computer application because the registration between the guns is not exact. It can be used for scan conversion, for signal integration, for capturing single transients, and for temporary storage of patterns, for example, maps and math-function curves."
"An important aspect of electron tube fabrication is quality control over the component tube parts. An investigation of the electrical, physical and gas desorption-adsorption properties of mica has been conducted. The data show no general relations among these properties; the measurement of any one property is thus inadequate as a test procedure. Studies have been carried out on gas desorption by mica in order to determine which processing procedures degas the mica most thoroughly. Vacuum outgassing as a function of time and temperature and bakeout procedures were the main processing variables studied. It has been determined that micas used in electron tubes can be vacuum outgassed so as to reduce the gas potential to one-tenth that of micas treated in a more conventional manner. It has been found that well-outgassed micas show gettering characteristics. By gas adsorption techniques, a study of the gettering property of mica has been carried out using those gases usually present in electron tubes."
"This paper describes recent improvements in design and techniques which have lowered the noise figure of a developmental traveling-wave amplifier from 9 db to 6 db. Some selected tubes have had noise figures as low as 4.7 db. The improved tube is now commercially available as the RCA-6861 low-noise traveling wave tube. A general explanation of beam noise is presented and the presently employed noise-reducing schemes and theories are discussed in relation to the 6861. The specific factors contributing to the very low noise figures are evaluated, including low helix loss, low QC with high circuit impedance, maximum beam diameter with minimum intercepted current, a flexible low-noise gun, and, most important, a smooth and highly emissive dense oxide cathode operating at about 600C. Application considerations are also discussed, including phase sensitivity, life, saturation effects (modulation and harmonic generation), allowable voltage variations, and typical noise figure, gain, and match over the 2700-to-3500 Mc frequency range of the tube."
"A pulsed, kilowatt-level, S-band, traveling-wave tube amplifier is described which utilizes a periodic permanent magnet focusing system. A considerable saving in weight as well as the elimination of the magnet power supply is thereby achieved. The final packaged tube weighs less than ten pounds. A kilowatt level tube has previously been reported by Caldwell and Iversen. However, in order to incorporate periodic focusing into such a tube, an extensive redesign was necessary. A converging type electron gun is used; coupled helix transducers with a coupled-helix attenuator have been developed for use with the new focusing system. In addition to providing a compatible structure for use with a periodic focusing system, these changes have resulted in improved performance, particularly a wider bandwidth."
"The design of a pulsed traveling wave tube for use as a power driver for megawatt klystrons will be described. The tube will provide more than 5 kw of peak power output over a frequency range of 1.5:1 with 30 db gain in the Ultra High Frequency region. The ease in adapting the same construction to other frequency ranges will be described. An analysis of the beam focusing, r. f. coupling and attenuators used in this tube will be described including the procedures followed in order to eliminate spurious oscillations. The constructional details of the tube will be shown and the assembly techniques for small production quantities will be described."
"A set of design formulae has been derived which enables one readily to estimate the minimum amount of magnetic material which will satisfy a given set of field strength requirements on the axis of a tubular permanent magnet. Such a magnet is suitable for focusing the beam of a TWT with coaxial rf fittings if small holes are cast in the side of the magnet to admit the coaxial lines. The calculation is further expedited by the use of design. graphs, based upon the formulae, from which one can read off directly the required cross section area at the middle of the magnet. From this value one may calculate, using an empirical formula, the average cross section, and continue with a straightforward calculation to obtain the required volume and weight of magnetic material. A correction factor has been derived which enables one also to apply the results for the simple tubular magnet directly to the case of magnets specially shaped to fit around waveguide."
"The results of a life test on 29 TWT's all of the same type are reported. The life figures obtained range from 91 to over 19,000 hours with 9 of the tubes still operating. An explanation for this spread was found in the range of cathode temperatures required to give each tube the rated beam current under space change limited emission. The data obtained show a doubling of life for each reduction of 25C in cathode temperature. In all but one case, the failure was due to exhaustion of cathode material. The results indicate long life is achieved by high cathode activity level since this activity level determines how low an operating temperature can be used. To check the activity, a new method has been developed and is called \"dip-testing.\" While the tube remains under its normal operating condition, the heater power is interrupted for a given time interval. The cathode current undergoes a dip, this dip being a measure of the activity level. Additional accelerated life testing has shown early warning of failure is given by application of this method. Other applications will be mentioned since this activity test is of general use."
"The development objectives were to produce an S-band traveling-wave amplifier of appreciable continuous power, along with interchangeability of tubes. A simple tube structure was required for rugged mechanical properties and manufacturing ease, consistent with good performance characteristics. Among the features discussed are coaxial-helix couplers, a radiation-cooled helix, and a magnetic circuit arranged for near-Brillouin flow. A design procedure for the couplers is given. Included are methods of securing an impedance match and an empirical solution to problems caused by the effect of dielectrics on the characteristics."
"Two types of fast-response photodiodes have been prepared using a selective and controlled bath etching process. Both types are sensitive to visible and near infrared radiation (intrinsic photoconductivity). The first of these devices is in essence a flat fused p-n junction of from 2 to 30 microns base width. The germanium opposite the junction is the photosensitive window. Photodiodes of this type show good reproducibility and photosaturation characteristics. Response time for the thinner base devices is essentially limited by the detector load resistance and total circuit capacitance. Circuit rise and fall times of less than 0.05 sec have been attained. Sensitive window areas have ranged from1.13 \\times 10^{-3}cm2to2.26 \\times 10^{-2}cm2."
"The ferroeleetrie phenomenon is described and compared with ferromagnetic behavior. The crystal lattice structure of barium titanate is described, and the tetragonal phase accounts for the ferroelectric behavior. Terms to be used in describing ferroeleetric characteristics are defined. The method of growing barium titanate crystals in a potassium fluoride melt is described briefly. The fabrication of the crystal unit is described, including the mounting in a container similar to that used for transistors. A series of standard sizes of crystal units is proposed."
"Useful junction diodes in certain performance ranges may be fabricated from low grade silicon material by diffusion in non-critical environments. The devices thus made, whiIe not as versatile as those obtained when the most careful attention is given to purity of material and process, show promise of several fields of application in the lower voltage ranges. Representative diffusion processes are discussed, and results using several silicon material sources are considered."
"Non-ohmic semiconducting devices called varistors have been used in large numbers in telephone systems for many years. Recently, the development of a telephone set having improved electrical characteristics and suited to a lower manufacturing cost initiated a large-scale development program on the silicon carbide and oxidized thallium-copper varistors. The purposes of this development were to make varistors to new and closer electrical tolerances than had been heretofore specified and to obtain high yields and long-time stability at low cost. To meet these demands, raw materials were investigated, new process methods were evaluated, and statistically designed experiments were carried out to determine the effects of the many parametric relationships involved in their manufacture. At present, twenty million of these semiconductor devices are being produced annually for Bell System use. Approximately forty-five million are in service, some for as long as eight years, without any reported field failures."
"A new differential photocell utilizing lateral photo effect at a semiconductor junction is described. It can detect the position of a light spot to less than 100 A. Through an associated lens, one can measure an angular motion smaller than 0.1 second of arc. The output voltage of the cell is a linear function of the position of the light spot, with zero output for the light spot in the center, reversing in sign when the light spot changes from one side to the other of the center position. The linearity is better than 1.5 per cent over a distance of .030 inches. The equivalent noise resistance of the cell is equal to its output resistance, approximately 100 ohms. The sensitivity of the cell is approximately 200 microamperes per lumen and its frequency response is about the same as that of junction transistors. The response curve can be shifted electronically, constituting an electronic equivalent to a mechanical movement of the cell. Also, a square wave applied to the junction gives an electronic equivalent to a light chopper. Some applications are suggested."
"The introduction of variable resistors made from silicon carbide into the telephone set signaled the beginning of high volume low cost production of these devices by the Western Electric Company. Although these variable resistors, known as varistors in the Bell System, were introduced into telephone circuits in the early Thirties, their use in a volume regulating circuit of the new telephone set was the first high volume application in the Bell System. Today, two sizes of varistors used in this application account for more than 90 percent of our current annual production of 15 million silicon carbide varistors. It is the purpose of this talk to describe the manufacturing process and facilities used to produce these units at a low cost."
"If electroluminescent cells and photoconductor cells are placed in optical vicinity, the combination can be used as a power amplifier for electrical signals. Whereas in vacuum tubes control is exerted by an electric field, and in magnetic amplifiers by a magnetic field, this new amplifier type uses light as a control medium. Static power gains up to 40 db have been readily achieved, although the frequency response is, at present, not satisfactory for audio purposes. Means of feedback can be provided, which raise the power gain to any desired level, until bistability is reached. In this form, the device becomes a possible future computer component, which can be acted upon optically, electrically, or mechanically. The paper shows the construction of such components, some of their operating characteristics, and an approximate mathematical analysis."
"The basic properties of alkali vapor discharges are reviewed and exemplified for the case of rubidium vapor. The low arc drop exhibited by these discharges is their primary interesting feature. Arc drops as low as two volts with current densities up to one ampere per sq. cm. have been achieved. Behavior of pure alkali vapor discharges are highly temperature dependent. Experiments are described showing how the temperature dependence of the arc drop is substantially rduced by using an alkali vapor noble gas (Xenon) combination. The possibility of interruption of alkali vapor discharges by grid action is discussed in the light of the known theories pertaining to grid control of arc currents. On-off control of the arc current of a d-c rubidium vapor discharge has been achieved in an experimental thyratron. Interruption has been achieved in an experimental thyratron. Interruption of arcs of fairly high currents (250 milliamps/cm2and above) by a negative voltage as low as fifteen volts applied to the grid has been observed. The tube in which this behavior was observed is presented and experimental results are discussed."
"The tube to be described is a cold-cathode, gas-filled tetrode which triggers on extremely low signals. It was developed by the Raytheon Manufacturing Company in cooperation with the Diamond Ordnance Fuze Laboratories. Under pre-firing conditions, the tube passes a very small Townsend current of about 10-9amp. On application of a firing signal, current in the sensitive gap rises to about 10-8amperes, then breaks down into a glow discharge which transfers to the main gap in a few microseconds. After firing, conduction currents are limited only by resistance present in the external circuit, and under certain circumstances currents up to 6 amperes can be passed. Typical firing voltages are in the range of 5 to 10 volts for an applied signal of about 500 v/s. Input impedances of 107to 108ohms have been measured for the device."
"Ceramic tubes that are the electrical equivalent of the most advanced conventional receiving types, and are directly interchangeable with those types in existing equipments, are described. In particular, these tubes are able to operate under very high ambient temperature conditions (300C), are exceptionally rugged, and have very low microphonic noise output under extreme vibration and shock. Since the basic design of the ceramic stacked mount allows for higher performance and greater efficiency than is required for the glass equivalents, the tubes for this series have been modified so that they have characteristics suitable for direct substitution in existing circuits. The unmodified versions can, therefore, be used to advantage in designing equipments for new and more exacting applications."
"Metal and ceramic parts are sealed by introducing a molten solder or by inserting a thin sheet of metal that will form a reactive alloy. A wide choice of materials can be used, including many that seal at high temperatures with little metallic evaporation. Materials can be used that can be pre-degassed at temperatures considerably above those used for final sealing. The seals can be made in vacuum or in an inert gas. The seals can be stacked one on the other so that a multiplicity of them can be made at the same time. By using a metal such as titanium, and ceramic parts having an expansion characteristic similar to that of titanium, seals can be made that are strong and can operate for many hours at temperatures as high as 800C."
"The new techniques and applications of materials as described by J. E. Beggs in a preceding paper enable a high performance metal-ceramic tube to be designed with structural simplicity and ease of assembly. The utilization of these methods poses new tube design problems, not only those of an electrical nature but also mechanical configuration, parts fabrication, assembly, and processing techniques. A coplanar triode has been developed for grounded-grid r.f. amplifier service in the UHF TV band. It is constructed of alternate rings of ceramic and metal, sealed together through the use of a simple type of butt-seal. This construction is not only mechanically rugged, but the small size and the mechanical configuration provides low inductance connections between the active tube elements and the circuit proper. Although providing these obvious electrical advantages, the small size intensifies the problems of parts tolerances, assembly techniques, and thermal isolation. A discussion of these problems as resolved during the development of the 6BY4 is presented. The use of Beggs reactive metal seals is shown and the operating characteristics of the tube are reviewed."
"Secondary emission devices fall into two classes. (1) Those in which the emitter-collector potential is such that all emitted secondary electrons are received by the collector. (2) Those in which the emitter-collector potential is such that the number of collected secondary electrons equals the number of incident primary electrons. For either class of device this potential is determined by the nature of the secondary emitter, the electrode configuration, and the secondary-electron current density. For the first class the collector must always be positive with respect to the emitter. For the second class there are cases where this potential may be negative and others where it may be positive. This paper shows how Langmuir's treatment of thermionic emission in the plane diode can be applied to secondary emission to compute the emitter-collector potential for either class of device. This treatment accounts for space-charge and initial electron velocities. The effects predicted theoretically are supported by experimental measurements. Included are nomographs which simplify the computations involved in applying Langmuir's plane-diode equations to either thermionic or secondary emission."
"A microwave tube which gives a direct display of wide-band information on a cathode-ray tube screen is described. In this tube the amplitude modulated microwave signal is fed to a helix of a forward wave traveling wave amplifier. Some of this energy is transferred to the electron beam in such a way as it produces a velocity and current modulation of the beam. Where the collector of a normal traveling wave tube would be, a velocity sorting retarding field electrode system is substituted. This allows a discrete portion of the velocity distribution produced by the microwave energy to pass on to a fluorescent screen. In this manner the wide-band characteristic of the traveling wave tube is combined with a cathode ray tube in the same envelope such that the whole device then is a wide-band display tube. The brightness at the screen is a function of the microwave power input to the tube. The experimental transfer characteristic is shown and explained qualitatively in terms of the basic operating principles of the device."
"A detailed experimental investigation was made of the electron beams produced by a 2 P electron gun designed exactly according to Muller's charts, and of a similar gun whose design was modified to suit a particular high voltage pulsed klystron. The distribution of current density and profile of the beam were examined either by allowing the electrons to fall on a collector whose face was covered with carbon, or by measuring the current passing through a small pinhole in a screen which could be moved across the beam at a number of axial positions. Purely electrostatic tests showed that the beams were initially annular but eventually became densest near the axis. This is attributed to crossing trajectories, resulting from an anode aperture whose diameter is comparable with the cathode-anode spacing. With magnetic focussing, the current density distribution across the beam varied periodically along the axis to an extent which depended critically on the particular configuration of magnetic field in the accelerating region."
"The paper describes the design of a high power klystron amplifier which has several unusual features. These are unusually wide tuning range capabilities, exceptionally high beam efficiency, unique modulating capabilities for single-side band, high level modulation, and considerable flexibility in simultaneous bandwidth adjustment. The paper deals with the design aspects of the tube, some unusual fabrication techniques used in construction, discussions of a high efficiency cathode under continuous high voltage conditions, and test data under several conditions of operation. In addition there is some discussion of engineering problems associated with the application of this tube to a practical forward scatter communications system."
"Utilization of an encapsulated input window with an independent gas fill in a conventional type of broadband duplexer tube separates the interdependence of the high power characteristics. Recovery time and arc loss are determined predominantly by the input window design, whereas spike leakage energy and flat leakage power are determined by the tube body design. The two portions of the tube are designed independently for optimum performance. The effects of geometry, gas pressure, and nature of the gas on the behavior of the high power characteristics have been investigated. The factors determining adequate tube operation combined with reasonable tube life are discussed."
"The retarding-field oscillator is similar to the reflex klystron except that the repeller (the reflector of the reflex klystron) is an integral part of the resonant cavity and the rf power is coupled to the load in a different manner. The basic difference between the operation of the tubes lies in the fact that the regions for bunching, drifting, and working of the electron beam are not distinct in the retarding-field oscillator as they are in the reflex klystron. This paper concerns the partial development of two low-voltage designs of the Retarding-Field Oscillator. These two designs differ fundamentally in the method of coupling the rf power to the load. The X-Band model has coaxial-line coupling to a waveguide while the millimeter wavelength model has double cavity coupling to a waveguide."
"This paper describes methods by which the over-all efficiency of traveling-wave tubes can be increased through a considerable reduction in collector-element dissipation without appreciable deterioration of rf performance. Various methods are described which permit depression of collector potential considerably below the synchronous helix voltage. In these methods, suppression of secondary-electron emission is necessary to remove limitations imposed by the increased helix dissipation. The use of high-resistance coatings, a hollow suppressor electrode, magnetic shielding, and other devices for inhibiting secondary emission is discussed."
"Many applications of traveling-wave tubes make use of their inherent broadband properties and at the same time require a compact and light structure that will operate at high altitudes at a relatively high power level without arcing. A major problem in the design and construction of such a package is that of a broadband transition into and out of the slow wave structure. This paper describes some coaxial line to helix transitions employing stripline construction. These devices are fabricated from copper clad laminate using a photoetching process. The mashing elements are lighter than their coaxial equivalents. In general, a more complicated device can be fabricated utilizing stripline than is feasible to machine in coaxial form, thereby enabling the theoretical optimum to be more nearly approximated."
"In most germanium transistors, even those operating at high injection levels, surface and volume recombination losses may have a substantial effect on beta. It is of interest therefore, to determine how lifetime varies with injection level in order to estimate how much of the beta fall-off is due to increasing surface recombination. Uniform and known injection levels may be produced in small bars of germanium by illumination with unmodulated light. By the use of material having a bulk diffusion length large compared to the thickness of the bars, surface lifetime may be measured by super-imposing on the DC light a small modulated radiation. It is found that recombination is increasing at a considerable rate, even at the highest injection levels obtainable, which are comparable to the levels present in power transistors. The amount of beta fall-off observed in power transistors will be, therefore, influenced by the nature of the surface as well as by the emitter efficiency of the transistors."
"Experimental large area N-P-N power transistors having greatly improved performance at high currents will be discussed. In an alloyed construction collector-to-base current ratios as high as 1000 at 1 ampere have been obtained. Another construction utilizing diffusion and alloy techniques will also be described. The advantages of this transistor over the conventional alloy type, such as higher collector dissipation, flatter junctions and closer spacings between junctions will be discussed. This transistor has collector-to-base current ratios of several hundred at 1 ampere and collector breakdown voltages of 70 to 150 volts."
"This paper discusses the factors involved in the design of an alloy-junction power transistor. Attention is given to the problems of heat dissipation, sealing, collector cut-off current, voltage breakdown and current gain. The mechanical features which result in reproducibility, reliability, and low cost are illustrated. Tolerances and distribution of parameters are discussed and related to the design characteristics. A survey of the test procedure is given."
"A Bell System application requires a complementary pair of medium power, high speed switching transistors which, among other requirements, must show an alpha cut-off frequency of greater than four megacycles/second and electrical punch-through voltage of twenty-five volts minimum. Units have been designed and produced which exhibit median values of these parameters of seven megacycles/second and seventy volts, respectively. High yields have been achieved on established production lines by very close manufacturing controls of the critical alloying variables, namely: germanium wafer thickness, alloyed junction area, concentricity, mass of alloying material, alloying temperature, and special material properties such as orientation and etch-pit density. The precision gauging and jigging methods which were developed in conjunction with the Western Electric Company and results obtained will be presented."
"The density of injected current from the emitter of a junction transistor is never uniform over the emitter area because of the biasing effect of base current. In a normal three terminal transistor, the result is to decrease the effective emitter voltage at distances far away from the base contact. In a normal tetrode, the emission is squeezed towards one of the base contacts with a net decrease in the base resistance."
"The important characteristics of an NPN magnetic-core-driver transistor are D.C. amplification factor at high current, power dissipation rating, saturation voltage, breakdown voltage and transient response. The D.C. amplification at higher currents must be sufficiently high to give satisfactory power amplification. The power dissipation rating must be high enough to allow pulse operation with a high peak power required for core driver application. The saturation voltage must be low such that the dissipation in the \"on\" state is low. The breakdown voltage must be high enough to give sufficient voltage pulse swing, and the transient response must be fast enough to reproduce the pulse shape."
"Minority carrier storage in transistors has been treated by Ebers and Moll. In particular their results are convenient for estimation of storage delay in saturated transistors. The basic assumptions in their approach amount to use of the linear diffusion model of the transistor and to a rational approximation for the transcendental transport factor (approximatelya). The present paper shows that the same results can be arrived at from a lumping approximation of the diffusion process in the base region of the transistor. This approach makes possible some simple extensions applying to more complicated cases in addition to giving a novel view of the Ebers-Moll results. Here the key characteristic of behavior of the transistor used is linearity of the minority carrier density-current relationship. A five-element lumped model is used to duplicate the Ebers-Moll treatment. The element values are determined uniquely by the values fora_{N}, a_{I}, \\omega_{N}, \\omega_{I}, and Ico. After the equilibrium conditions are solved in terms of the variables minority carrier density and current, voltage is brought in as a variable through the relationship p = pn,  qV/KT."
"Silicon N+ IP+ diffused junction rectifiers have been made by the diffusion of boron and phosphorus into high resistivity material. Units have been fabricated with breakdown voltage over 2000 volts. The forward current is proportional to exp. (qv/nkt) with 1.2 -n-2 for currents up to 200 amps/cm2. The breakdown Voltage of N+ IP+ structure has been calculated from the avalanche theory of McKay and Wolff and is shown to be a function of the width of the I region. The reverse currents are in the order of 10-6amps/cm2at low bias and increase as the square root of the applied voltage. These relatively large reverse currents can be attributed to Shockley-Read generation in the space charge region."
"Experimental models of a sensitive miniature Vidicon pickup tube \" in diameter and 3\" long have been built and operated in prototype equipment. With such a small photolayer area, the use of a photoconductor having the sensitivity of conventional Vidicons would require an excessively fast lens or an increase in scene illumination. A new photoconductor has been developed which has sufficient operating sensitivity to more than offset the reduction in light collecting area. The spectral response of the new tube covers the approximate range from 400 to 800 millimicrons with its maximum in the neighborhood of 600 millimicrons. Resolution and picture lag are adequate for many applications where the small size is particularly attractive. The \" tube requires only one-fourth the heater power and one-third the deflection power of the 6198 Vidicon."
"In cathode ray tubes or other focused beam devices the smallest spot size is obtained by focusing on a plane between the gun and screen. The equations for the electron paths of a homocentric uniform density electron beam under the influence of space charge are differentiated with respect to initial radial velocity. The resultant transcendental equation is solved numerically. A universal curve for the smallest spot size at the target is obtained. At high beam currents this differs significantly from available curves for the beam cross section at the point of zero radial velocity."
"A new einzel lens has been developed to focus and \"microscan\" (or deflect by relatively small amounts) high voltage electron beams by means of low voltage deflecting electrodes. This development represents an important advance with respect to the presently known electron guns requiring auxiliary coils or high voltage deflecting electrodes for beam microscanning purposes. Widespread applications in the fields of high definition black and white compatible television, television scanning line structure suppression, etc. appear to be made possible by this device."
"A series of special cathode-ray tubes have been developed, ranging in size from ten to twenty-two inches and capable of two or three-color and long or short persistence presentation. Utilizing a single electron gun and post deflection focusing (PDF) and acceleration, together with a highly transmissive grid, they have no convergence or misregistration problems. Existing radar type circuitry is readily adaptable to these types of display which also offer greatly increased versatility for new designs. Mechanical design considerations discussed include the vacuum envelope, grid wires and their supporting member, together with a wire damping means, and phosphor deposition schemes for both sandwich and phosphor-on-face designs. In addition, the technique is described of utilizing the electron beam to generate the printing master from which accurate and interchangeable phosphor printing can be accomplished. A discussion of the operational characteristics includes typical voltages for operation, colors and persistencies of phosphors available, electron gun possibilities, and special multi-grid developments. A variety of possible applications are described, utilizing both the multi-color and the multi-persistence capabilities of the tube and several actual applications are covered in some detail. Finally, the trend of current research and possibilities in future designs are discussed."
"One type of color tube, often referred to as the post acceleration color tube, requires a gun of unique design. The gun operates at relatively low voltages of 5,000 to 7,000 volts as compared with 20,000 to 30,000 volts in other types of color tubes. The tri-color gun assembly described consists of three individual guns arranged in a plane. This limits the inside diameter of the electrodes to 0.358 inches as compared with half an inch or more in conventional guns. The individual guns are either triodes or tetrodes with periodic focusing. In spite of the above mentioned restrictions the spot size is about 0.398 inches at 300 microamperes screen current per gun and 7,000 volts anode voltage. The depth of focus is very satisfactory because of small beam diameter. As a further step in this development, high voltage high resolution guns with half inch diameter electrodes were built using the same multi-focusing lens principle."
"When the electron beam of a cathode-ray tube strikes the ends of a linear array of parallel wires passing through the faceplate, the wires begin to charge toward cathode potential. If a sheet of dielectric material backed by a ground plane is placed close to the other ends of the wires, a discharge will take place when a given wire has reached a critical value of voltage. The resulting spot of charge on the dielectric can be made visible by application of charged powder. If the beam is scanned along the array of wires, an appropriate signal put on the grid of the electron gun and the dielectric pulled past the wire array, the tube can be used to print letters or reproduce line drawings with great, rapidity."
"The development of a new electronic numerical indicator by the Burroughs Research Center and the Electronic Tube Division of Burroughs is described. The new numerical indicator, \"Nixie,\" is a 10-digit gas indicator tube which provides an essentially two-dimensional in-line numerical readout with a wide angle viewing characteristic. The tube is approximately 1\" in height and diameter, mounted on a 13 pin stem. The numerical assembly comprises ten \"cathodes\" configurated to represent the ten basic digits with a common anode. The cathodes may be selectively energized. The resultant gas discharge will make only the selected number distinctly visible to the observer."
"Contains various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings of the 1956 IRE National Convention."
"Contains various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Radio coordinated traffic light control permits the elimination of the conventional multiconductor cable which must tie together all traffic lights in a system. A VHF carrier modulated with audio-frequency control tones permits the radio coordinated system to perform the same as with the use of a cable plus the possibility of gaining additional benefits. All conventional traffic light control equipment may be used without modification. Several systems have been installed with complete success, gaining advantages in cost and flexibility. It may be expected that this form of control will grow rapidly within the next few years."
"Public benefit of the use of mobile radio in industrial forest work is great. Each year many lives of workmen and visiting public are saved, and huge property damage averted through improved communications by radio. Industrial Tree Farming programs are accelerated and made practical by mobile radio. These programs will provide wood resources and water reserves to be enjoyed as public benefits for many future generations. Most timbered areas have no roads or public communications and are frequently in mountainous regions. Mobile radio easily adapted to the circumstances proves to be the only adequate means of communication to administer, protect, and harvest timber crop3. Modern machines used in forest work are widely scattered on each logging job but radio coordinates their efforts. It might be compared with military use of radio to coordinate the fire power of many mobile units on a single target. Forest Products Radio Service may be small in total radio units, but in effective public use per mobile unit this service has established outstanding national record. Mobile Radio is certainly an indispensable tool of Industrial Forests."
"Modern trends in uhf communication systems indicate an ever increasing use of greater numbers of channels, higher transmitter powers, and decreased antenna spacing. This all adds up to an ever increasing number of systems interference problems. In most instances, a system can be rendered \"interference free\" by adding sufficient selectivity between the receiver or transmitter and its antenna. This added selectivity can be acquired by the use of a new low-loss tunable filter employing two high-Q, aperture coupled, resonant cavities in tandem. The physical construction of these equipments, as well as operating characteristics, will be discussed in this paper."
"Mobile measurements of VHF propagation over various irregular terrain paths have been made by the National Bureau of Standards in the Colorado Rocky Mountain region in an effort to evaluate terrain effects upon broadcast and point-to-point communications at very high frequencies. Mobile measurements of the varying path transmission loss were obtained in a continuous manner while driving along selected routes with a mobile field strength recording unit, which consists of a modified house trailer equipped with a telescoping mast and pulled by a pick-up truck. The paths used ranged from relatively smooth to very rough. The results of the measurements are considered in the light of current irregular terrain theory. The correlation of Sector median transmission loss for different frequencies over irregular terrain tends to be high when the paths are nearly the same, becoming significantly less when the paths diverge. This would indicate that the frequency selectivity of an irregular terrain path is small."
"This paper describes a high frequency two way communication equipment designed for vehicular mounting. A high degree of frequency accuracy and stability along with simplified semi-automatic transmitter tuning is featured. In addition to voice and code transmission and reception capability, facilities for frequency shift keying and teletype operation without the need of additional conversion equipment or power supplies are provided. A telephone and ringer circuit operating over the two wire remote control line is incorporated. Photographs and block diagrams of the various units are shown."
"The distance from a base station over which a mobile radio may operate is usually limited to near the optical horizon, particularly with frequencies of 150 mc and higher. When it is desired to extend the mobile range beyond this distance remotely controlled base stations involving either telephone lines or microwave relay systems are used quite successfully. However, these systems are expensive, particularly where the cost of the microwave system or telephone line cannot be shared by other functions such as additional telephone channels or telemetering and control channels. By the Judicious use of mountain tops, where available, and the use of unattended automatic repeater (relay) stations, it is possible to extend mobile range from a base station to several times that which is obtained with a single base station without incurring the expense or complexity involved in a microwave relay system. This paper will describe some of the methods which have been used by the Bureau of Reclamation to provide this type of long distance base to mobile coverage. The operations of the Bureau of Reclamation differ somewhat from the average public utility in that the transmission of power or water is on a wholesale basis with very little retail or distribution type operation. Rather than involving a small amount of high voltage transmission with a great deal of complicated distribution which requires a large number of mobile units in a relatively small area, as is the case with most power utilities, the Bureau's power transmission systems involve very long high voltage power lines with few operational centers or base stations and relatively few mobile units, but these mobile units are required to operate over the much greater distances involved. Similarly, the Bureau's large irrigation systems involve transportation of water over hundreds of miles. This also requires a system with relatively few mobile stations but with a requirement that these stations operate over rather long distances. For these reasons it has been necessary to provide unattended vhf repeaters to extend mobile coverage from the operating centers to the ends of the power or water transmission systems. Since most of the Bureau of Reclamation operations are carried on in the sparsely settled areas of the 17 western states, there is often a lack of commercial telephone facilities which could otherwise be used to interconnect operating centers and provide channels to extend radio coverage. Three general types of repeater systems are used. (1) The low band-high band system which utilizes mobiles operating in the low vhf band (approximately 30 mc) with relay links in the high vhf band (approximately 160 mc). (2) The high bead system with wide frequency spacing. (3) The bigh band system with close frequency spacing. One of each will be described."
"The purpose of this project was to use silicon transistors in place of vacuum tubes in all sections following the mixer stage of a military type communication receiver. The hybrid receiver built, while keeping the desirable characteristics of the vacuum tube receiver also provided for an increase of audio power and a reduction of battery power drain."
"A simplified transmitter employs a magnetic reactor-modulator and a frequency tripling power stage. The receiver's sensitivity is twice the accepted value of 1 microvolt. This is made possible by the use of a planar-grid triode input stage."
"The introduction of power Junction transistors as switch devices has opened new horizons to mobile power supply design. The use of these devices in conventional circuits presently offers equipment capable, within the temperature limits of the transistors, of outperforming present Vibrator Supplies at low power levels. As power transistors are improved wide application of this principle of D.C. to D.C. conversion is inevitable."
"A re-evaluation of vehicular communications in the light of narrowing bandpass restriction points to Amplitude Modulation equipment. AM equipment provides full intelligence, a favorable signal to noise ratio and excellent squelch action with only a 6 KC bandwidth. It also retains extreme sensitivity and frequency stability. All this is packaged in a compact but easily accessible unit for convenience in servicing. There are excellent systems in existence, using this type of modern AM equipment which attest to the effectiveness of present day AM communications."
"The purpose of this paper is to give a general description of the VHF Maritime Mobile facilities of the North-west Telephone Company, who provide this type of service to vessels operating in British Columbia Coastal waters. The present four-channel system, which has been in operation since 1948, will be described. A proposed six-channel system, based on assignments in the 152 to 162 mc/s band in accordance with the 1952 International Agreement, will be outlined."
"A brief history of the development and growth of petroleum industry use of radio is given and general applications of mobile radio described. A number of the more pressing and immediate problems common to most mobile services are outlined and several steps toward possible solutions suggested."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Radio coordinated traffic light control permits the elimination of the conventional multiconductor cable which must tie together all traffic lights in a system. A VHF carrier modulated with audio-frequency control tones permits the radio coordinated system to perform the same as with the use of a cable plus the possibility of gaining additional benefits. All conventional traffic light control equipment may be used without modification. Several systems have been installed with complete success, gaining advantages in cost and flexibility. It may be expected that this form of control will grow rapidly within the next few years."
"The application of crystal oscillators to communications receivers is considered and the problems encountered are enumerated and separately analyzed. In regard to crystal oscillator operation, two typical circuits are cited for illustration and are analyzed in regard to the type of feedback used to produce oscillation. The analysis concludes that for maximum oscillator reliability in obtaining the inherent stability a crystal is capable of; regenerative feed-back which is present irrespective of the crystal impedance should be avoided and that these effects are largely determined by the type of crystal oscillator circuit used in a particular application. Over the temperature range normally encountered in communication receiver applications the reversals in the frequency vs. temperature characteristics for a typical close tolerance un-heated crystal is shown in Fig. #1. This data shows that for this type of crystal the total drift for temperature extremes is less rather than maximum due to the curvature of the frequency vs. temperature characteristic. Typical spurious responses of crystals normally used for oscillator purposes are also shown and the possibility of operation on spurious of the crystal is considered from a circuit viewpoint. Preferred methods for crystal oscillator injection and frequency trim are also discussed."
"Modern trends in uhf communication systems indicate an ever increasing use of greater numbers of channels, higher transmitter powers, and decreased antenna spacing. This all adds up to an ever increasing number of systems interference problems. In most instances, a system can be rendered \"interference free\" by adding sufficient selectivity between the receiver or transmitter and its antenna. This added selectivity can be acquired by the use of a new low-loss tunable filter employing two high-Q, aperture coupled, resonant cavities in tandem. The physical construction of these equipments, as well as operating characteristics, will be discussed in this paper."
"This paper describes tests conducted in the North River tunnel of the Pennsylvania Railroad to determine a practical means for communicating with moving locomotives and trains in tunnels. It is shown that frequencies between about 25 and 1500 megacycles per second are not suitable for such communication over any substantial distance when employing conventional radio techniques. Tests are described utilizing other means of transmission, including the use of a series of antennas bridged onto a transmission line extending through the tunnel, and a closely-spaced two-wire line without antennas acting as a radiating and pick-up device. It is concluded that satisfactory transmission in tunnels can be obtained for a distance up to approximately 6,000 feet using the frequencies and equipment ordinarily employed in railroad mobile systems and twin-lead cable such as RG-86/U suitably located within the tunnel."
"This paper describes a high frequency two way communication equipment designed for vehicular mounting. A high degree of frequency accuracy and stability along with simplified semi-automatic transmitter tuning is featured. In addition to voice and code transmission and reception capability, facilities for frequency shift keying and teletype operation without the need of additional conversion equipment or power supplies are provided. A telephone and ringer circuit operating over the two wire remote control line is incorporated. Photographs and block diagrams of the various units are shown."
"The purpose of this project was to use silicon transistors in place of vacuum tubes in all sections following the mixer stage of a military type communication receiver. The hybrid receiver built, while keeping the desirable characteristics of the vacuum tube receiver also provided for an increase of audio power and a reduction of battery power drain."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"A comprehensive listing of the authors, articles and departments included in 1956. Numbers refer to chronological list. Light-face type indicates papers, bold-face type indicates discussions, anid italics refer to books and book reviews."
"The index contains an entry for all items that appeared during the year."
"Numbers refer to chronological list."
"This index covers all nontechnical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Within the last ten years, due to the advent of ferrites important new possibilities in inductor design have materialized. Higher Q's, smaller sizes, and lower costs are among the advantages these new magnetic materials offer. This paper discusses the properties of ferrites and reviews the progress that has been made thus far in their application to inductors."
"A general discussion of a torsional type mechanical filter and its termination by mechanical and electrical means is followed by a detailed description of two 100-kc filters, one 50 cycles wide and the other 3.1 kc wide. The design, fabrication, and frequency adjustment of one-piece multiple section filters is described. Frequency stability better than 2 parts per million per degree centigrade is obtained with filters constructed of the metal alloy Ni-Span-C. Magnetostrictive ferrite and Ni-Span-C transducers resonant in the longitudinal mode of vibration are attached tangentially to the end resonators of the torsion filter. The filter is terminated by converting the electrical resistance in low-Q input and output circuits to mechanical damping. Responses due to spurious modes of vibration in the filter are reduced by the use of a pair of transducers in a balanced arrangement at each end of the filter, and by mechanical damping in the end supports."
"This paper describes a new microwave relaying system using traveling-wave tubes (TWT), and utilizing its large inherent frequency bandwidth. In this system, the increased gain is obtained by amplifying the input signal through the TWT Amplifier, and reamplifying it in the same TWTA after heterodyning the frequency to the second frequency. The signal received could be amplified in the same TWTA more than once simultaneously, and the gain of the TWTA would be increased in proportion to the amplifying times. A 4,000-mc band television repeater using three TWT's, and its measured results are also described; we obtain the results that the over-all gain is above 100 db and is steady within 0.5 db with the frequency bandwidth of 20 mc, and also, the noise figure is below 15 db. The actual test was carried out by putting the equipment in the TV long-distance relay line as a repeater. From this test it was proved that there is no defect of the operation of the amplifier in using TWT as a reflex amplifier. In this new system, the number of TWT's can be reduced one-half to one-third and the cost of a repeater with increased reliability can be lowered."
"This paper introduces the principles and techniques of underground water prospection in the desert by means of electromagnetic interference fringes. Part I formulates the ''Variable Frequency Interference Method\" while Part II deals with the ''Variable Distance Interference Method.\" Samples of interference patterns obtained at two places in the Egyptian deserts are shown. The water table at one of these places is known from actual boring. Interpretation of the interference patterns and the proposed method of calculation of the water table depend upon a knowledge of the average dielectric constant of the propagational medium together with a single interference pattern determined by either of the methods in Part I or Part II. A good degree of agreement existed between the derived results and the actual water table."
"The theory of the design of optimal cascaded transformer arrangements can be extended to the design of continuous transmission-line tapers. Convenient relationships have been obtained from which the characteristic impedance contour for an optimal transmission-line taper can be found. The performance of the Dolph-Tchebycheff transmission-line taper treated here is optimum in the sense that it has minim reflection coefficient magnitude in the pass band for a specified length of taper, and, likewise, for a specified maximum magnitude reflection coefficient in the pass band, the Dolph-Tchebycheff taper has minimum length. A sample design has been carried out for the purposes of illustration, and its performance has been compared with that of other tapers. In addition, a table of values of a transcendental function used in the design of these tapers is given."
"A precision resonance method for measuring the dielectric properties of low loss solid materials has been developed in our laboratory. The dielectric sample to be measured is shaped into a cylindrical disk and inserted into a cylindrical cavity resonator oscillating in the T10y mode.  can be measured from the difference between the axial lengths of the cavity tuned to the same frequency with and without the sample, and tan  can be found from the difference between the Q's of the cavity with and without the sample. By making use of a special marker of a resonance point on an oscilloscope, the measurements accuracy can be improved to yield only 1 per cent error in  and 3 per cent error in tan  for various low-loss samples. Such materials as polystyrol, polyethylene, teflon, and glass for high-frequency use were tested at 4,000 mc, 9,000 mc and 24,000 mc."
"Several transistor pulse-regenerative amplifier circuits suitable for use in a 3 megacycle digital computer are described. These circuits all utilize a type of feedback which is essentially external to the transistor. As a consequence, a negative resistance transistor characteristic is not required. Some of these circuits were designed specifically to be relatively tolerant of the slow recovery of reverse impedance found in many germanium diodes."
"A developmental, 100-watt, S-band traveling-wave amplifier utilizing ceramic \"periodic\" permanent magnets to focus the electron beam is described. The minimum peak power output of the tube is 100 watts at a gain of at least 20 db at frequencies from 2,000 to 3,800 magacycles per second. At lower power levels, a gain of 36 db has been measured in the center of the frequency band. The operating voltages for the amplifier are below 4,000 volts. The use of ''periodic\" magnets in place of conventional solenoids or permanent magnets producing uniform magnetic fields effects a considerable reduction in the weight and size of the focusing system. Constructional features of the tube which permit operation with the ''periodic'' magnet are discussed. The rf characteristics of this amplifier are evaluated, and the complete \"package\" assembly is described."
"This paper describes spurious modulation effects commonly observed in electron tubes employing high current electron beams. The modulation is caused by positive ions and secondary electrons moving in the beam. It is eliminated by pumping the tube to high vacuum and retarding or deflecting the secondary electrons."
"The negative resistance regions in the active portion of the point-contact collector characteristics are characterized in terms of three unique types of anomalies in the current multiplication properties of the device. While the interaction of the  anomalies and the associated circuitry result in a measuring circuit instability, the negative resistances are true device properties which are attributable to variations in the collection efficiency of the reverse biased collector junction."
"This paper presents a method of analyzing transistor behavior for any base-layer impurity distribution. In particular, expressions are derived for emitter efficiency , transverse sheet resistance R, transit time t, and frequency cut-off f. The parameters  and R are functions only of the total number of impurities in the base layer. The analysis is used to derive , R, t and f for four different distributions-uniform, linear, exponential, and complementary error function. For each of these distributions a transistor base-layer design equivalent in R and f is obtained. Comparison shows that for equivalent parameters the nonuniform distributions permit the use of wider base layers, but require greater maximum impurity concentrations and must be operated at high current densi"
"Traveling-wave tubes are described in which the wave-propagating structure constitutes a smooth, balanced transmission line for radio frequency signals while at the same time providing a space-periodic focusing field at zero frequency. Experimental structures for the 500-900 mc band have wave velocities of 1 to 2 per cent of light and characteristic impedances of about 500 ohms. A simplified theoretical analysis is given, based on the readily visualized concept of transverse electron waves in a focusing field. In order to get gain, the electron stream must travel faster than the circuit wave by a substantial margin which is determined by the strength of the focusing field. The gain is proportional to the square root of the beam current. Experimental data are presented concerning the relation between focusing field and effective beam velocity, and between beam current and gain. They are in good agreement with the theory. Noise figures as low as 6 db have been measured."
"A simplified method for obtaining the response of linear and nonlinear systems, without knowledge of the roots of the system characteristic equation, is described. The solutions are given as time series representing the values of the response at equally spaced instants of time. Initial conditions are introduced easily through the use of the Laplace transform. It is shown that the Laplace transform of a linear system may be approximated by a z-transform, allowing the time series to be obtained by synthetic division. Two examples for linear constant coefficient systems are worked out including the solution of a third-order system and a firstorder differential equation. The results are compared with the exact solutions obtained by analytic means. The same methods are then extended to the solution of timevarying, nonlinear, and time-lag systems. An example of each type is worked out in detail to illustrate the wide applicability of the technique. A discussion of error considerations is included."
"One of the limitations imposed upon a conventional frequency multiplier using a double-cavity klystron is the restriction of rf output caused by the mutual repulsion of electrons. To overcome this difficulty a multibeam velocity-type frequency multiplier was proposed by the author, and theoretical and experimental investigations were made. Another type of multibeam frequency multiplier has been proposed by R. Kompfner, but as far as the author is aware, this tube has not yet been fully examined experimentally nor theoretically because of the complexity of the physical structure. Experiments made on a tentative model of the proposed frequency multiplier with two electron beams disclosed that much higher output power compared with conventional klystron multipliers could be derived. It is believed that the new tube is promising in providing a novel means of generating microwave signals of multiplied frequencies."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"A review of the properties, applications, and engineering significance of ferrites below microwave frequencies is presented. The survey includes a discussion of the nature of ferrites, their magnetic and electrical properties, the use of the Q product as a design index of efficiency, core losses, and the effects of air gaps. This is followed by a discussion of the use of ferrites in a wide variety of applications. A Bibliography is also included."
"The presentation is centered around the four important forms of magnetic energyin ferromagnetic media: (I) the Zeeman energy of the elementary magnets in the applied magnetic field, (II) the classical electromagnetic interaction between dipoles, (III) the Heisenberg exchange energy, and (IV) the energy of anisotropy which is pseudodipolar or pseudoquadrupolar in structure but is attributable ultimately to rather recondite quantum-mechanical spin-orbit interaction. The primary cause of ferromagnetism is (III), and anisotropy arises from (IV). Domain structure and the concomitant hysteresis phenomena owe their existence to (II). The magnetic theory of the ferrites is in many ways simpler and less ambiguous than that for conducting ferromagnetic media, as there are no complications due to electron migrations. Nel's theory of ferrimagnetism explains the saturation magnetization and other properties of the ferrites."
"Ferromagnetic resonance in ferrites is reviewed. The concept of tensor permeability, the influence of magnetic anisotropy, demagnetizing fields, and damping mechanisms are discussed. Special consideration is given to coupled magnetic systems and the behavior in ferrites with compensation points. The general theoretical results are compared with a few illustrative examples. The behavior in polycrystalline material, g-value, line width, and anisotropy as a function of temperature and external magnetic field are outlined."
"Above a certain microwave signal level, ferrites show various kinds of anomalies in their power absorption. The conditions under which these anomalies are observed are shown to coincide with the conditions under which certain \"spin wave\" disturbances in the medium grow to abnormally high levels. This growth is caused by the coupling of the spin waves to the uniform precession through the demagnetizing and exchange fields that accompany the disturbances. In the first part of the paper it is shown that the coupling causes certain spin wave amplitudes to \"run away\" exponentially with time when the signal field exceeds a threshold value. This will happen most readily exactly at resonance and under suitable conditions in a range of dc biasing fields confined to the low side of resonance. In the second part, the steady state of the magnetization beyond the threshold signal is evaluated for one type of anomalous absorption. It is found that the uniform precession \"saturates\" at a value corresponding to the threshold signal, and that further increases in applied power are diverted into a narrow range of spin waves. The susceptibilities are computed in the new state. Agreement with experiment is found to be good throughout. Since the paper is intended to be tutorial in character, the analysis is kept to a minimum. The full analysis will be the subject of a later publication."
"The ferromagnetic resonance relations in magnetically anisotropic single crystal ferrites are reexamined. Detailed analyses are presented for spherical specimens. Generalized nomograms are shown which relate the resonance frequency to static field H, anisotropy parameter K/M, and the static field orientation. The nature of the susceptibility tensor is discussed. Below magnetic saturation, multidomain structure is expected. Under these conditions, with H applied in a [110] direction, a simple multidomain arrangement is suggested by crystal geometry. Ferromagnetic resonance can be used to investigate this structure. The analysis is similar to that employed by Smit and Beljers who investigated like effects in uniaxial crystals. The domains are lamellar in form, separated by 180 walls, and lie perpendicular to H. Corresponding to the two nearby easy directions of magnetization, the domains are of two varieties which alternate in sequence. Two resonance frequencies are found for a given H, depending on whether the microwave magnetic field is perpendicular or parallel to H. Nomograms are given relating these resonance frequencies to H, K/M, and saturation magnetization M. The nature of the magnetization curve for these simple structures is also discussed. The predictions of these analyses are compared with the results of recent experiments."
"The dielectric properties of ferrites are dependent upon their methods of preparation. Low resistivity ferrites in which the individual grains are separated by air gaps or are coated with films that have high resistivities behave as inhomogeneous dielectric materials. Such low resistivity grains covered by high resistivity films are formed upon cooling slightly reduced ceramic ferrites in an oxygen containing atmosphere. Apparent low-frequency dielectric constants as high as 105 are found as a consequence of this. Ferrites with dc resistivities of 109  cm or higher, in general, have dielectric losses which are low enough to meet the requirements of microwave applications. Resistivities of this order can be obtained in modified magnesium and nickel ferrites. The effects on conduction of varying composition and temperature are discussed in some detail."
"Conventional ceramic methods for pure oxide materials can generally be applied to the processing of ferrites. Specialized techniques such as coprecipitation and hydrostatic pressing are sometimes employed. A process involving nonaqueous milling and forming additives provides dense shapes. The general formula for ferrites is MOFe2O3 (M is a divalent metallic cation). X-ray diffraction may be used to conduct unit cell and phase relation studies. Metallurgical micrographic techniques are useful in investigating grain and pore structure. A study of the solid state reaction kinetics of an equimolar mixture of MgO and Fe2O3 at elevated temperatures showed that the reaction was expressed by the diffusion equation (1- 31-.01x)2 = K where x is the percentage of reaction at time t, and Kis a constant."
"A discussion is given of the transformation relations between the measured permeability components and the values intrinsic to the material which then do not involve the sample shape. General theoretical curves are given showing the measured permeabilities  + K through resonance for rods and spheres deduced from the intrinsic permeability curves, +K, which is taken to have a Landau-Lifshitz shape. Complete data are given on the four measured and intrinsic tensor permeability components through magnetic resonance for small rods, spheres, and disks of a polycrystalline magnesium-manganese ferrite. The general shape of the intrinsic curves is explained by considering the distribution of the crystallite orientation directions and the solid angles associated with these directions. The line width is of the order of magnitude to be expected by published data on other ferrite single crystals."
"Measurements of the components of the microwave permeability tensor of ferrites are usually made on very small specimens, such as spheres, discs, or rods, placed in cavities. Using degenerate modes, one can relate the frequency shifts of these modes to the real parts, and the changes in Q to the imaginary parts, of the tensor components. The technique herein described makes use of measurements performed on a ferrite rod placed along the axis of a circular waveguide. Exciting the specimen successively with the two senses of circular polarization, one obtains phase and attenuation information for each of these modes which can then be related by a perturbation treatment back to the real and imaginary parts, respectively, of the tensor components. The variation of phase and attenuation are recorded continuously (but on successive runs) as functions of the changing applied magnetic field. The apparatus used for these purposes will be described and certain novel features pointed out. While this method lacks the advantage of cavity techniques to separate out the dielectric contributions to the phase and attenuation shifts, it does offer a means whereby a fairly large specimen can be examined for its basic parameters in a geometrical configuration often used in applications."
"The low power level transmission loss at room temperature and at 8.2, 8.9, and 10.1 kmc of thin (nominally 0.010-inch thick) ferrite slabs placed approximately in the plane of circular polarization in rectangular waveguide (0.9 0.4 inch id) was measured as a function of applied transverse dc magnetic field. Ferramic A,B,C,D,E,G,H,H-1,I,J,N,O-1,Q,R-1,R-2,R-3, and Ferroxcube 101, 102, 103, 104, 105, 106 were measured, although graphical data are presented here only for some typical cases. The absence of resonance loss in the permanent magnet ferrite material Indox in this frequency range and for internal fields up to 5 kilo-oersteds is noted. Results of measurements on some thicker ferrite slabs and other transverse locations are also presented. The effect of temperature on the loss characteristics of Ferramic G, R-1, and Ferroxcube 104 is shown. Thin-Slab theory is used to compute the effective saturation magnetization, 4M8, and damping parameter, , (both defined in the text) of the measured ferrites at room temperature, and these results are presented in tabular form. For the different ferrites it is found that 2.6 kilogauss <4M8 <6.6 kilogauss, and 0.02< <0.3, for internal dc magnetic fields in the range from about 1 to 2 kilo-oersteds."
"The anisotropy of cobalt-substituted Mn Ferrite single crystals has been measured by the usual microwave techniques. Both composition and temperature have been varied, with particular emphasis being placed on achieving zero or minimum anisotropy."
"This paper gives an elementary but nevertheless quite complete introduction to the basic theory of nonreciprocal microwave devices. The concept of reciprocity, itself, is introduced and some of the consequences which result when one violates reciprocity are pointed out. The basic theory of microwave ferrite devices is developed from a classical theory which gives one a strong intuitive feeling for extrapolating the theory to devices not discussed in the paper. The analysis is extended to include basic design criterion for the three general types of microwave ferrite devices which exist today. The operation of these devices are compared and advantages and disadvantages of the various devices are pointed out for the benefit of the component engineer."
"The four major microwave ferrite devices, ie., the Faraday rotator, the resonance isolator, the nonreciprocal phase shifter, and the field displacement devices are discussed in terms of their loss properties over a range of frequencies. By means of perturbation theory the figure of merit of these devices is derived in the idealized limits for various ferrite geometries. These limiting values are analyzed in terms of the experimental results of the resonance loss for polycrystalline and single crystal measurements and compared with existing data on practical devices. The analysis indicates a possible low-frequency limit of Faraday and nonreciprocal phase shift circulators at about 1000 mc. The low-frequency limit of the resonance isolator is estimated at about 200 mc with a reverse-to-forward ratio of about 10. The problem of broad banding is also discussed in terms of the perturbation results."
"This paper is intended to be tutorial in nature and its purpose is the description of the effects of magnetically saturated ferrites in microwave structures from the more general approach of microwave circuit theory. This is done via the scattering matrix rather than the impedance matrix. Since most of the important properties of such circuits depend on the fact that the circuit behaves differently when the direction of propagation is reversed, the scattering matrix seems to be a more natural mode of description than the impedance matrix from which these effects are not immediately evident. The properties of the scattering of microwave junctions containing magnetically saturated media are discussed. It is shown that except for nonreciprocity, the scattering matrix of such junctions satisfy the same requirements as that of junctions containing ordinary scalar media. The general scattering matrix of a lossless two port device is given. The circulator is discussed and a particular microwave circuit, of which several proposed circulators are a special case, is treated. Conditions on the elements of this circulator, in order that it be a perfect circulator, are derived. Finally deviations from the ideal circulator conditions are considered."
"By treating the scattering matrix as an operator, it is possible to relate the properties of cirulators to the cyclic substitutions of group theory and the oriented 1-circuits of topology. The body of knowledge made available by these two branches of mathematics is shown to yield precise definitions of circulator performance. Useful results in treating the symmetries, interconnections and cascade combinations of circulators are found by further application of group theory and topology. Practical application of the symmetry analysis is made to the design of circulators. It is shown that a necessary condition for circulator performance is that the structure under consideration possess no symmetry other than those specified in the circulator group. Thus, structures proposed for circulator development which do not meet this necessary requirement may be eliminated immediately with consequent savings in development time and expense."
"Contributions of various authors to the linear theory of propagation in magnetized ferrites are briefly reviewed. Modes of propagation are discussed for the cases where a static magnetic field is applied to a ferrite in directions parallel and perpendicular respectively to the direction of propagation of the microwave field. Various properties of propagation are described for waveguides of rectangular or circular cross section which are either partially or completely filled with ferrites. Emphasis is placed on those characteristics of propagation in ferrite media which are in contrast with those obtained in conventional media. Unusual types of mode \"cutoffs\" are described, as well as various nonreciprocal propagation properties resulting from the particular type of anisotropy which is present in a magnetized ferrite. The review closes with a brief discussion of some results obtained by perturbation methods."
"Gyromagnetic loading of waveguide structures curiously modifies the conventional modal description of propagation. Among the anomalies produced is that in which propagation is found to occur in vanishingly small waveguide cross sections at a given frequency. Another is the appearance of spurnous resonances in an ostensibly single mode waveguide. A physical basis of such phenomena is described employing the birefringent character of the gyromagnetic medium, and corroborating experimental evidence is offered."
"The objective of this study was to measure the birefringence of different ferrite configurations in circular waveguide. Large differential phase shifts relatively independent of frequency have been obtained with low external magnetic fields. A half-wave plate requiring an external magnetic field of 210 oersteds has been designed with a conversion loss of 3 db or less over the frequency range 9.0 to 9.7 kmc"
"A new ferrite isolator is described, which uses a helical transmission line. The main advantage of the new isolator, as compared to other isolators, is that no externally applied magnetic field is required. This has been achieved by using closed rings of soft ferrites with a square-loop magnetization curve. Although designed primarily for use in traveling-wave tubes, the new isolator should also find other applications. By suitable modifications, it can be used as an isolator, switch, or modulator with helical as well as hallow waveguide and coaxial lines. The best ratio of backward-loss to forward-loss in decibels obtained with the new isolator is 25:1 at 6500 mc, with a ratio better than 15:1 over a 25 per cent frequency band. Ratios of 100:1 were measured when a small external magnetic field was applied. Switching times of less than a microsecond are feasible."
"General expressions are obtained for the perturbation of transmission cavities at microwave frequencies by the magnetic properties of ferrites. Experimental results are given for a number of ferrite slabs and magnetic field orientations. The frequency shift of the cavities is given for the range of magnetic field strength from 0 to 1,000 oersteds and slab thicknesses of 0.010 to 0.100 inch. The microwave permeability of a ferrite in the direction of the applied magnetic field is also determined. Two magnetically-tuned x-band klystrons are described for applications requiring very wide-band frequency modulation with low amplitude modulation. Linear frequency deviations as large as 240 mc are obtained with only 13 per cent change in amplitude. This deviation can be extended by proper magnet design."
"A novel directional X-band coupler based on the nonreciprocal scattering properties of a ferrite cylinder is described. Experimental data for coupling and directivity are given as a function of various parameters. Approximate theoretical expressions for coupling and directivity are derived and discussed."
"The case of a dominant-mode rectangular cavity with a slab of ferrite against one side wall is treated. Use is made of the change in effective rf permeability of the ferrite in response to changes in the applied static magnetic field. Experimental results on an X-band cavity show a 10 per cent tuning range with an unloaded Q of 1,000 or more at 9,000 megacycles. Calculation of the Q of the cavity from the loss tangents of the ferrite material is outlined."
"Large ferrite samples are placed in microwave cavities with the object of achieving tunable microwave cavities. Experimental data, at X band frequencies, on ferrite tuning of conventional band-pass and band elimination cavities are presented. Curves of applied dc magnetic field vs cavity resonant frequency, bandwidth, loss, cavity Q, and window coupling coefficients are included. Of particular interest are the results obtained with a new type cavity filter. With a single circularly polarized cavity, a reflectionless filter is achieved which couples nearly 100 per cent of the energy from the main waveguide at the cavity resonant frequency. Experimental results, on the ferrite loading of these circularly polarized cavities, are presented, and a number of practical microwave applications are discussed."
"Three new devices for the electrical control of microwave phase shift are discussed. The first of these, the bucking rotator phase shifter, is a reciprocal unit. It employs two series ferrite rotators, the field coils of which are connected so as to produce opposing longitudinal magnetic fields. It is shown that the total rotation is zero independent of coil current, whereas the phase shift is a function of the current. The operation and limitations of the device are discussed. Curves of phase shift vs coil current for several configurations are presented. The other two devices are based on the use of a circular polarized phase shifter between quarter wave plates. In the new types, a reflection technique is described wherein only one quarter wave plate is required and the phase shift section is used twice. A nonreciprocal phase shifter and an electrically controllable short circuit based on this technique are described. The principles of operation are discussed, and the devices are compared with other types as to performance, size, and bandwidth."
"Using recently developed low magnetization ferrite materials, it is possible to extend the application of ferromagnetic resonance absorption down through S band. An electronically tunable image rejection filter designed to operate with a 2 to 4 kmc receiver has been constructed in coaxial transmission line. Image suppression considerably greater than 50 db with signal attenuation only 1.5 db is attained for an intermediate frequency of 500 mc."
"The properties of ferrites at microwave may be used in antennas to produce some interesting effects. A rectangular waveguide termininating in the plane of an infinite ground screen and radiating into a half space has a ferrite slab located at the aperture. With a TE10 mode of 9365 mc sent through the waveguide the far-zone radiation pattern in the H plane has been measured as a function of a transversely applied static magnetic field. It was discovered that for certain thicknesses of the ferrite slab the radiation lobe deviated considerably from the normal to the infinite screen with only small changes in the applied magnetic field. For some of these resonance points and their neighborhoods more detailed investigations were carried out in order to determine: a) the amplitude and phase distributions of the electric field in the aperture; b) reciprocity relationships. Small holes backed with a ferrite slab also exhibit a pattern shift with applied magnetic field. When an axial magnetic field is applied to a ferrite rod protruding from an open circular guide, the radiation pattern of the rod antenna may be shifted considerably. This effect has cylindrical symmetry."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This paper reviews these two types of literature on quality control: 1) books, pamphlets and articles that describe what quality control is and what role statistics plays in quality control; and 2) some published examples of the use of the quality control process and of statistical techniques in the electronics industry. The quality control process is described as a dynamic operation concerned with all the coordinate steps in the specification, production, and inspection of goods to satisfy consumer wants. This is in accord with the writings of Dr. W. A. Shewhart, the originator of statistical quality control. Progress is being made in the use of quality control for improving the reliability of electronic components and equipments."
"The frequency stability of coaxial-cavity oscillators in the 300-1200-mc range can be greatly improved by the addition of a small capacitor in series with the frequency-controlling device. The series reactance thus introduced magnifies the effective capacitance external to the vacuum tube by a factor which is dependent upon the electrical length of the cavity. In theory the stabilization factor can be very high, but practical limitations due to tank-circuit losses, restrictions on reasonable values of cavity characteristic impedance, and practical minimum values of output power restrict the improvement of frequency stability over the nonstabilized oscillator to an order of ten to twenty. In the 600-mc region a preferred form of oscillator employs a tube type 6AF4 operating with an anode voltage of 50-60 volts. In the associated cavity the ratio of diameters of the outer and inner conductors is approximately 2:1 and the characteristic impedance is about 40 ohms. This oscillator, in its better range, exhibits a mean frequency stability of 0.3 cycles/mc/volt, thereby comparing favorably with overtone crystal oscillators in their upper frequency range. The oscillator produces about 80 mw of output power with a plate efficiency of slightly less than 10 per cent. In the frequency range of 700-1000 mc a preferred form is composed of two cavities placed end to end and employs a pencil triode, type 5876. In this oscillator the series capacitor takes the form of an iris which is interposed between the two cavities."
"A design procedure and theory are given for the common-emitter transistor video amplifier with and without a feedback resistor in the emitter lead. In the analysis a junction transistor of the alloy type is represented by the Johnson-Giacoletto hybrid-pi equivalent circuit for the common-emitter transistor. The design theory accounts for the most significant part of the bilateralness of the transistor by adding a \"Miller\" capacitance term to the diffusion capacitance of the common-emitter transistor. Gain-bandwidth products and optimum load resistors determined for a cascade of amplifier stages are reported. The figure of merit of the transistor in a cascade of identical video amplifier stages is compared with the figure of merit of a transistor used as a power amplifier. The theory and design are given for the process of obtaining a maximally flat frequency response in a single stage by means of a capacitor shunting the feedback resistor, or by means of inductances in the amplifier interstages. Experimental results for the capacitor compensation scheme are given."
"Experimental work by others at 10 cm wavelength has shown that irreversible damage to the eye is caused by electromagnetic radiation, if the energy flux is in excess of about 0.2 watt/cm2. Intolerable temperature rise, due to total body irradiation may be anticipated for flux values in excess of 0.02 watts/cm2. Hence a discussion of hazards due to total body irradiation is of primary interest. This paper presents data which analyze the mode of propagation of electromagnetic radiation into the human body and resultant heat development. The two quantities which are considered in detail are: 1) coefficient, which characterizes the percentage of airborne electromagnetic energy as absorbed by the body, and 2) distribution of heat sources in skin, subcutaneous fat, and deeper situated tissues. It is shown: 1) The percentage of absorbed energy is near 40 per cent at frequencies much smaller than 1000 and higher than 3000 mc. In the range from about 1000 to 3000 mc the coefficient of absorption may vary from 20 to 100 per cent. 2) Radiation of a frequency below 1000 mc will cause deep heating, not well indicated by the sensory elements in the skin and, therefore, considered especially dangerous. Radiation whose frequency exceeds 3000 mc will be absorbed in the skin. Radiation of a frequency between 1000 and 3000 mc will be absorbed in both body surface and in the deeper tissues, the ratio being dependent on parameters involved."
"The present extent of the number of radio communications has led to an overcrowding of transmitting frequencies. It is therefore desirable, especially in variable frequency transmitters or receivers, to be able to make, according to circumstances, a swift choice of the proper working frequency. On the other hand, in phase shift telegraphy and in single sideband transmitters, a very high long-term accuracy in the carrier wave is needed. Hence, the main problem is the design of an easily tunable, high-precision variable oscillator with, of course, a limited number of crystals. In this respect, probably the most famous present technique consists in the use of a variable oscillator frequency synchronized on pulse harmonics issued by a quartz oscillator. This system is referred to, hereafter, as an \"Impulse Governed Oscillator\" (IGO). This paper gives a mathematical analysis of the above system together with its circuits. The main difficulties met in its design as well as the way to overcome them are examined."
"Microwave receivers having bandwidths as much as 22 times greater than the intermediate-frequency amplifier bandwidth have been constructed by generating sidebands on a local oscillator signal and utilizing these sidebands as virtual local oscillators. Both a microwave and a vhf local oscillator signal are injected on a crystal to generate an infinite set of sideband signals separated by the frequency of the vhf oscillator and centered about the microwave oscillator. The low-level received signal mixes with one of these generated virtual local oscillator signals to produce the desired IF signal. The two mixing operations can take place in one crystal or two separate crystals. Measurements have been made of tangential sensitivity and conversion loss and indicate that sensitivities greater than -70 dbm and a continuous bandwidth of 700 mc can be achieved with an intermediate-frequency amplifier having 50 mc bandwidth."
"Investigations into the frequency-temperature behavior of AT-type quartz resonators have revealed differences between natural and synthetic quartz. The differences refer mainly to a shift of the optimum angle of orientation by a few minutes of arc and to a slight change of the frequency-temperature characteristic itself. To describe the frequency-temperature behavior analytically, the measured change of frequency vs temperature can be developed in a power series, determined by first, second, and third-order temperature coefficients. In the temperature range from -60 to +100C. higher-order temperature coefficients can be neglected. For a large number of AT-type resonators of various angles made from natural and several kinds of synthetic quartz, the temperature coefficients, and their variation with the angle have been determined. It is possible to modify the properties of synthetic quartz by introducing other elements during the growing process. An example is quartz grown in an alkaline solution containing germanium dioxide. Measurements have been made on AT-type resonators cut from such synthetic quartz. The third-order temperature coefficient for the AT-type resonator is found noticeably reduced; the frequency-temperature curves are flattened over a wider temperature range."
"It is shown that the distortion generated in fm systems by small sinusoidal ripples on either group delay or amplitude characteristics can be evaluated in terms of the distortion due to a single echo. Using results already established for echo distortion, curves are plotted relating intermodulation distortion of a frequency-division-multiplex signal to the amplitude, periodicity, and location of the small sinusoidal ripple for a 600 channel system. These curves are of value in estimating permissible limits of variation of transmission characteristics over the significant rf band."
"Electronic-switching signal transmission devices have been, until recently, used principally for the simultaneous display of more than one waveform on a cathode ray oscillograph. During the past few years, however, in the field of electronic analog computers, several applications have required the development of electronic switches which have transmission characteristics consistent with the performance of precision computing elements. These precision switches utilize highly stabilized feedback amplifiers with the switching elements included in the forward gain portion of the loop to minimize the nonlinear characteristic effects. Multiple output switches, which provide either current or voltage output signal transmission from a single input voltage source, are available. Precision electronic time-division multipliers have been developed which utilize both current and voltage type switching circuits. Modulators and demodulators, utilizing voltage type switched-feedback amplifiers, have been developed with a linearity of 0.1 per cent. A multiple input switch has also been developed which involves an unusual circuit design. This design incorporates two separate input stages and a common output stage with separate feedback paths provided between the common output and the two inputs. With a square wave keying voltage alternately activating the two input stages, signals applied to the two input stages can be alternately connected to the output. The transmission stability and precision are largely dependent on the feedback loop gain of the amplifier and the switching speed on the amplifier bandwidth."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists the chairmen of the various Professional groups along with their contact information."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"The elements of the SSB communication system and its advantages over the AM system are discussed. These advantages include benefits to the individual user, generally in the form of reduced size and weight of equipment or more effective communication when conditions limit the size of the installation, and benefits to the radio environment which include spectrum conservation and reduction in the total radiated power required to accomplish a given communication function. Particular attention is devoted to the areas in which problems still remain in the use of SSB techniques in hf communication. Many of these problems arise from the necessity of having a suitable demodulating carrier at the receiver, and include the desirability of having highly accurate and stable frequency control of the transmitter and receiver, complex techniques for frequency synthesis, and techniques for carrier transmission and receiver afc. Other problems include compatibility between AM and SSB systems during the transition period, and standardization of SSB practices."
"This paper briefly reviews wire and radio art at the time of the invention of the single-sideband method of transmission. Recognition of sidebands, realization that either sideband contains the entire information and that the carrier wave conveys none, and the experimental discovery of homodyne reception, all preceded the invention. The method was first employed commercially in carrier telephone systems. Narrow resonance characteristics and limited transmitting power necessitated elimination of one sideband and carrier in the first transoceanic radio telephone system. Successful application to hf radio systems and superior performance under fading conditions resulted in general adoption of single sideband for long-haul services."
"Single-sideband high frequency communications systemhs have several advantages over AM, PM, and FM for long-range communications. These advantages include low harmonic and intermodulation distortion due to the behavior of the transmission medium, more efficient use of spectrum, and better power efficiency. Proposed precise frequency control would make it possible to employ single-sideband systems for a great many applications, including unlimited netting, that are currently outside the capabilities of conventional single sideband. It is anticipated that precise frequency-controlled single sideband can be employed to increase the reliability utility, and capacity of military and commercial hf radio communications."
"Frequency stability and reduced bandwidth of single sideband suppressed carrier transmissions are important factors which assist in easing the present crowding of the high frequency bands. Present channel assignments are ordinarily predicated upon a frequency stability of 0.01 per cent and double sideband amplitude modulation. By making the transition to accurate frequency control and minimum bandwidth of transmission, many additional channels are made available. Typical examples are charted from the aeronautical mobile bands to illustrate this point. Factors affecting channel allocation are discussed."
"Prime cost of equipment and continuing cost of operation are both important in the selection of communications apparatus. Listings are given for both transmitters and receivers on a comparable basis. Size, weight, floor area, and prime equipment costs are included to permit easy comparisons between single sideband and conventional equipment. Comparison of the equipments on all factors indicate the use of single sideband equipment in high frequency communications applications."
"Congestion of the 2 to 30 mc spectrum makes mandatory the reduction of bandwidths, on all types of transmissions, to the minimum technically required. This paper describes a method of economically utilizing the narrow-band plus high-stability techniques, normally associated with single-sideband systems, for frequency shift telegraph operation of one or more channels per transmitter. The frequency transposition type of fsk excitation is shown to have several advantages over present methods, whether for single channel operation with Class C transmitters or multichannel operation with linear transmitters. Tests made on a long-distance radio path indicate that frequency shifts as low as  30 cycles for single printer and  50 cycles for four-channel time-division multiplex are practicable, providing ultra-stable oscillators or afc is used."
"The virtual elimination of the carrier in single-side-band emission makes mandatory the accurate control of the frequencies used at the terminals of a single-sideband communications circuit. Independent, absolute frequency control of the receiver and transmitter provide immunity to propagation vagaries and interference which plague systems using partly-suppressed carrier and afc. Oscillators using high-frequency quartz resonators provide accurate and stable reference signals in small, rugged packages. A master oscillator, stabilized by phase comparison with signals derived from the reference oscillator, provide a multiplicity of accurate and stable channel frequencies."
"This paper presents a third method of generation and detection of a single-sideband signal. The method is basically different from either the conventional filter or phasing method in that no sharp cutoff filters or wide-band 90 phase-difference networks are needed. This system is especially suited to keeping the signal energy confined to the desired bandwidth. Any unwanted sideband occupies the same band as the desired sideband, and the unwanted sideband in the usual sense is not present."
"The Elimination and Restoration System was originally described in 1952 [1]. The purpose of the following is to evaluate certain basic characteristics of the Envelope Elimination and Restoration System and to compare it with the Linear Amplifier System [2,3]."
"It can be shown that present usage of amplitude modulation does not permit the inherent capabilities of the modulation process to be realized. In order to achieve the ultimate performance of which AM is capable synchronous or coherent detection techniques must be used at the receiver and carrier suppression must be employed at the transmitter. When a performance comparison is made between a synchronous AM system and a single-sideband system it is shown that many of the advantages normally attributed to single sideband no longer exist. SSB has no power advantage over the synchronous AM (DSB) system and SSB is shown to be more susceptible to jamming. The performance of the two systems with regard to multipath or selective fading conditions is also discussed. The DSB system shows a decided advantage over SSB with regard to system complexity, especially at the transmitter. The bandwidth saving of SSB over DSB is considered and it is shown that factors other than signal bandwidth must be considered. The number of usable channels is not necessarilydoubled by the use of SSB and in many practical situations no increase in the number of usable channels results from the use of SSB. The transmitting and receiving equipment which has been developed under Air Force sponsorship is discussed. The receiving system design involves a local oscillator phase-control system which derives carrier phase information from the sidebands alone and does not require the use of a pilot carrier or synchronizing tone."
"A general expression is developed for sideband suppression obtained with the phase-shift method of single-sideband signal generation. The sideband suppression ratio is expressed in terms of four systems parameters, three of which are governed by the characteristics of wide-band phase-shift networks employed in such signal generators. Several typical phase-shift network configurations are analyzed and shown to be equivalent to a cascade of networks of \"simplest\" type. In addition, certain special network combinations are presented. A simple dual-channel multiplex single-sideband generator of the phase-shift type is shown. Use of the phase-shift method in combination with band-pass filters to enhance system performance is discussed. The role of a modified phase-shift type of signal generator as a system-test signal source is outlined. The eflects of intermodulation distortion on signal purity and the performance stability of the phase-shift method are discussed from the system viewpoint."
"The phase-shift method of single-sideband signal reception exhibits characteristics determined by four principal design pararneters. The expression developed for the ratio of sideband rejection to sideband acceptance is similar to that which expresses the sideband suppression ratio obtainable with the phase-shift method single-sideband signal generation. Zero frequency output signals derived by demodulators from a transmitted pilot carrier may be used for gain control and frequency control in a receiver designed for this mode of operation. Dual channel operation is obtained with a minimum of equipment added to that necessary for single channel use. Use of the phase-shift method in combination with band-pass filters to enhance performance is discussed."
"In discussing some of the basic properties of electromechanical filters, both longitudinal and torsional modes of vibration are considered. The torsional mode has advantages which make it superior to the longitudinal mode in most applications. The limits of the frequency range, at the present state of the art, are from approximately 50 to 600 kc. From a production standpoint, however, the preferred frequencies are from 200 to 250 kc. The high Q and inherent thermal stability of electromechanical filters make them ideally suited for filter type single-sideband equipments. In view of their size, weight, rugged construction, and reduced spurious responses, torsional mode filters designed to operate at a carrier frequency of 250 kc are an excellent choice for this application. A typical 250 kc 9-resonant section torsional sideband filter provides 300 cycles of audio cutoff, carrier rejection of 27 db, and a 60 to 6 db shape factor of 1.56. A 7-resonant section filter of the same type provides 20 db of carrier rejection and a shape factor of 1.85. Carrier filters of 250 kc have been built having a bandwidth of 200 cycles and a shape factor of 3."
"This paper presents a brief discussion of some of the problems which confront the designer of single sideband receiving equipment. Among the items considered are frequency stability, cross modulation, gain distribution and diversity combining. Some of the presently used techniques for single sideband receivers are also presented."
"The principal requirements of linear power amplifiers for single-sideband and frequency multiplexing service are low distortion and reliability. The nature of distortion generation is discussed and a theoretical tube characteristic for zero distortion in class AB operation is presented. Simple expressions for quickly estimating tube operating conditions and a more detailed presentation of the Chaffee 11-point analysis for accurate computation is made. High gain stages minimize the number of stages required and enhance reliability. An illustration shows the circuit of a high gain, high performance three-stage amplifier suitable for linear amplifier service and automatic tuning."
"The need for reduced levels of intermodulation distortion products from linear rf power amplifiers is increasing as the state of the art advances. Two basic means of reducing distortion to levels better than is obtainable from available tubes are shown. One is direct rf feedback and the other is envelope distortion cancelling modulation. Some of the problems and limitations as well as advantages and performance characteristics are presented to aid the reader in evaluating these methods. RF feedback is a superior method, although useful amounts of distortion reduction can be achieved using envelope distortion cancelling modulation. A circuit of an amplifier combining both methods is shown which produces better performance than using either alone."
"Methods of automatically positioning tuned circuits for rapid frequency changes are discussed. Equipment ranging from low level single-sideband exciter-receivers to high power linear rf amplifiers are considered with attention given to the correlation of positioning accuracy, tuning change time, and ultimate cost of equipment. The merits and limitations of mechanical positioning, follow-up potentiometer servo systems, and phase servo systems, are noted. Special emphasis is placed upon the adjustment of tank circuits in linear power amplifiers. The problem of obtaining phase information for the servo systems is presented and several improved circuits for tuning and loading detection are explained. The paper is concluded with a general discussion of gain control, sequencing of control circuits, and protection of tubes during tuning cycles."
"The linear rf amplifier is a vital segment of all sideband equipments and measurement of its degree of nonlinearity is therefore of paramount importance. The basis for using the two-tone method of measurement is described by showing the types of nonlinear distortion products generated by the different orders of transfer characteristic curvature. Measurements by noise loading are described and it is shown that the results are essentially independent of the delay distortion characteristics of an amplifier. Descriptions of two basic types of distortion-measuring equipments, one using noise and the other using two tones, are given. Brief descriptions, photographs, and block diagrams are shown for audio-video and high-frequency spectrum measuring instruments."
"The increased demands for multiple and direct international radiotelegraph channels between the nations of the world and the shortage of usable high-frequency spectrum has greatly increased the importance of the single-sideband radio system for this purpose. The world's requirements for high frequencies, 4 mc to 30 mc, are so large that they are assigned over and over again to various services on the basis of geographical and time sharing. Single-sideband operation with multiple subcarriers and automaticfrequency control permit a high order of frequency utilization efficiency. Single-sideband operation offers a high degree of flexibility in meeting the various requirements of international communications. The number of its subcarriers can be changed to meet varying load conditions; they can be shifted to avoid temporary interference; and they can be used to operate with more than one point in the same geographical area. Codes with various numbers of signal elements either equal or unequal in length, and different types of modulation, and speeds can be carried on any or all subcarriers."
"The single-sideband receiving equipment, described in this paper, operates in the frequency range from 2.8 to 28 megacycles. The receiver provides for dual space-diversity reception of single sideband, independent sideband, double sideband, amplitude modulation, or phase modulation signals. The first heterodyne oscillator and the second heterodyne oscillator are common to both receiver circuits. The first heterodyne oscillator is a highly stabilized oscillator of the \"captive\" type. Diversified carrier from the two receivers is used in a comparator-type afc system. A noise-operated squelch disables the afc during poor-signal intervals. The agc voltage may be supplied from a choice of the signal carrier, the aggregate energy of either sideband, or (in the case of phone reception) from a combination of carrier and sideband energy. A diversity combiner is provided for the reception of phone signals. The telegraph diversity combiner uses a relatively simple limiter-combiner system. The receiver has a noise figure of 6 db and a minimum image ratio of 100 db. The companion transmitter is comprised of single-sideband modulating equipment, heterodyne frequency converters, and a linear amplifier system having a peak power output of 20 kw. The amplifier features continuous tuning throughout the operating range of 4 to 30 mc. The entire transmitter is designed to meet modem requirements of low distortion and low spurious radiation. It is intended to meet telephone, multichannel telegraph, and facsimile service requirements."
"In the past, the problem of frequency accuracy and stability has been the major deterrent in the effective utilization of single sideband, suppressed carrier techniques for hf air-ground communications. This paper describes briefly the AN/ ARC-21 airborne hf, double sideband, communication equipment, and the frequency-control system which permits the remote selection and accurate automatic tuning to any selected frequency channel of the 44,000 available at intervals of 0.5 kc in the 2 to 24 mc spectrum. The improvement in the stability of this frequency-control system and the modifications of the several major subassemblies, essential to the conversion of this equipment to the single-sideband mode, are described. The provision for reception and transmission of an equivalent amplitude modulated signal during the transition period is discussed. Block diagrams, performance characteristics, and photographs are presented showing the original DSB equipment and the SSB conversion."
"Single-sideband operation, in its most advanced forms, is not compatible with transmitting and receiving equipment presently in use for voice circuits throughout the world. Changing to a new system of modulation presents problems during the transition period. These problems include questions of technical standards, frequency allocation, compromise modulation systems to permit compatible communication with unconverted stations, and in changes in operating customs and procedures that may become desirable as a result of the other modifications. Some of these problems are outlined and discussed in this paper."
"The use of SSB techniques in air-ground communications appears highly desirable because of the spectrum conservation and because of the improved performance which can be achieved under the limitations on size and weight or peak antenna voltage. An orderly and economically sound procedure of transition from AM to SSB techniques requires that a degree of compatibility between the two systems be achieved. Early SSB equipments must be capable of operating in an AM system, and eventually AM equipments will have to be modified to perform in an SSB system. Various techniques for effecting both types of modifications are reviewed. It is suggested that new SSB equipment provide an AM detector and means for transmitting a full-carrier SSB signal which can be received on an AM receiver."
"The application, characteristics, and limitations of hf radio sets for military vehicular communication are tabulated and discussed. By the use of SSB, transistorization, and electric tuning it is shown that a s/n improvement of 16 db over the most modern existing DSB set of equal size and power drain is possible. A conservative s/n improvement of 7 db is shown theoretically and experimentally to provide up to twice the distance range and up to 170 per cent better word recognition than DSB. Additional advantages of interference reduction, spectrum utilization, quasi-duplex operation, heat reduction, equipment reliability, and reduction of maintenance problems are discussed. The problems of compatibility with DSB, frequency control, voltage breakdown, space, and reduction of mechanical moving parts together with suggested solutions are presented."
"There has been increasingly widespread use of radio to replace wire and cable in telephone communications systems. Most of it, however, has been applied to telephone trunks between switchboards or for private line application. Use of it on a large scale for subscriber lines into a switchboard has never been considered economically acceptable due to the extravagance of the frequency spectrum requirements, cost of equipment, and numerous undesirable technical problems. The radio central system described in this paper promises to provide radio subscriber lines with sufficient bandwidth economy to make them worthwhile for mobile subscribers. The requirements of such a mobile communications system are discussed with particular attention being given to their effects on the choice of a modulation technique. It is shown that single-sideband techniques are well suited for application to coordinated mobile communication systems, and overcome many of the technical difficulties associated with other methods of modulation. Problems of interference, automatic frequency control, and systems stability are discussed. Methods of reducing the effects of the intermodulation distortion and resulting cross-channel interference that occur in the input stages of a broad-band radio receiver are given. One solution is suggested to selective calling on a single-sideband coordinated communications system having relatively poor frequency stability."
"Single-sideband techniques are in wide use in the amateur hf bands allotted for radiotelephony, and the number of amateur stations equipped for SSB is growing rapidly. This paper touches briefly on the historical background of SSB in the amateur service, and outlines the operating characteristics that have proved to be most advantageous in meeting the special requirements of amateur communication. The broad categories of equipment in current use are described, and some of the problems peculiar to a service in which several modes of radiotelephony are used simultaneously in a frequency band, without channelization, are discussed."
"Mobile SSB and fm systems are compared on the basis of the same equipment size. The influence of the speech processing on the comparative results is discussed. It is concluded that SSB may provide a somewhat better range of operation with considerable spectrum saving but the signal-to-noise ratio in strong signal areas will be poorer."
"This paper shows the important part that the carrier plays in over-all system performance and in particular compares the various systems using full carrier, reduced carrier, suppressed carrier and controlled carrier. It is concluded that as the carrier is reduced, the factors of modulation splatter, transmitter efficiency, available peak sideband power, desensitization, and intermodulation all tend to improve. It is also pointed out that due to system stability requirements, complete suppression at the higher radio-frequencies is not feasible. Because there are many types of SSB receiving systems, each requiring a different amount of carrier for synchronizing purposes, it is necessary to consider all values of transmitted carrier to compare the resulting systems and to gain a better understanding of the system characteristics considered. The characteristics of the controlled carrier system are discussed for completeness."
"When high-power transmission is considered in the vhf region, it is implied that ionospheric scatter propagation is contemplated. The type of modulation that best fits the propagation mode is considered-especially fm and SSB. This discussion shows that SSB is a logical choice for this type of circuit and that adequate frequency stability is the only requirement necessary to insure improved communications at vhf using this method of modulation. Some of the factors influencing the design of a 40-kw, duplex, vhf system are presented."
"Several factors relevant to the design of uhf longrange communication systems are analyzed. In particular, singlesideband amplitude modulation is evaluated and compared to frequency modulation, with special regard to: a) spectrum conservation; b) performance in the presence of multipath; and c) realized channel signal-to-noise ratio vs total transmitted rf power. It is shown that: 1) SSB requires one-sixth to one-tenth of the spectrum width required by fm. 2) The useful bandwidth of the transmission medium in the presence of multipath is at least four times as great for SSB as for fm. 3) The average power required for a twenty-four channel SSB system is about 20 decibels less than that required for an equivalent fm system, providing equal usable communications. System design considerations are discussed for uhf single sideband, as well as the design parameters of a particular set of equipment operating in the 300 to 400-megacycle band. The linearity of high-power klystrons is discussed, and a promising technique for achieving highly efficient operation of such devices is described."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A magnetic core has a switching time of a few microseconds and has the ability to store binary information indefinitely without application of power. New techniques for using cores in digital data-processing systems are described. Reference is made to a system containing eight hundred cores to indicate reliability, and size and power requirements relative to a vacuum tube version. Three fundamental interconnecting circuits for data transfer are described. These are the single-diode loop, and a new split winding loop, and new inhibit loop. The single-diode loop permits unconditional transfer of information from one or more transmitting cores to one or more receiving cores. The split-winding loop allows conditional transfer between cores and thus permits logical operations upon isolated cores. The inhibit loop offers a reliable method for conditionally inhibiting the transfer of information from one core to another. A logical symbolism for these loops has been found useful in system design and analysis. Units performing the functions of storage, control, and logic are explained. These are shift registers (serial, parallel, and reversible); cycle distributors and counters; negation, inclusive- or, conjunction, exclusive- or, and material equivalence (compare). System design considerations are illustrated by two examples of half-adders."
"The problem of modes of propagation of electromagnetic waves between a perfectly conducting earth and a gradually varying ionosphere is considered. The case of exponentially varying ionospheric parameters is solved in terms of Bessel functions. The propagation constant, the angle of arrival and the group velocity are calculated for the first few modes of propagation. It is shown that the results for the phase and group velocities and angle of arrival of low-order modes obtained when the ionosphere is assumed to be a perfectly conducting sheet at a height simply related to ionospheric parameters are very close to the true values. An application of this theory to the propagation of \"tweeks\" is discussed."
"Artificial dielectrics utilizing three-dimensional arrays of spherical and cylindrical holes in base materialsof polystyrene, Plexiglas, Teflon, and others have been investigated. A theoretical expression relating the dielectric constant to the number and size of the spheres, and to the dielectric constants of the sphere and base materials, is derived. The analysis is restricted to spherical voids small with respect to the wavelength. The theoretical expression (in terms of the fractional volume of the cylinders) applies also to cylindrical-void media, if the length-to-diameter ratio of the cylinders is not far removed from unity. However, for large length-to-diameter ratios, the dielectric constant depends appreciably on the orientation of the cylinder axes with respect to the electric field. Measured dielectric constants obtained by the shorted wave-guide method at 5,000 mc are shown. Values of dielectric constant in the range of 1.1 to 2.6 have been obtained. By using high-dielectric-constant base materials this range could be raised."
"An electronically tunable frequency meter is described for rapidly determining frequency over a wide range. The device depends on paramagnetic resonance in , -diphenyl -picryl hydrazyl. It consists of a two-inch section of coaxial transmission line filled with hydrazyl and placed in a longitudinal magnetic field. Frequencies from 600 mc through X band have been displayed on an oscilloscope by sweeping the magnetic field to 4 kilogauss. Two frequencies 8 mc apart at S band have been resolved and the accuracy for a single frequency is  1 mc. The complete system is described and performance in L and S bands discussed."
"The frequency response of bipolar transistors is calculated using a model which assumes that the spread in the transit time of minority carriers flowing from emitter to collector is the major factor in determining the frequency cutoff. The total emitter-to-collector transit time is determined by the combined effects of drift and diffusion but the spread in transit time is determined exclusively by diffusion. The analysis is adapted to point-contact transistors and checks experimental measurements of frequency cutoff in four groups of point-contact transistors having different structure and material parameters."
"A small cylindrical germanium crystal doped with donor and acceptor impurities of different segregation coefficients is partly melted, then caused to freeze rapidly. Due to the impurity segregation effect a p-n junction is formed at the stopping level of the liquid-solid interface. As the freezing process is accelerated, quenching occurs and impurity segregation can no longer take place. This produces a second p-n junction very close to the first junction. It is shown that most of the heat is dissipated by conduction through the crystal. Neglecting convection and radiation losses, the freezing rate in a typical structure can be greater than 0.85 cm/ sec. It is found that the whole structure remains a single crystal after such a treatment."
"The radio-frequency energy distribution of a Frequency-Division-Multiplex, Frequency-Modulated Multichannel telephony system is evaluated. An estimate is obtained of the intermodulation noise generated when this spectrum is passed through an \"ideal\" bandpass filter with very sharp cutoff. From this it is possible to specify the minmum bandwidth of such a filter in terms of required system performance. This result provides a useful guide to the bandwidth over which control of group-delay and attenuation is necessary."
"The large-signal traveling-wave amplifier equations have been solved and results are presented for a wide range of the traveling-wave amplifier parameters. The results have been analyzed and are presented to provide design information on large-signal traveling-wave amplifiers. Curves of saturation voltage gain and saturation efficiency are included for C= 0.05, 0.1, and 0.2 when QC= 0 and for QC= 0.05, 0.125, 0.25 and 0.50 when C= 0.1; for the space-charge cases B = 0.5, 0.75, 1.0 and 1.5. In all cases d = 0. A power output vs power input curve is shown for the case C = 0.1, QC = 0.25, B = 1 and d = 0. For all the cases studied the ratio of helix-to-stream radii was taken as 2. The effect of series loss along the helix is also studied for C= 0.1, QC= 0.125 and B= 1: curves for variable d at fixed b and for variable b at fixed d are presented. The effect of the placement of loss is also studied."
"A new type of waveguide filter is described which utilizes circular waveguide components. Through the use of circular polarization a particularly compact structure has been achieved. The features of the filter include constant input resistance, high power handling ability, and high efficiency. Although intended primarily for use as a vestigial sideband filter in the uhf television frequency range, the new filter should find application throughout the frequency range in which waveguide techniques are applicable."
"Frequency-stability properties of oscillators using point-contact transistors are investigated both analytically and experimentally. Point-contact-transistor \"two-terminal\" oscillators are analyzed by means of nonlinear differential equations of the Van der Pol type. Duality relationship is demonstrated between oscillators using the voltage-controlled, negative-impedance, base-input characteristics and oscillators using the current-controlled, negative-impedance, emitter-input or collector-input characteristics. As a result, the general stability criteria derived for the former can be applied directly to the latter. Stabilization techniques are derived according to theoretical analysis. Experimental results confirming the theoretical findings are also included."
"A method of calculating the range performance of a pulse radar is presented which is simple, yet which leads to more consistent results than do other methods commonly used. The factors entering into the calculation are discussed in detail, and graphs are given which greatly simplify the procedure."
"A family of signals is considered which lie within a bandwidth of W cps. Methods are discussed of experimentally obtaining suitable discrete numbers at the rate of 2W per second to describe completely any given member of the family. An \"Educated Direct\" sampling method is presented and compared with previously known sampling methods."
"Part I of this paper sets out a theoretical and experimental analysis of the rubber membrane analogy. Part II describes and analyzes the resistance paper analogy. Both analogies have errors which eare investigated by comparison with exactly computed solutions. Precautions which ought to be taken in using the analogies are described."
"Because the polarization sense of an electromagnetic wave is changed when the direction of propagation is reversed, a new type of polarization vector which is directionally dependent is introduced. The scattering matrix formulation is then introduced in terms of directional vectors and directional transformation matrices, and the transformation of the scattering matrix under a unitary change of polarization basis transformation is shown to be a congruent transformation. The congruent sub-group of unitary transformations of the polarization basis is then discussed, and it is shown that the scattering matrix can be reduced to diagonal form by this sub-group of transformations. A new matrix, called the polarization power scattering matrix, is then introduced and its relation to the scattering matrix is discussed. The power matrix gives the total power back-scattered from the target for any transmitted polarization. It specifies the scattering matrix up to two phase angles (one of which is of no importance), and is more easily measured. The total power scattering matrix can be determined for any target by measuring only the total power in the backscattered return; no phase measurement is necessary and only plane polarizations need be transmitted."
"A new analysis of the problem of continuously recovering periodically sampled data is given which starts with the assumption that the waveform being sampled is a stationary random function of time. The popular idealization of a band-limited frequency spectrum is not made; results obtained apply to all types of spectra and for any sampling frequency. In addition to such things as telemetering, radar, and data storage systems, for which the solution of this problem is of direct interest, the analytic techniques used may also be applied in the design and analysis of closed-loop control systems which utilize some digital elements."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This review of current practice in color receiver design covers the most usual circuit combinations which have found a place in commercial receivers. Further circuit standardization in all basic functions is clearly indicated and may be predicted through the next year. It may also be expected that wide usage of color receivers may revise present performance requirements and in turn introduce further circuit revisions."
"The transfluxor comprises a core of magnetic material with a nearly rectangular hysteresis loop and having two or more apertures. The control of the transfer of flux between the three or more legs of the magnetic core provides novel means to store and gate electrical signals. The transfluxor can control, for an indefinitely long time, the transmission of ac power according to a level established by a single setting pulse. This level can have any value in a continuous range, from no transmission to some maximum, thus affording either \"on-off\" or \"continuous\" stored control. These properties of the transfluxor, possessed by no other passive element, render it a significant addition to the list of basic circuit components presently employed in electronics. The characteristics of a representative two-aperture transfluxor are described. The device has high efficiency of power transmission, short setting time, negligible coupling between setting and output circuits and sharp setting thresholds. Several illustrative applications are given, including nondestructive readout memory systems and channel selector switches. Several examples of transfluxors with more than two apertures are described."
"This paper is devoted to O-type Carcinotron tubes, which are backward wave oscillators particularly suitable in applications requiring a tube with a very wide electronic tuning range and moderate power output. A survey of backward-wave operation is given. Theoretical results on the starting conditions are shown to compare favorably with experimental values. The effects of reflections are discussed and are shown to be very small only when the delay line has properly matched terminals. Approximate expressions for efficiency and frequencypushing are derived. Design and performance data are given for a series of tubes now in production, each of which covers about one octave in frequency, providing total frequency coverage from 1,000 to 12,000 mc. The maximum beam voltage of any of the tubes in the series is 1,500 volts. The rf power output of the series is 100 to 1,000 milliwatts. Data on delay lines, gun structures and focusing are given, and results of tests on 100 tubes are tabulated."
"The development of a barium-activated refractory metal thermionic emitter consisting of alkaline earth aluminates dispersed in a porous matrix of tungsten-molybdenum alloy is described. The cathode is manufactured from a powdered mixture of the constituents by compressing in a die, and sintering the compact. The influences of composition of alkaline earth aluminate, composition of refractory metal, ratio of aluminate to refractory metal, and firing conditions on the properties of the cathode are considered. The importance of chemical factors in determining optimum formulation for cathodes of this type is emphasized. In particular, the necessity for avoiding types of barium compounds capable of oxidizing the refractory metal without generating barium, and the desirability of providing a chemical system (combination of barium compound and refractory metal) capable of generating and evolving barium plus barium oxide at a rate not greatly in excess of that required for maintaining thermionic activation are demonstrated. The composition chosen for manufacture of cathodes is shown to meet the foregoing requirements, and to provide the additional favorable property of stability to air exposure of finished cathodes. Cathodes made by the methods described here and consisting of calcium barium aluminate dispersed in a porous matrix of tungsten-molybdenum alloy have a Richardson work function of approximately 1.7 ev and an A constant of about 2. They are suitable for operation in the temperature range of 1,000-1,200C (or higher, with shortened life). Emission density of 10 amperes/cm2 with life of more than 5,000 hours is obtainable at an operating temperature of 1,130C."
"This paper describes briefly charge-carrier multiplication, avalanche breakdown, and the effect of a greater than unity in junction transistors. The electrical characteristics in the &#x003B1;> 1 region and for the transition from &#x003B1;<I to &#x003B1;> 1 are discussed. One example of the useful applications is included in order to discuss some of the effects of the transistor parameters on circuit performance and to show the order of magnitude of the operating parameters. If the variation of a with emitter current is considered, it is found that even without base connection (I<sub>B</sub>=0) the transistor can have a region of negative differential resistance. Such a two-terminal device with nonthermal negative resistance is useful in various circuits."
"Noise in oscillator tubes due to the discrete nature of the electron can result in frequency fluctuations equivalent to frequency modulation by a wide band of Gaussian noise at small mean-square frequency deviations. Amplitude fluctuations are ignored. Also, low-frequency noise due to flicker and similar phenomena is ignored. The effect of the band-pass filter normally present in an oscillator on the parameters of the noise modulation is determined. Also, the power spectrum of the oscillator output is evaluated which, as a practical measure, implies little more than the phase correlation time of the carrier. Finally, the theory is applied to reactance-modulated oscillators, some fixed-tuned conventional oscillators, and magnetrons. Noise equations which evaluate the mean-square frequency deviation and the spectral width at the output of oscillators are given."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists the chairmen of the various Professional groups along with their contact information."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The three attributes of musical sound, pitch, loudness and timbre, are discussed in relation to their counterparts in an electrical signal, frequency, amplitude and harmonic spectrum. Although electrical devices can control these quantities simply according to the explicit instructions contained in written music, that is, to provide the \"bare essentials\" of a musical performance, it is more difficult to produce the complex patterns of frequency, amplitude and harmonic spectrum actually found in a musical performance on well known instruments. Control of the build up and decay of each note, arbitrary deviations of pitch, vibrato of varying rates and amounts, and a \"choir effect\" of random pattern of beats are required. Various means of achieving these effects are discussed, first in the electronic organ and then in various \"monophonic\" or single-note instruments. Finally, coded-performance of \"synthetic music\" devices are described, including those used by the Musique Concrete Group of Paris, and the Cologne Studio for Electronic Music."
"The study of nonlinearities in nature suitable for computer use has led to the cryotron, a device based on the destruction of superconductivity by a magnetic field. The cryotron, in its simplest form, consists of a straight piece of wire about one inch long with a single-layer control winding wound over it. Current in the control winding creates a magnetic field which causes the central wire to change from its superconducting state to its normal state. The device has current gain, that is, a small current can control a larger current; it has power gain so that cryotrons can be interconnected in logical networks as active elements. The device is also small, light, easily fabricated, and dissipates very little power."
"Oxygen and water vapor, when individually in contact with the transistor surface, have been found to cause substantial and generally opposite changes in the characteristics of germanium alloy junction transistors. These changes, however, are reversible: by means of vacuum baking a reproducible set of characteristics can be repeatedly reestablished after water vapor or oxygen has caused a large change in the characteristics. Very pure forms of other ordinary gases, such as hydrogen, nitrogen, and helium, are found to have no effect on these transistors. Very nearly ideal time stability of characteristics can be obtained, even under severe aging conditions, when water vapor and oxygen are completely removed and permanently excluded from the transistor surface, although under some circumstances a very pure atmosphere of oxygen (or air) may be desirable for the p-n-p transistor."
"A new microwave detector is described which possesses extremely large bandwidth capabilities in addition to being free from power limitations. The sensitivity is comparable to that of a crystal. This new device operates on the electron beam of a traveling wave tube as a velocity sorter by utilizing the stop-band phenomenon of a periodic magnetic focusing system. The electrons are sorted according to their rf velocity modulation and thus the collector current is a function of the microwave power in the beam. Several important related devices are discussed including a high level mixer."
"Electronic equipments which employ large numbers of tubes and components are often unreliable because a large number of parts may fail. A means of countering the undesirable effects of increasing equipment complexity is by introducing even more tubes and components as redundant circuitry. A requirement for obtaining the conditions, in which redundancy is helpful is for the causes of failure of parts to be independent. This calls for circuits to be designed so that as parts fail, their failure will not cause others to fail. The equations relating reliability to the number of circuit elements in the redundant and nonredundant cases are derived and applied to examples which show the degree of improvement which can be achieved. It is shown that equipment having hundreds of tubes could be made sufficiently reliable to satisfy most requirements. This greatly increased reliability can be maintained indefinitely by providing maintenance periods during which replacements are made for the parts which have failed while the operation has continued satisfactorily, the faulty condition having been obscured by the redundancy. This latter property of redundant circuit must be considered when establishing maintenance doctrines for equipment using these principles, since operational tests do not usually indicate the presence of faulty components or tubes. Rather, each tube and component must be temporarily disconnected from its redundant counterpart for the purposes of the test."
"Reduction of size and weight in electronic type transformers to keep pace with miniaturization in other phases of electronic component designing has led directly to higher temperature operation. Temperatures in the region of 185C require inorganic materials throughout, including where used, the dielectric coolant. Design details and materials performance in \"miniaturized\" electronic type transformers are discussed in this paper. Specific Class A transformers are redesigned using these new techniques, thus giving size comparison."
"Certain broad general principles of electronic reliability become obvious when reliability is viewed as one of a number of important aspects of the broad general problem of achieving most efficient and effective performance of some desired task using electronic equipment. 1) The reliability of an electronic device or system depends not only upon the intrinsic properties of the device, but also on the tasks it is required to perform, the characteristics of the demand for performance, and the conditions under which successful performance of the tasks is demanded. 2) The over-all reliability objective is not merely the prevention of failures; instead it is the achievement of successful system performance. 3) Failure is important only because of its effect on the external situation, and it is not important in itself. These principles are perhaps so self-evident as to sound like platitudes, yet their implications are seldom fully recognized. Accepting them as valid leads to the conclusion that to attempt to insure success merely by improving the failure characteristics of individual parts of an equipment or system is to neglect many fascinating and attractive approaches to reliability improvement. The achievement of successful, failure-resistant systems is the type of problem suitable for attack by the classic scientific method and by specific techniques used in operations research. A rationale for the development of reliable systems is developed from such a viewpoint and presented in the form of a system development check-list."
"A new compact magnetic method for driving thyratron grids has recently simplified high-power fast response servos and regulated power supplies. Since large power gain is available in the thyratron, power amplification can be sacrificed in the magnetic circuit to gain speed of response comparable to the thyratron inverse cycle. The new grid circuit provides a rapid rate of rise of thyratron firing voltage, widecontrol range and high-voltage amplification. It eliminates from the grid circuit most of the usual interference and \"noise\" pick-up. Dc or ac input signals to the magnetic circuit work equally well, and the signal voltage source can be isolated from the power circuit."
"It is shown that regenerative circuits of the discontinuous-output type such as the monostable multivibrator do not have their high speed performance improved by the use of distributed amplification in the amplifier portion."
"The reliability of a pulse radar system is often reduced by intermittent burnout of the receiver crystal. It has been found that one possible cause of this is the occurrence in the Transmit-Receive (TR) switch of occasional transitions from a glow to an arc of the keep-alive gas discharge. Following a transition, the keep-alive discharge is extinguished for a period of the order of fifty microseconds, during which time the protection afforded by the switch is greatly reduced. Methods of preventing this effect have been applied to TR cells. In the best method, two keep-alive electrodes are fitted to the same cell. This considerably reduces the chances of the cell being without a keep-alive discharge at any time. Cells of a particular design originally protected crystals for less than 100 hours, and this was attributed to the occurrence of glow-arc transitions. After modification as above, crystal protection for more than 2,000 hours was obtained."
"The tapered transmission line matching section is analyzed by treating it as a high pass filter. The ideal reflection coefficient characteristic for the taper that gives the smallest pass band tolerance for a given cutoff frequency and vice versa is derived from the expression for the reflection coefficient of the optimum designed n section quarter-wave transformer by taking the limit as n tends to infinity. By neglecting the square of the reflection coefficient in the differential equation for the reflection coefficient on the taper, a synthesis procedure is derived for obtaining an optimum taper. The procedure is similar to that used in designing an optimum line source distribution in antenna theory. Conditions are derived for the maximum allowable pass band reflection and change in impedance level for which the theory remains accurate. For a maimum reflection coefficient of 0.1 in the pass band the theory remains accurate for all frequencies above the cutoff value provided the change in impedance level does not exceed 7.5. This optimum taper is compared with the well-known exponential and Gaussian tapers and is found to be 13.9 per cent and 27 per cent shorter respectively for the same cutoff frequency and pass band tolerance."
"A new waveguide rotary joint has been designed which will permit multiple stacking of similar joints on a common axis. The rotary joint of annular waveguide design will carry high power and permit low vswr and low insertion loss operation throughout the full rotation. The theory, design, and characteristics of such a joint are presented."
"A double-slab ferrite field displacement isolator has been constructed for the 10.7-11.7 kmc band with the following performance: reverse loss of 70 db from 10.8-11.7 kmc and 64 db at 10.7 kmc; forward loss less than 1 db, except 1-1.2 db between 11.6 and 11.7 kmc; vswr less than 1.15, except 1.15-1.20 between 11.6 and 11.7 kmc; variation in forward loss less than 0.1 db for any 20 mc channel."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Johnson noise is caused by the fluctuation of charges or polarizable molecules in lossy materials. Its magnitude can best be calculated by means of statistical mechanics, which tells us that each degree of freedom must have associated with it an energy of  kT. This leads to the usual expressions for Johnson noise, including the fact that the available thermal noise power, from a resistor, a lossy network, a lossy dielectric, or an antenna is always kTB. In the case of a resistor, network, or dielectric, T is the temperature of the lossy material. In the case of an antenna, T is the average temperature of the environment which the antenna \"sees.\" Consistent with the power kTB available from an antenna, there is a particular density of radiation in space which is a function of temperature and frequency. Noise figure is defined in terms of Johnson noise. Shot noise, due to the discrete nature of electron flow, is generally distinct from Johnson noise, although in some electron devices the expression for the noise in the electron flow has the same form as that for Johnson noise. When the noise in electron flow is greater or less than pure shot noise, the motions of the electrons must be in some degree correlated. In an electron stream of low noise, the random interception of a fraction of the electron flow can reduce the correlation and increase the noise. Johnson noise and shot noise have a flat frequency spectrum."
"A tutorial exposition is given of various analytical concepts and techniques of proved value in calculating the response of electrical systems to noise waves. The relevant probability theory is reviewed with illustrative examples. Topics from statistics discussed include probability density, moments, stationary and ergodic processes, characteristic functions, semi-invariants, the central limit theorem, the Gaussian process, correlation, and power spectra. It is shown how the theory can be applied to cases of noise and signal subjected to such operations as filtering, rectification, periodic sampling, envelope detection, phase detection, and frequency detection."
"After some general remarks regarding the proper place of transient techniques in the field of video measurements, suitable waveforms and equipment are described. Methods of measurement and evaluation of response curves are discussed. An attempt is made to estimate the effect of small variations in the transfer function on the transient response. A tentative list of criteria is prepared which, though pot fully defining the transient response, may often serve as a useful and satisfactory description."
"This paper discusses the problems involved in designing traveling-wave tubes in the range of pulsed powers of the order of a megawatt. Suitable circuits are described, together with their advantages and limitations. In general, the all-metal structures described are capable of dissipating high average powers, have good impedances at the required voltages (100-kv range), but at a sacrifice in bandwidth. Nevertheless, this class of traveling-wave tube is useful where bandwidths of 10 to 20 per cent, not obtainable from klystrons of equivalent power outputs, are of interest. The problems of tube construction and tube design are discussed. Results of tests on an experimental model tube are described, showing good agreement with available theory. A gain uniformity of 3 db over a 9 per cent bandwidth, with power outputs of 300 kw pulsed have been obtained using attenuators of nonoptimum design. Better performance should be obtainable with further improvements in beam focusing and coupler design. Higher power levels with same effliciency should be possible, by designing the tube to operate at higher potentials."
"Electrostatic deflection from a common center is possible by the use of electrostatic yokes, or Deflectrons. These consist of a 4-terminal pattern, printed on the inside of glass cylinders or cones. An analysis of the pattern geometry is presented which gives simple expressions for deflection factor of electrostatic yokes. The theory also accounts for a small residual noncircularity of scan, and gives clues as to its correction. Equipment to test tube performance is described, including ultraviolet mapping and electronic detection of the axis. The most suitable type of post-accelerator for use with Deflectrons employs a long drift space, bounded by a metallic mask, and confines the high gradient to a narrow region close to the screen. It is shown that this mask intensifier suffers from secondary emission. This effect can be effectively suppressed by an insulating coating of the first surface of the mask, while connecting the support metal to a lower potential than the drift space. The resulting double layer of charges prevents the escape of secondaries towards the screen. This barrier-mask intensifier permits post-acceleration ratios of 10 to 1 without loss of deflection."
"Feedthrough capacitors built of a multiplicity of stacked disks are practically useless filter elements because they behave essentially like tubular feedthrough capacitors, namely exhibiting pronounced parallel resonances. However, if washers of suitable, lossy ferrite are interspaced in the structure, the effective coupling impedance for the lower frequencies is identical with the 1/C, whereas at medium and higher frequencies the effective coupling impedance is reduced by a factor of 1,000 to 10,000 or more, as compared with the best discoidal feedthrough capacitors available now. In fact, the effective coupling impedance is so low that resonances of the disks (even large ones) themselves become negligible. The advantage of the discussed structures is the absence of dc losses. The mathematical theory for all cases above is developed by matrix algebra and verified by experiments. The selection of the correct ferrite is analyzed. The practical significance of this development for extremely effective miniaturized low-pass filters is presented."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This paper presents very briefly the nature and origin of the International Geophysical Year, and in more detail two areas of special interest: rocket studies of the upper atmosphere, and satellite studies. It brings out the scientific basis for the satellite program and the development of U. S. interest in launching a satellite for scientific observations. The present status of the program is commented on briefly."
"Sometime during the coming geophysical year (July, 1957 to December, 1958) an attempt will be made to launch an artificial satellite in an orbit around the earth. The Office of Naval Research has been assigned the responsibility to perform this task and has established Project VANGUARD in the Naval Research Laboratory to carry it out. The Department of Defense turned to the Navy to manage this triservice project because of its extensive experience in upper-atmosphere research with rockets. The satellite which Project VANGUARD intends to launch in an orbit is a small one, yet must be a research vehicle. The National Committee for the IGY of the National Academy of Sciences has established a panel which is concerned with the nature of the scientific experiments to be done in the vehicle. Work is in progress not only on the vehicles, but on the experiments to be done in the satellite. Experiments conducted in an artificial earth satellite circling the earth in the outer tenuous region of our atmosphere can greatly increase our knowledge of the atmosphere-its structure, its constituents, and the powerful radiations both electromagnetic and corpuscular that impinge upon it and help determine its state."
"The VANGUARD satellite launching vehicle is a three-stage rocket of which the first two stages are guided and the third stage is maintained in a fixed orientation while it is firing. The first stage, an improved Viking, serves primarily to raise the remaining stages to altitude. The second stage, another liquid-propellant rocket, contains the guidance for the three-stage vehicle and, in addition, supplies some of the propulsive energy. The third stage, a solid-propellant rocket, is ejected from the second stage at orbital altitude and provides about half of the required orbital velocity. The VANGUARD launching vehicle system was chosen from a number of possible two- and three-stage vehicle combinations. It represents the smallest satellite launching vehicle consistent with the present state of rocket development."
"Some of the problems and general planning in connection with telemetering of earth satellite launching vehicles are briefly presented. Of major importance is the propagation of signals over extended ranges, the diversity of requirements for both the test and mission phases, and the necessity for the use of reliable light-weight equipment. In treating these problems an attempt has been made to outline their general scope rather than give a detailed technical exposition. Some sidelights on the role that telemetering plays in a rocket program have been mentioned as appropriate background."
"The next round of problems created by an earth satellite after it is placed in its orbit are those associated with proving that the satellite is in fact orbiting, and the measurement of its orbit. The magnitude of these problems for optical methods is discussed, and the Minitrack system developed by the Naval Research Laboratory for acquisition and tracking of the satellite by radio techniques is described. A sub-miniature radio transmitter operating continuously for at least two weeks will be provided within the satellite to illuminate antennas at ground tracking stations. By phase-comparison techniques, these ground stations will measure the angular position of the satellite as it passes through the antenna beam, recording its \"signature\" automatically without the need for initial tracking information. Analysis of this signature will provide the complete angular history of the satellite passage in the form of direction cosines and time. These data will be transmitted immediately to a central computing facility for the computation and publication of ephemerides. Specific ephemerides will be transmitted to each principal optical tracking station to provide acquisition data to them. The probable tracking accuracies and the major problems associated with the Minitrack System are described."
"The tracking of artificial earth satellites is here viewed as an integrated research program. The physical and orbital specifications of the first US satellites are assumed in the tracking program planned under an assignment made to the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory by the IGY Satellite Committee of the US National Academy of Sciences. The optical program involves early acquisition tracking by (radio or) visual means, frequent orbit calculations, ephemeris predictions for the precise photographic tracking, the establishment and operation of 12 to 15 precision photographic stations over the earth, operation of a communication net, and both current and final analysis of the positional data for important geophysical results. Such results include density determinations in the high atmosphere, geodetic system calibrations over the earth, shape of the geoid, isostasy investigations, and other geodetic studies to a precision an order of magnitude greater than presently possible."
"Planning for the fullest possible scientific utilization of the initial group of U. S. satellites is proceeding actively under the supervision of the National Academy of Sciences and its appropriate Panels and Working Groups. An inert satellite, tracked from an array of ground stations, will provide a means of unprecedented precision for the determination of the geodetic figure of the earth, for the transoceanic linkage of mapping networks, and for the measurement of atmospheric density at very high altitudes. A variety of physical observations with active, on-board instrumentation has been considered. The highest \"flight-priority\" has been assigned to the following:a) the monitoring of the intensity of the solar ultraviolet; b) the monitoring of cosmic ray intensity and the measurement of its latitude, longitude, and altitude dependence; c) the measurement of the size spectrum and the number density of interplanetary dust; and d) the measurement of the earth's optical albedo over large areas. A concerted attack on the technical problems of successful on-board observations is being made."
"The synthesis of a current sawtooth from a limited number of first harmonics has been studied. It was found that good linearity is easier to obtain than a fast retrace. Scan distortion may be held below 5 per cent over 80 per cent of scan, by adding only 4 harmonics in a \"least square\" proportion. Fast flyback, on the other hand, requires 8 harmonics to be usable for commercial television. Several practical systems for resonant sweep have been tested. All circuits used shock excitation of multiresonant networks by pulses of current. Both pentodes and small hydrogen thyratrons were used successfully. The best multiresonator for synthetic sweep is a delay-line, 3 per cent shorter than a halfwave long and shorted at the far end. To minimize dispersion, a \"slanting wafer\" type of construction has been developed which permits control of mutual without effect on self-inductance."
"A docile amplifier is one that remains stable when connected to any passive network of a specified class. A simplified geometrical approach is used to derive the docility criteria for passive-end-loading, ideal-transformer feedback, bilateral passive feedback, and arbitrary passive feedback."
"The concept of \"bandwidth\" is commonly used as a measure of the range of frequencies over which a network has an approximately constant gain. In this note the notion of bandwidth is extended to networks with arbitrary transfer characteristics. Specifically, it is defined in terms of the maximum allowable variance of the output of a network (to within a multiplicative constant) from that of an \"ideal\" network, the input being a band-limited signal. The maxum bandwidth of such an input signal is termed the bandwidth of the network under consideration."
"The Bethe-Schwinger cavity perturbation theory is applied to measurements of the microwave dielectric constants and tensor permeabilities of small spherical samples of ferrites. For the dielectric constant measurements, a cavity opened at a position of minimum transverse wall currents is used. A frequency-shift method is used for measuring the real part of the dielectric constant and a cavity-transmission method is used for measurement of the loss tangent. Circularly-polarized cavity methods yield effective scalar permeabilities of which the real and the imaginary parts are measured in a manner similar to the dielectric measurements. These scalar permeabilities yield sufficient information to describe completely the tensor components. Experimental data are given for a polycrystalline magnesium-manganese ferrite, to illustrate the techniques described."
"Radar angle tracking noise, such as that due to angular and amplitude scintillation of the target echo, is increased by the response of the receiver agc (automatic gain control) to the low frequency components of the fading of the echo envelope. An increase in angle tracking noise spectral density by a factor of two to three is representative of what can happen when the radar echo envelope is approximately Rayleigh distributed. This phenomenon has been investigated by analog simulation of the agc, both for an ordinary linear filter in the feedback path and for a nonlinear filter with quick attack and slow release in the loop. Since the increase in tracking noise decreases monotonically with increasing agc time constant, an analysis is presented to describe a particular basic problem which requires the agc time constant to be kept short, namely, the transient rise in average signal strength encountered by a radar when closing rapidly on a target. In fixing the agc time constant, a compromise must be reached between increase in tracking noise and the transient increase in mean output signal strength. Whatever considerations motivate a particular choice of agc time constant, the effect of the agc on angle noise spectral density can be determined from the curves presented. The results obtained show that the use of the nonlinear filter with quick attack and slow release does actually produce the desired result of reducing the transient rise in output signal strength while keeping the increase in noise spectral density constant."
"The well-known theory of fourpoles only comprises passive fourpoles and active fourpoles with internal sources of sinusoidal currents or voltages of defined frequencies. This theory is now completed for fourpoles with internal noise sources. Simple equivalent circuits are derived for such networks. They consist of the original but noise-free fourpole cascaded with a preceding noise fourpole in which all noise-sources are concentrated. The latter contains the equivalent noise conductance G., the equivalent noise resistance Rn and the complex correlation admittance Ycor. With these quantities the noise behavior of any desired fourpole can be described sufficiently. In particular it is possible to calculate the noise figure F and its dependence on the matching conditions to the signal source of a single fourpole or a group of cascaded fourpoles. The methods of experimental determination of the elements of the noise fourpoles are discussed. The same theory is also useful for mixer-circuits as well as fortraveling-wave tubes and transistors, as application results are given for grid controlled electron tubes."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"The Secretary's Report is published so the membership may be informed of the more important factors affecting the operation of Institute. Topics covered include membership issues, publication of the Proceedings, Sections news, Awards, finance matters, death announcements, and reviews of recent meetings"
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides a listing of abstract numbers, Proceedings issue, and pages for the articles published in this volume of the Proceedings."
"A name followed by \"and\" is that of the first author of a jointly written paper, while the word \"with\" indicates that the name indexed is that of the second author."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1955."
"A selection of the journals which are regularly scanned for content of interest to our readers is given here, together with the addresses of publishers or editorial offices and the abbreviations of titles as used in the Abstracts and References. Applications for copies of any journal should be made to the addresses given. The full title of each journal is given first and is followed by the address, the abbreviated title being shown within parentheses. In a few cases the nature of a journal is indicated, where neither the title nor the address shows it clearly."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The author discusses the rationale behind the recent special issues of The Proceedings. In addition, he comments on two actions recently taken by the IRE Board of Directors. The first reflects the conviction that the grade of Fellow should be bestowed only when the candidate has shown active interest in IRE affairs for some time prior to his candidacy. Accordingly, the Bylaws are currently being amended to provide that nominations of United States residents for Fellow will be considered only if the nominee has attained the grade of Senior Member and has held membership in the Institute, in the Senior Member or some lower grade, for at least five years. Since election to Fellow is an honor to which all members aspire, this change puts new force behind upgrading of membership. Every member who has ambitions in respect to the Fellow grade, either to achieve it himself or to nominate a colleague, should now be on notice that upgrading to Senior Member is a necessary preliminary. The effective date of the change will be set by the Board at its August meeting. The second action relates to the stability of the IRE as represented in its monetary reserves. The Auditor's Report for 1955 reveals that the IRE"
"After an introductory account of how the URSI and IRE began, almost simultaneously, in their respective fields of science and engineering, the paper describes how URSI functions. The system of National Committees is described and in particular the USA National Committee. Examples of URSI accomplishments are given. URSI-CCIR relations and URSI-IRE relations are explained. Future prospects are discussed."
"A new type of electrolytic capacitor has been developed which provides a valuable supplement to the capacitors previously available to the circuit designer. In these new capacitors, a solid semi-conductor replaces the usual aqueous electrolyte. Because the materials are all inorganic nonvolatile solids, no hermetic seal is required for ordinary applications. Compared to other electrolytics, these capacitors are superior in low temperature characteristics and in shelf-aging. Their small size makes them especially suitable for transistor circuitry. They are in limited commercial production and are being used in a new rural carrier system."
"An analysis is presented of a traveling-wave tube in which unmodulated dc current is continuously introduced along the length of the tube and is removed after traveling a fixed distance in the presence of the circuit field. This change in the dc current distribution as compared with that of a conventional traveling-wave tube results in three forward growing waves instead of one, one growing exponentially as in the conventional tube, one growing linearly, and one growing as the square of distance. Expressions for the over-all gain of a forward-wave amplifier of this type are derived as a function of the usual parameters plus an additional parameter related to the distance traveled by electrons in the interaction space. The power output of this device is found to depend on saturation of individual current elements rather than of the beam as a whole, with the result that, after saturation is once reached, the power output is independent of input power. An estimate of the value of the saturation power level is obtained from the linear analysis."
"A transverse current traveling-wave tube employing a flat helix and a skew beam has been built and tested both as a forward wave amplifier and as a backward wave oscillator. The tube operates as an amplifier over the frequency range from 1 to 2 kmc with a power output of the order of 30 milliwatts. Tests on the tube indicated a gain vs voltage characteristic markedly different from that obtained with a conventional traveling-wave tube, particularly with respect to the wide range of current and voltage over which a large amount of attenuation in excess of the cold insertion loss of the circuit was observed. The general shapes of the curves of gain vs current and the gain and saturation power level vs frequency are as predicted from theory and display significant differences from calculated curves for an equivalent conventional tube. The nonlinear behavior of the tube, as a function of input signal level, follows the general pattern predicted from qualitative arguments. The output power is constant to within 0.05 db over an input power range of 20 to 30 db. With two signals of different frequencies supplied to the input of the tube, a region of operation was observed in which, with the input amplitude of one signal fixed, the output amplitudes of both signals were independent of the amplitude of the other (variable) input signal."
"An analysis is made of the propagation of spacecharge waves in an axially symmetric electron beam originating at an emitting surface threaded by an arbitrary amount of magnetic flux. The propagation characteristics, for the fundamental radial mode with no azimuthal variations, are expressed in terms of the plasma-frequency reduction factor, graphs of which are shown. Approximate methods of evaluating the propagation characteristics of a beam in a helix are given, expressed in terms of the usual traveling-wave tube space-charge parameter Q and impedance parameter K."
"Two independent equations relating the average powers at the different frequencies in nonlinear inductors and capacitors are derived. These equations are a consequence only of the assumption of a single-valued characteristic for the nonlinear element. They are independent of the particular shape of this characteristic, of the power levels at the various frequencies, and of the external circuit in which the nonlinear reactor is connected. These general energy relations give information regarding the gain and stability of nonlinear reactor modulators and demodulators, and consequently of magnetic and dielectric amplifiers, without requirng detailed information about these devices. The utility of these equations is illustrated by discussing the gain and stability of the simplest types of nonlinear reactor modulators and demodulators and harmonic generators. This analysis for nonlinear inductors and capacitors is extended to include the effects of hysteresis in the nonlinear characteristic in the special case where the operating hysteresis loop is no more than double-valued. A similar analysis applied to nonlinear resistors yields two equations relating the reactive powers at the different frequencies, rather than the real powers as above. The interpretation of reactive power under these conditions is not clear."
"This paper presents a method for investigating the transfer functions of RC low-pass networks. The procedure involves the use of the concept of potential analogy and the technique of conformal transformation. The poles and zeros are arranged in a certain symmetrical fashion in the transformed plane and on this plane the frequency characteristic may be written in closed form. The frequency characteristics obtained by this method have equal-ripple variation inside the pass band. By mathematical manipulations, the several quantities that are essential in describing the quality of each frequency characteristic; i. e., the pass-band tolerance, the stopband-passband ratio and the stop-band attenuation, may be expressed in terms of several geometrical quantities in the transformed plane and the parameters of the transformation function. Thus, the design of this group of network functions may be accomplished by adjusting the geometric dimensions in the transformed plane and the transformation functions. The transformation used here is a function that involves elliptic functions. Some design charts which are helpful in the selections of these values are given."
"A way to enhance Writing gain at a glance. Dr. Tustin extended Proof appended. Examples illustrative Pray not frustrative."
"This paper describes a method of matrix analysis, developed by Luce and Perry for the study of sociometric group structures and cliques. These concepts are applied to telecommunication networks. Two new traffic matrices are also suggested which, in combination with the connectivity matrices, yield quantitative indications of the incoming and outgoing traffic. Various useful concepts are pointed out and a number of applications are illustrated by numerical examples."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The listed issues of IRE Transactions have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc., 1 East 79th Street, New York, NY, USA. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given below."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Applications of heat transfer to electronic components and devices are presented and discussed. The major objectives are to review the state of the art in such applications and to indicate the need for a better grasp of the science of heat transfer in aiding the creative engineering of new electronic devices operating at extreme conditions of temperature, heat flux, air density, etc. The recent rapid growth of heat-transfer applications to electronics is analyzed in terms of the changing specifications resulting from the introduction of the supersonic and hypersonic aircraft and missiles. The general thermal problem of a given piece of electronic equipment is discussed and analyzed in terms of different modes of heat transfer. A simple method of comparing heat removal by means of natural convection, radiation, forced convection, and evaporative cooling is presented in chart form. The design philosophy of heat-transfer applications to industrial electronic equipment is discussed. Four specific illustrations of industrial applications of heat transfer to electronic components and equipment are presented. The first describes use of heat transfer and fluid mechanics to predict accurately the thermal performance of a newly developed vacuum tube which dissipates 25 kw. The second presents the analysis and some samples of the cold-plate technique used to cool highly compact miniaturized electronic equipment. The third example discusses the recent development of high temperature vacuum tubes, which can operate reliably at ambient temperatures in excess of 250C. The final illustration discusses evaporatively-cooled magnetic components, in particular, transformers, by means of fluorochemical dielectrics."
"This paper summarizes the present-day knowledge of ionospheric effects at vhf and uhf, with the exception of forward scattering of vhf radio waves by the ionosphere. The seven effects covered in the paper are: Radar Echoes from Aurora, Radar Echoes from Meteors, The Faraday Effect and Radar Echoes from the Moon, Radio Noise of Auroral Origin, Absorption of Radio Waves by the Ionosphere, Refraction of Radio Waves by the Ionosphere, and the Scintillation of the Radio Stars. Each ionospheric effect has in turn been divided into separate subtopics, and the main results are given in these subsections, with particular emphasis upon providing references to the original papers. In this way the reader wishing to know the answer to a specific problem will speedily be able to find a summary of the main published results in the field, and also be able to learn which papers deal with the particular topic of interest."
"A class of frequency-selective networks is described that combines the properties of a directional coupler and a conventional filter. These networks, which will be called \"directional filters,\" are particularly suited for combining or separating signals of different frequencies in communication systems, for multiplexing several equipments connected to a single antenna, etc. A signal entering one arm of the network will be transferred with essentially zero loss to a second arm over a desired channel of frequencies, while at other frequencies the signal will emerge with little loss from a third arm. Over the entire frequency range the fourth arm is isolated and the first arm is nonreflecting. Many new types of directional filters have been found and are described in this paper. Several of these are particularly easy to design and build in strip or coaxial line, while others lead to compact, economical structures in waveguide. Several lumped-constant circuits are also given. Design information and experimental data are included in this paper."
"A new microwave standing-wave-ratio (or reflection coefficient) measurement technique, apparently suitable for standards and other high precision work, is described. The technique requires that the phase angle of the unknown reflection coefficient be subjected to arbitrary, known variations-as is possible with a sliding load, for example. Accurate measurement of suitable. sliding loads furnishes standards, and with the aid of comparison techniques, enables indirect measurement of arbitrary unknowns. Generator and detector are connected to two arms of a three-arm waveguide junction. Tuning elements in the junction are (desirably) adjusted for small reflection looking into the third arm, to which the unknown connects. Observation of the detector response vs variation of phase of the unknown yields a curve, similar to a standing-wave pattern, from which the unknown is determinable by procedures that are given. The technique has the advantages of 1) being amenable to rigorous theoretical analysis, 2) enabling the attainment of heavy coupling to the detector without simultaneous severe distortion of the response pattern, and 3) being, in a sense explained in the text, fundamentally simpler than the conventional slotted-line technique."
"In the past, quartz crystals have been used extensively to control single frequencies. This paper describes a circuit where a quartz crystal exercises considerable control over a continuously variable frequency spectrum. The circuit is characterized by multiloop feedback, which enables oscillation to be maintained at three frequencies, with the corresponding voltages confined to certain branches of the circuit and coupled to each other through three mixers. The frequencies of oscillation, to be called f1, f2, and f3, are determined by zero phase shift conditions in the feedback loops and by one frequency condition, f1+f2 = f3. The frequency f3 is restricted by a quartz crystal resonator, whereas the frequencies f1 and f2 are tunable in such a manner, that as f1increases, f2 decreases and vice versa. The LC resonators which control f1 and f2 drift in the same direction when the ambient conditions change. Such a drift cannot influence f1 and f2, since the latter can change only when the LC resonators shift in the opposite direction. The presence of a quartz crystal in the feedback loop also improves the phase stability of the circuit. An experimental model has been tested, and shows a thirty to hundredfold reduction of the frequency drift with temperature, excellent short and long term stability and a remarkably small initial frequency drift with switching on."
"Radar return from the rough surface of the wind disturbed sea is a source of noise that affects the over-all signal-to-noise ratio of radars operating over water. This paper presents the results of an analysis showing some limiting values of the effective radar scattering area per unit area of the sea surface (0) vs radar depression angle () for perfectly smooth and perfectly rough surfaces. Available experimental data are shown to be consistent with the theoretical limits."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This paper describes a single-gun cathode-ray display system (the Apple System) for color television receivers based on the phenomenon of secondary emission. An index signal, derived from a secondary emissive structure built into the screen of the tube, continuously indicates the position of the scanning spot relative to the color phosphor structure. This positional information is combined with the color television signal, and the combined signal modulates the scanning spot in amplitude and phase in such a manner that the spot sequentially illuminates the primary colors in the appropriate amounts and proportions to reproduce the intended scene. This paper describes the general features of the system and the philosophy behind its development, and the derivation of the index signal and its utilization in the color-processing and grid-drive circuits."
"This paper describes the Apple color picture tube, its dimensions, materials of construction, deflection and focus systems, and the geometry and deposition of the phosphor and secondary-emissive screen materials. The construction and operation of the electron gun, which produces two independent beams of very small cross section from a single cathode, are described in detail. Life test data and pilot production experience are discussed."
"This paper reviews the components and circuits of a developmental color television receiver utilizing the Apple type of display. The block diagram of the complete receiver is presented, together with detailed diagrams of circuits peculiar to the display, i.e., the index signal amplifier, color signal processing, high-voltage, horizontal sweep, and focus circuits. Photographs of the chassis layout and electron optical assembly are presented. The problem of integrating the circuits is outlined and typical receiver performance figures are stated."
"This paper discusses possible directions of improvement in the NTSC color television standards. These are aimed at minor modifications of the transmitted signal which allow the use of simpler color receivers with more accurate resolution in colored areas. Compatibility also appears likely to be improved by one of the features presented, that is, monochrome receivers would display improved picture quality. The modifications are specifically selected to permit color receivers designed for the unmodified standards to display satisfactory pictures, particularly including correct large-area color. Since the system is essentially defined by the nominal form of receiver which reproduces the transmitted picture in accordance with the signal specification (the reference monitor), emphasis is on changes affecting the form of receiver."
"The paper describes a new system of fm radar by which both the range and the speed of the target can be accurately measured. The \"fixed error,\" which is a characteristic of fm radar apparatus now in use, has been eliminated, affording correct measurement of ranges, even if they are very short. The functioning of the new system has been investigated experimentally and proven to be very successful. Consequently, the author in cooperation with the Hasler Laboratories in Bern, Switzerland, developed a low-range airplane altimeter patterned after the new system."
"An investigation is made of the limits imposed by receiver noise on the accuracy with which the angular position of a target can be determined by a pulsed search radar. Using a result in the theory of statistical estimation, a lower bound is derived for the standard deviation of regular unbiased estimates of target angular position, for a large class of methods of angular position determination; the lower bound depends on scan rate, pulse repetition rate, beamwidth, beam shape, and signal-to-noise ratio. A similar analysis is made of the limits on angular accuracy imposed by a combination of receiver noise and one particular type of target cross section fluctuation. Operations which can be performed on the received signal to form an estimate of target angular position, the standard deviation of which approximately attains the theoretical lower bound, are discussed. The relation between the estimation of angular position and the problem of target detection is discussed. A graphical presentation of the main results is given."
"The development of a cw klystron oscillator as a low-noise transmitter for the 8-mm band is described, and details are given of its performance. The power in the electron stream is 350 watts (0.1 ampere at 3,500 volts) and the output power 12 w. Special features include a design for a bakeout temperature of 700C, using molybdenum-sealing aluminosilicate glass, and a high convergence electron-optical system, permitting the use of a sprayed-oxide cathode with 1000-hour life."
"Given the maxium size of any overshoot or under-shoot of the step response of a network whose system function is positive real, a lower bound on the rise time from zero to the final value is developed. Similarly lower bounds on the settling time are also derived. These results are improvements over previously published results. They are special cases of a general theorem which bounds the unit step response, A(t), for 0  t <  when this response is bounded by (1)r for t  where  is a positive real number and r is the final value of the unit step response."
"The design, fabrication, and electrical characteristics of silicon p-n-p-n transistors with >1 for use as switches is discussed. The increase of alpha with injection level can be used to construct two terminal p-n-p-n switches. The high impedance characteristic has an impedance determined chiefly by the capacitance of the junctions. This capacity is of the order of tens of micromicrofarads. The low impedance portion of the switching characteristics has a slope resistance of a few ohms and a total voltage drop of approximately one volt. Methods of fabrication include suitable combinations of solid diffusion and alloying. Possible applications of p-n-p-n switches include function generators, photorelay, and talking path switches."
"Design principles for semiconductor diodes are derived from the analysis of idealized p-n junctions. The analysis gives the superheterodyne conversion matrix and the large-signal admittance in terms of the small-signal diffusion admittances. Structures that minimize minority-carrier storage give minimum conversion loss under matched conditions in converting a high frequency to a low frequency, and are useful in logic circuits of computers. Examples are the emitter-base diode of a transistor and a small bonded or point contact. Amplification and improved power-handling capabilities can be obtained in converting a low frequency to a high frequency, if the geometry favors storage of minority carriers near the junction. Such structures can also be used as pulse amplifiers."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists the chairmen of the various Professional groups along with their contact information."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Neither airborne self-contained nor ground-based air-navigation systems can by themselves completely meet the requirements of present day aircraft for both accuracy and continuity or positional and steering data. It is shown how dead-reckoning, providing continuity and reliability through the use of air-derived acceleration or velocity data, combined with intermittent ``fixing'' by employment of accurate position data obtained through the use of ground and stellar referenced sources, can increase operational capability without ``pressing the state of the art'' in any of the components of a system. Methods of inserting position fixes and of instrumenting the associated wind-computation and wind-memory functions are described and system errors are analyzed."
"Neither airborne self-contained nor ground-based air-navigation systems can by themselves completely meet the requirements of present day aircraft for both accuracy and continuity or positional and steering data. It is shown how dead-reckoning, providing continuity and reliability through the use of air-derived acceleration or velocity data, combined with intermittent \"fixing\" by employment of accurate position data obtained through the use of ground and stellar referenced sources, can increase operational capability without \"pressing the state of the art\" in any of the components of a system. Methods of inserting position fixes and of instrumenting the associated wind-computation and wind-memory functions are described and system errors are analyzed."
"As requirements for automaticity cause airborne electronic systems to grow in complexity, reliability tends to become a limiting factor to system success. Because of the small probability that a large number of components will all operate successfully at once, even though individual reliabilities are high, complex systems are inherently unreliable. Efforts to better system reliability through improvement of component reliability rapidly reach the point of diminishing returns. A more fruitful solution to the problem is the redundant use of parts of the system in such a way that the function of a malfunctioning assembly is assumed by another assembly. The ``probability of no failure'' barrier is by-passed by this method, and a large improvement of in-flight reliability can be obtained with relatively small increase of system complexity. The potential of method is illustrated by a reliability analysis of a theoretical system, its application in design of a system is outlined, and techniques of detecting system failures and initiating corrective action are discussed."
"In the preparation of an evaluation program for several pictorial navigation displays, developed under sponsorship of the Air Navigation Development Board, it was necessary to make a study of possible operational advantages of the use of such displays. When compared to conventional symbolic instrumentation for displaying navigation information, the pictorial displays appear to have three primary advantages: 1) Continuous usable navigation information is supplied to the pilot in all airspace within range of the ground radio facilities. 2) Navigation workload on the flight crew is materially reduced. 3) A reduction in number of ground radio aids should be possible if most aircraft were equipped with pictorial navigation displays. Brief description of several pictorial computers is included."
"The ability of aircraft cap-type high frequency antennas to act as efficient radiators is a subject of much current interest. In most instances the fixed-wire type hf antenna is incorrectly assumed to be superior to flush cap-type antennas. In this paper a performance comparison of five different hf communication antenna configurations for a large high speed aircraft is presented. These antennas include two fixed-wire types, a conventional tail-cap type, and two ``L-gap'' tail-cap configurations. The impedance vs frequency characteristic is explored over the 2-24 mc range for each antenna. The antenna system efficiency of each antenna is computed using the antenna impedance characteristic and considering the transmission line, coupling network, antenna feed and lightning protection system, and the antenna radiation pattern. This antenna system efficiency is then used as a basis for comparison of the five antennas."
"The ability of aircraft cap-type high frequency antennas to act as efficient radiators is a subject of much current interest. In Most instances the fixed-wire type hf antenna is incorrectly assumed to be superior to flush cap-type antennas. In this paper a Performance comparison of five different hf communication antenna configurations for a large high speed aircraft is presented. These antennas include two fixed-wire types, a conventional tail-cap type, and two \"L-gap\" tail-cap configurations. The impedance vs frequency characteristic is explored over the 2-24 mc range for each antenna. The antenna system efficiency of each antenna is computed using the antenna impedance characteristic and considering the transmission line, coupling network, antenna feed and lightning protection system, and the antenna radiation pattern. This antenna system efficiency is then used as a basis for comparison of the five antennas."
"The radio beam coupler system has been recently developed as an en route navigation and approach aid for modem transport and bombing aircraft. It is applicable to both military and commercial operations. The system comprises an electronic amplifier and cockpit switching elements for coupling the automatic pilot to VOR and ILS radio facilities. Accuracy and efficiency of control is improved over previous systems while automatic sequencing and sensing simplify the human pilot's operating procedures. Design features such as magnetic components and hermetic sealing enhance the reliability of the amplifier unit."
"The radio beam coupler system has been recently developed as an en route navigation and approach aid for modern transport and bombing aircraft. It is applicable to both military an commercial operations. The system comprises an electronic amplifier and cockpit switching elements for coupling the automatic pilot to VOR and ILS radio facilities. Accuracy and efficiency of control is improved over previous systems while automatic sequencing and sensing simpligy the human pilot's operating procedures. Design features such as magnetic components and hermetic sealing enhance the reliability of the amplifier unit."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper briefly describes the air traffic simulation facilities presently installed at the CAA Technical Development and Evaluation Center (TDEC). It then reviews some important developments which have been achieved through the use of these facilities in the study of terminal area and en route area traffic control problems."
"The traffic-handling capability of a communication system used for aircraft control during airport traffic control, ground-controlled approach, and ground-controlled landing is studied. The system is treated as a multiloop servomechanism which includes both ground and airborne equipment. The factors which affect the location of the communications link in the system are discussed. These include message rate, airborne equipment or ground measurements necessary, flight geometry, and flight safety. It is shown that the minimum message rate is possible if the quantity transmitted is the same as the flight motion desired. Several methods are presented for increasing the traffic-handling capability by reducing the message rate. One of these introduces controlled blacklash into the outermost feedback loop and automatically determines the minimum message rate while navigating to a point. A dynamic analysis is used to determine the limitations of the method. The methods presented are illustrated by showing their application to automatic flight control during ground-controlled approach and ground-controlled landing."
"The traffic-handling capability of a communication system used for aircraft control during airport traffic control, ground-controlled approach, and ground-controlled landing is studied. The system is treated as a multiloop servomechanism which includes both ground and airborne equipment. The factors which affect the location of the communications link in the system are discussed. These include message rate, airborne equipment or ground measurements necessary, flight geometry, and flight safety. It is shown that the minimum message rate is possible if the quantity transmitted is the same as the flight motion desired. Several methods are presented for increasing the traffic-handling capability by reducing the message rate. One of these introduces controlled blacklash into the outermost feedback loop and automatically determines the minimum message rate while navigating to a point. A dynamic analysis is used to determine the limitations of the method. The methods presented are illustrated by showing their application to automatic flight control during ground-controlled approach and ground-controlled landing."
"Means are described for reducing the complexity of the electronics usually required in airbore navigational computing systems to determine true free-air temperature and true air speed. The vortex thermometer, when equipped with a linear resistance-temperature element, permits use of a linear potentiometer in a simple digital null-balancing servo. The vortex thermometer eliminates corrections which are otherwise needed for dynamic heating due to the speed of the plane. If true free-air temperature is measured along with the temperature of a probe having a known higher recovery factor, the difference may be combined directly using linear resistance thermometers to give an indication of true air speed without use of either pitot or static pressure measurements. Mach number and altitude may also be computed from these temperature data, together with pitot pressure, but without measurement of static pressure which is usually subject to considerably more error than pitot pressure."
"Wide-bandwidth measurement equipment is used where both long and short time accuracy is required. Present sensing devices can be broken into two classes, namely those that function accurately over long time measurements and conversely those that indicate changes but are lacking long time stability. Pressure pickoffs and radars are examples that fall into the former class of devices while velocity pickoffs and accelerometers possess only short time accuracy. This paper presents a technique whereby both types of inputs are injected into a mixer whose output retains the good properties of each input while rejecting the inaccurate portions of the input data. The resultant output of the mixer is superior to either input, since it possesses both high and low frequency accuracy. A general method for solution of the mixer characteristic is given which indicates that complementary linear filters may be used to perform the mixing function. The system may be made dynamically exact, that is, the mixer has a unity transfer function and contributes no error in the absence of noise. The mixer parameters are chosen on the basis of minimizing the root mean square error in the output considering the noise inputs to the system. An illustrative example is given based on a Baro-Inertial Mixer using both pressure and inertial data to give accurate wide band vertical velocity as its output."
"Because of its conceptual simplicity, random modulation of the main bang is an attractive solution to the resolution problem in digital ranging. The accuracy of such a scheme in the presence of gate jitter has been analyzed in this paper and the results show that it can effectively reduce the resolution error."
"Because of its conceptual simplicity, random modulation of the main bang is an attractive solution to the resolution problem in digital ranging. The accuracy of such a scheme in the presence of gate jitter has been analyzed in this paper and the results show that it can effectively reduce the resolution error."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Most navigation systems proposed have been so radical as to require a revolution for their implementation. The system described herein would employ existing ground and airborne equipment with the addition of a small, new unit in the aircraft. This unit would employ only well-known circuits and techniques. The working of the system is explained, and data are presented on the accuracy to be expected."
"Most navigation systems proposed have been so radical as to require a revolution for their implementation. The system described herein would employ existing ground and airborne equipment with the addition of a small, new unit in the aircraft. This unit would employ only well-known circuits and techniques. The working of the system is explained, and data are presented on the accuracy to be expected."
"In order to meet operational requirements high pulse position accuracy is required for the reply-code pulses transmitted by the ATC Transponder. The use of a magnetostriction delay line as the primary delay element for positioning the constituent pulses of the reply code groups is discussed. The design of a magnetostriction delay line for this purpose is discussed and a method for remote selection of the reply codes is presented."
"The success of a complex airborne electronic equipment is highly dependent upon a well-planned and timely implemented field support program. The design engineer, however, plays a very fundamental and basic role and the fulfilment of his responsibilities is of major importance. In following good engineering design practice he must consider the requirements imposed by the field. Among these are packaging, the incorporation of self-testing circuitry and test points, and accessibility of adjustments and components, all of which contribute to ease of maintenance, thus reducing the turn around time of nonoperating equipment. Of equal importance is his analysis of field failure reports, reflecting where necessary any improvements into the design of the equipment."
"An electrically isolated probe mounted on an airframe extremity has been investigated as a means of exciting the airframe as a high-frequency antenna. The probe maintains most of the advantages of isolated structure or ``cap'' type antennas over fixed wires, and it does not require a break in basic airframe structure. Measurements have been made of radiation patterns and impedance of such a probe mounted at a number of positions on a B-47 airplane. Impedance characteristics at low frequencies depend strongly on the length of the probe and its location on the airframe, but not to any great degree on the shape of the airframe itself. At higher frequencies, however, the impedance indicates clearly the effects of various resonant modes of the airframe. Radiation pattern characteristics of these antennas are due primarily to excitation of the airframe and are modified by the probe itself only to the extent that the probe location influences the airframe modes which are excited."
"When an intensity-modulated cathode ray tube is fed by an electronic gamma-correction circuit to compensate for the tube power law, the over-all system may be interpreted as a linear filter. It is shown that if the electron distribution within the beam is Gaussian, then (for at least some applications) the corresponding equivalent filter has a Gaussian amplitude characteristic and zero phase shift. Thus, a recent radar tube, the 5FP14A, has a frequency response given by exp [-7.07f2] when used on a range of 30 nautical miles. (Here f is expressed in megacycles.) A similar result applies to this tube when used as a flying-spot scanner. If the radar video amplifier is to produce no degradation of this display it must be flat to a frequency 1.2v/w, where v is the sweep velocity and w the spot size. The desirable pulse duration is equal to the time required to sweep past a spot. Simple modifications of these relations are necessary if ground-range sweeps are used."
"Display evaluation by simulator methods is analyzed from the point of view of reducing the operational delays in producing an experimental display, providing an experimental system, and obtaining performance data. The techniques recommended to relieve the problem are: display synthesis, programmable facilities, automatic processing of syllabuses, flexible function generation and function sequencing, and the use of dc analog computers for real time performance measurements."
"Display evaluation by simulator methods is analyzed from the point of view of reducing the operational delays in producing an experimental display, providing an experimental system, and obtaining performance data. The techniques recommended to relieve the problem are: display synthesis, programmable facilities, automatic processing of syllabuses, flexible function generation and function sequencing, and the use of dc analog computers for real time performance measurements."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Through the years the art of aircraft control has progressed from the use of fundamental human observations that restricted operations to contact conditions, to modern flight instrumentation that permits the precise control of modern high speed, high performance aircraft under very restricted ceiling and visibility weather conditions. The story of improved flight instrumentation in this paper includes the evolutionary trend toward more stringent control requirements which has pointed up the limitations of pure human response and resulted in a philosophy that a system capable of greater accuracy must, in addition to providing a fine degree of instrumentation, take human characteristics into consideration. Through a discussion of the symbolic and pictorial approaches to providing the ideal flight instrumentation, the present trend toward combining the two approaches is explained and the features of a production system incorporating these modern concepts is described."
"It has long been realized that manual voice-radio and wire telephone communication facilities cannot meet the future requirements of aviation for air traffic control communication services. The operational requirements for an Air Traffic Control Signaling System (ATCSS) are discussed; the relative applicability of a number of existing and proposed communication systems are shown using an arbitrary but consistent rating method. Block diagrams are presented which cover the laboratory experimental equipment of the Melpar Visual Communication System (VCS). A typical sequence of events and their durations for ATCSS service is given. The main conclusion is that a direct viewed bright storage tube display method should be employed in the ATCSS airborne unit, rather than an electromechanical (or ``roller-wheel'') type of indicator system."
"The major advantages and disadvantages of adding the ninth harmonic to the fundamental bearing signal of the TACAN system are presented. The effects of this addition are discussed in terms of the improved system accuracy, particularly under conditions of adverse siting. TACAN azimuth error data that were collected in ready-to-use form by recently developed methods are presented. These data, which allow separation of the site error from the total system error, indicate the azimuth accuracy of the TACAN equipment."
"One method1 for determination of noise level in radar receivers involves the use of a calibrated signal generator for input voltage and use of a quadratic detector instead of the second detector of the radar receiver. By a related method, which is described in this paper, the rms noise level may be determined from the second detector output as a function of receiver input for any common type of second detector even though its response is not exactly quadratic. This method is justified mathematically, and in a practical application the noise level of a 600-mc receiver is determined as 11.2 microvolts (referred to input)."
"Automatic testing can be economically applied in the military electronic equipment business even though it is characterized by small production quantities, complexity of product, and rapid evolution of design changes. It has been the experience of the Light Military Electronic Equipment Department (LMEED) of General Electric that it is possible to determine an automatic test program of long range significance and still see immediate benefits, if the program is tailored to a sound understanding of the needs of the particular business involved. This article discusses the approach to automatic testing at LMEED, some of the equipment concepts involved, and the plans to further the program toward the goal of full automation of the test operation."
"Automatic testing can be economically applied in the military electronic equipment business even though it is characterized by small production quantities, complexity of product, and rapid evolution of design changes. It has been the experience of the Light Military Electronic Equipment Department (LMEED) of General Electric that it is possible to determine an automatic test program of long range significance and still see immediate benefits, if the program is tailored to a sound understanding of the needs of the particular business involved. This article discusses the approach to automatic testing at LMEED, some of the equipment concepts involved, and the plans to further the program toward the goal of full automation of the test operation."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"A comprehensive listing of the authors, articles and departments included in 1956."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In the design of cyclotron resonant systems, the voltage distribution along the accelerating electrodes (dees) is frequently desired. This paper describes an approximate method for obtaining this vsw. An experimental check of the method is included. In addition, data on Oak Ridge National Laboratory Cyclotrons are presented."
"It is very desirable to operate vacuum tubes in such a manner that the operation of the over-all circuit is essentially independent of large changes in tube characteristics. The technique of \"hard-bottoming\" of vacuum tubes in two-state circuits obtains operation that, in many cases, is unchanged until the vacuum tubes are almost completely inoperative by ordinary standards. Negative feedback has, of course, been used for many years to stabilize amplifier circuits, but the use of hard bottoming has not become as widespread. The Physical Electronics Group of the Physics Division, ORNL, has, over the last few years, applied the hard-bottoming principle to many circuits used in nuclear instrumentation. In scaling circuits, it represents as large a step forward in design as did the addition of coupling diodes by Higinbotham. Precision timing circuits are made possible by use of this principle. These applications are described."
"Operational and theoretical experience with the ORNL 44-inch and 63-inch cyclotrons is used in estimating the time variation of proton beam current passing through the rf field between the dees of the ORNL 44-inch cyclotron. The proton current appears to have a significant reactive component. This result is probably typical of most fixed frequency cyclotrons whose ions make 30-100 orbits in being accelerated to maximum radius. The study is briefly related to problems which may be encountered in the design of a fixed-frequency rf system capable of accelerating hundreds of kilowatts of ions to be used for a purpose such as the production of radioisotopes."
"Nuclear reactors for power production require essentially two control regimes-one for start-up and the other about design point power. The start-up regime requires controls and instrumentation for neutron flux. The power regime is one in which temperatures must be controlled. The Bell-Strauss simulator has been used successfully for development of neutron flux control equipment. Nuclear power plant simulation requires a more elaborate analog computer such as the present ORNL nuclear plant simulator. This computer has been used successfully for designing servo mechanisms for rod control, temperature regulation and heat dump control for power reactor designs. Some of these applications are described."
"The microtron (electron cyclotron) originated about the same time, if not earlier, than the synchrotron, but because of limitations as well as assets, its development (reviewed here) has been slow. The potentialities of the microtron in various fields of nuclear and electronic research are discussed. Some of its desirable characteristics are: (a) a fixed magnetic field microwave accelerator capable of considerable reduction in size and weight for the energies attainable (30 mev or higher), (b) field or quasi field-emission electron source with possibility of yields comparable to those of linear accelerators, (c) electron output in small bunches with precise control of timing possible, (d) orbital distribution allowing easy extraction of electron beams for special experiments or for use of microtron as an injector to other accelerators, (e) simplified equipment with easy, stable, and reliable operation, (f) the special form \"race-track microtron\" has further advantages for experimental work, (g) adaptation to F.F.A.G. magnet structures is a possibility still untouched, (h) modified for use with an auxillary magnetic field rising stepwise in time the \"synchro-microtron\" may attain high electron energies in very short times. Here the steady field structure may even be dispensed with, giving a compact microwave accelerator."
"A thallium-activated sodium iodide gamma monitor is described which utilizes both the ac and dc components of the anode current of a multiplier phototube. The dc component serves to monitor over a range of 104 the gross gamma activity of selected points in a solvent extraction plant for the processing of spent nuclear fuel. From the ac component a gamma energy analysis is obtained over an activity range of 102. The ac component also serves as a monitor on the multiplier phototube gain adjustment. The characteristics of the gamma monitor system are discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"One of the inherent properties of the electron linear accelerator is that it produces radiation in pulses whose duration is less than the pulse duration of the radio frequency source from which it is fed. In practice the pulse length lies in the range from one to five microseconds. However, by independently pulsing the electron source or injector, intense pulses of radiation of duration 0.1 sec or less can be easily achieved and the lower limit is set only by stray capacitance effects. The radiation produced can be electrons, X rays, or neutrons (by gamma-n reaction). One of the more important practical applications in nuclear research is as a pulsed neutron source in time-of-flight neutron spectroscopy where the short duration and high flux, when used with appropriate analyzing circuitry, provide a spectrometer of high resolving power in the intermediate neutron range. Short bursts of radiation also find application in radio-chemistry where physicochemical changes often occur in a very short interval after the absorption of radiation."
"A neutron sensitive photomultiplier tube has been built and tested in line with a program to investigate unconventional mechanisms of neutron detection. A fission counter following established principles has been designed with emphasis on minimum demands on skill and labor during construction and assembly, and minimum over-all cost."
"Instrumentation for radiological studies is interpreted as relating to device or tools for measurement purposes or for implementing research studies in which radioactive material is used. In radiological studies, instrumentation plays a vital part due to the hazards involved in handling radioactive material, and due to the necessity for accurate measurements. The varied fields of research include use of the nuclear reactor, hot laboratory installations, accelerators, cloud chambers, and many other pieces of apparatus. All of these require accessory instruments in order to use them successfully. The list of instruments is lengthy and is mentioned merely to illustrate the spread of the subjects covering the literature of instrumentation for radiological studies. Therefore, it is necessary to have the subject as clearly defined as possible before attempting to search the literature. A good introduction to the literature of instrumentation is Guide to Instrumentation Literature [8]. This contains an extensive bibliography. The various abstract journals, books, report literature, and other approaches to the literature are discussed."
"A pulse generator was developed for the range 10 to 100 volts to calibrate pulse height analyzers. Amplitude calibration depends on a standard cell. The generator can synchronize with power line frequency, an external oscillator, or furnish its own repetition rate. An advance pulse for triggering an oscilloscope is provided."
"Pulses obtained from halogen-quenched G-M tubes operated under minimum circuit loading conditions were investigated. Oscillograms are shown and pulse characteristics discussed. The data show that the plateau obtained is determined, in part, both by the pulse shapes and by the electrical characteristics of the associated equipment. Spurious peaks in the halogen-quenched pulses occurring at normal operating voltages may be registered as counts, at certain voltage discrimination levels and circuit resolving times. This is of practical importance in radiation measurements."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"An excellent review of the pulse height analyzer field was published in 1952. The principal new developments have been in analyzers having a large number of channels, which make use of digital computer techniques. The characteristics of these analyzers will be discussed. The gray wedge analyzers for high speed applications and other new ideas will be described. An effort will be made to suggest the advantages and disadvantages of the different types for various applications."
"The quantum efficiency of a photoemitting material is determined by a combination of physical properties. It has been found that the requirements are met best by semiconductors of low work function surfaces. In the light of these general considerations, a short survey is given of the photocathodes available heretofore. A more detailed description will then be given of the new multi-alkali cathodes, particularly those of the composition of Sb-K-Na and Sb-K-Na-Cs. Their advantages for use in scintillation counters are discussed."
"A review of fast coincidence circuits, working in the millimicrosecond region, is presented. The main points covered are: 1) operating characteristics of the various types of coincidence circuits, 2) description of the various circuits, 3) differential coincidence method, 4) analysis of coincidence curves and the determination of time delays, 5) the resolving time, 6) effect of random time lags on coincidence curves, 7) experimental investigation of random time lags, 8) coincidence efficiency, and 9) statistical accuracy of time measurements."
"A new type of high-speed electron multiplier employing transmission secondary electron emission from thin insulating films is described. Electrons from a photosurface are multiplied in a series of plane-parallel dynodes consisting of a thin scattering layer of a heavy metal followed by a layer of a pure crystalline insulating material of high secondary emission yield. The characteristics of such dynodes are described, and the dc and pulse performance of an experimental seven-stage device employing this principle is presented."
"A number of developments on multiplier phototubes have taken place in these laboratories since the last scintillation counter symposium. The most important of these developments are discussed and detailed operating data on various tubes are presented. One development of interest has been the large area multiplier phototubes. These tubes have been constructed with usable cathode diameters of ll inches, 142 inches, and 20 inches. On the other extreme, ten stage multiplier phototubes with an over-all outside diameter of 3/4 inches have been developed and the characteristics of these tubes will be presented. A program of ruggedization of multiplier phototubes has been carried out on all standard tubes and the results of this program have led to tubes with better mechanical stability in the field. Work is also described on cathode surfaces, on secondary emission surfaces, and on improvements of the dark current characteristics of multiplier phototubes."
"The method of detecting the passage of charged particles through noble gases by analyzing the light of de-excitation will be discussed. A description is given of the mechanism, and various experimental methods are presented. Attention is directed to performance, applications, and some unsolved problems"
"The spectra of the luminescence from unactivated Nal and thallium activated NaI have been measured in the temperature range -190C. to +20C. using alpha particles, gamma rays, and ultraviolet light as sources of excitation. The characteristic emission from NaI (\"pure\") is in a band centered at approximately 300 m. The intensity is weak at room temperature but increases by a factor of ten in cooling the crystal to -190C. By comparison, the characteristic emission from the commonly used NaI(10-3Tl) is in a band centered at approximately 420 m and changes in intensity by a factor of less than two over the above temperature range. The intensities are approximately equal at -190C. Another crystal, NaI(10-6Tl), was weakly luminescent at room temperature, but emitted both bands strongly at the lowest temperature, with a total intensity approximately equal to the intensity of NaI(10-3Tl). Differences in the spectra which result from the different sources of excitation will be discussed. The results, when combined with those of other investigators, have suggested a model for the scintillation phenomenon in Nal which is at least internally consistent. The model in turn leads to a plausible explanation of the high relative luminescent efficiency of NaI(Tl) and unactivated NaI as compared with some others of the alkali halide family. The characteristic decay time of the scintillation light from unactivated NaI was found to vary between 10-8 seconds at 20C. and 3  10-8 seconds at -190C. The pulse height divided by particle energy at -190C."
"The use of heavy metals in scintillators (excited by high energy) is limited by two factors: 1) Such materials are very often not sufficiently soluble in solvents exhibiting considerable energy transfer, and 2) they generally quench the excitation energy of the solution and thereby decrease the fluorescent output. The latter effect was found to be due mostly to a quenching of the excited molecules of the solvent which are responsible for transferring energy, and to a lesser extent to the quenching of the fluorescent molecule, although this process also occurs. To circumvent the first difficulty one uses solvents with better solubilities for the metal compounds, but the choice is limited because of poor energy transfer characteristics of many of them. One of the best solvents found up to now is p-dioxane, which exhibits considerable energy transfer and shows better solubility properties than most of the other energy transferring solvents. Another means of overcoming difficulties of solubility is to use organic solvents favorable from the standpoint of solubility, but not so favorable from that of energy transfer. One can effectively induce considerable energy transfer in many of these solutions and thus produce high energy excited fluorescence by adding a relatively small amount, of the order of 10 per cent, of an effective liquid solvent (one which shows energy transfer)."
"Measurements of spectrometer resolution using an electron gun and phosphor type of light source yield values considerably better than those obtained from scintillations in a phosphor. Line widths of about 3.4 per cent have been obtained at a pulse height equivalent to 661 kev in NaI. An investigation is being made to determine the causes of this difference. A number of possibilities have been eliminated. Flasher light pulses may be collimated or diffused at the photo surface with no difference in result. They may be mixed with random scintillation pulses giving simultaneously the relatively poor resolution of the scintillator and the good resolution of the flasher. Optical filters do not affect the result when the flasher is used, but do give a relative improvement with a scintillator. It is found that as the light is attenuated in any way from a scintillation crystal, its relative resolution is improved. The improvement is compatible with the concept of an intrinsic crystal resolution. In other words, the difference of the squares of crystal width and flasher width remains constant with varying attenuation. It remains constant also for a given crystal with photomultipliers of different types and resolutions. The intrinsic width indicated for a good crystal is about 6 per cent. Results of experiments attempting to locate the cause of this effect are reported."
"A brief study has been made of the dependency of pulse heights obtained from alpha particles in gas scintillation counters on the gas and wavelength shifter used. Constant and reproducible pulse heights were obtained either by chilling the scintillation cylinder to inhibit evolution of contaminants or by chemically removing them in a uranium furnace. Relative pulse heights have been obtained for various wavelength shifters, gases and gas mixtures, and reflectors. When the waveshifter was vacuum evaporated directly onto the tube face, the optimum thickness was found to be ~20 g/cm2, with tetraphenylbutadiene giving ~1/3 more light than quaterphenyl. Using a 2-inch long aluminum cylinder with the alpha particle source at one end and the phototube at the other, the pulse height was further increased by a factor of 5 by smoking the cylinder with MgO which was subsequently coated with waveshifter. The relative pulse heights for different gases in such a system were: Xe:Kr:A:Ne:He = 32:16:5:1:10. A NaI(Tl) crystal in similar reflector system gave a pulse height of 72. The rise time of the pulses in a xenon counter using an RCA-6342 tube coated with quaterphenyl was found to be on the order of 3.5 m sec. In such a system the pulse height was found to be a linear function of energy for protons, deuterons, and helium ions and to be independent of the type of particle producing the scintillations."
"Selected transparent media were bombarded with the 40 mev alpha particle beam from the 60-inch cyclotron. The ratio of the photomultiplier output current to the alpha particle beam current was taken as a measure of the relative scintillation intensity. The output current from an RCA type 6342 photomultiplier was read on a 50 microampere (full scale) meter. The alpha particle beam current was monitored by counting alpha particles elastically scattered from a 0.005-inch gold foil. Preliminary results on the light output from some media relative to that for distilled water are tabulated in Table I. Background appeared to give negligible contribution to the scintillation intensity. The background measurement was made by stopping the alpha beam with a 1/16-inch aluminum plate inserted ahead of the substance studied."
"The effects of reduction of temperature on the response of Dumont 6292 and RCA 5819 multiplier phototubes and on the light outputs of the gas-free liquid scintillators DPO, NPO, and PBD, dissolved in xylene, have been measured from room temperature down to -35C. Both 6292 and 5819 phototubes exhibit a small linear decrease in response with decreasing temperature. The light outputs of the liquid scintillators when excited by alpha particles increase markedly with decreasing temperature. The measurements indicate that under proper conditions it may be possible to obtain a liquid scintillator more efficient for alpha particles than crystal anthracene. Previous data using gamma-ray excitation carried out over a limited temperature range are in agreement with the alpha particle results."
"Gamma ray energies from 50 mev to 2 bev have been measured with a total absorption method. The gamma rays produce electron showers in a transparent, high Z material. A photomultiplier views the visible light produced, due either to Cerenkov radiation or scintillation. Limits on the energy resolution of this device are the loss of part of the shower from the sides and end, varying efficiency of light collection from different parts of the material, and pauclty of Cerenkov photons when that technique is used. Factors involved in choosing the material and shape of the shower producer will be discussed. Because of the small size and high efficiency, this type of spectrometer is very useful for experiments with high energy accelerators. Descriptions and characteristics of several versions of this instrument are given."
"Techniques are reviewed which are used to: obtain good resolution with Scintillation Spectrometers; minimize pulses which fall outside of photo peaks; measure absolute gamma efficiencies of NaI crystals as a function of energy; and measure K/L capture ratios and gamma conversion coefficients. Some factors affecting energy resolution including associated electronic circuits are discussed."
"The various types of neutron scintillation detectors are examined with respect to efficiency, background sensitivity, pulse height and time response. Actual performance of certain counters under different source conditions are considered. These are given in Fig. 1, and include a few imaginary (3) cases."
"A single crystal of sodium iodide 9-1/4 inches in diameter and 9 inches high with the top bevelled at 450 was recently obtained from Harshaw Chemical Company. A half-inch hole was drilled in the bevelled end to the center of the crystal. Three 5-inch diameter Dumont 6364's were optically connected directly to the flat end of the crystal. Sources were placed inside the crystal and  spectra obtained, taking advantage of full geometry. A 4-3/4 inches diameter sodium iodide crystal 5-1/2 inches high with the top bevelled at 45 has a 1/4 inch hole drilled to the center. The crystal is optically connected to a Dumont 6364. The crystal is placed inside a 28-inch tank of liquid scintillator which uses four Dumont 6364's to detect pulses in the liquid. Samples are placed inside the crystal and the pulses from the crystal and liquid scintillator are placed in anticoincidence to reduce the Compton portion of the  spectra. Typical spectra with these counters are shown along with ae comparison of data taken with these and smaller crystals."
"The transmission characteristics of light pipers used in scintillation counting are very important, especially in situations in which the light piper must be long and thin, as in medical probing counters. This paper discusses several of the important factors involved in the transmission of light through pipers. The superiority of specular reflectors as compared with diffuse reflectors, the superiority of dry reflectors as compared with optically coupled reflectors, and the importance of surface polish are discussed. The use of total-internal-reflection couplers between scintillation crystal and light piper is described. Relative pulse heights obtained with certain crystal-piper-reflector combinations are given, and transmissions as functions of piper length and configuration are shown."
"The 0.07-2 5 mev scintillation pulse height spectra of several NaI crystals, heavily shielded by Fe and Hg, have been analyzed in coincidence and anticoincidence with cosmic ray counters surrounding the crystals. The residual spectra have been analyzed further and the following sources have been identified: 1) Ra226 in Al casing, 2) K40 in phototube, crystal, and canning window, and 3) low pulse height spectrum due to the ionizing components of cosmic rays. The above sources still leave 0.05 c/m/g of NaI unexplained. Acitivities in stainless steel, quartz, and MO reflectors are too low to account for the bulk activity. Moreover, activation analysis of crystal fragments has eliminated the presence of Rb87 as a natural contaminant, and decay studies in neutron free caves preclude the presence of I126 from cosmic ray neutron activation. A possible source of contamination, consistent with the none too well defined shape of the residual spectrum, is Cs137, a fission product, in weight concentrations of about 5  10-1. Studies aimed at proving or disproving its existence are currently being pursued."
"A large 4 liquid scintillation counter for the rapid measurement of total internal gamma contamination of the human body at concentrations 1000 times less than the maximum permissible levels is described. A counting time of only 100 seconds per subject is required to obtain a sensitivity of 5  10-10 curies for 1.5 mev gamma rays. Because of the high counting efficiency and the great stability of operation, the magnitude of counter background is of comparatively little importance so that elaborate shielding precautions are not required. Energy resolution is sufficient to distinguish between gamma rays of markedly different energy, but not adequate for the identification of individual nuclides. The operating characteristics of the counter are discussed including the spectrum and stability of background, energy resolution, and the spectra and limits of sensitivity for nuclides of interest in connection with nuclear power stations and uranium mining operations."
"An essential component of present light amplifying screens is a layer of inorganic, luminescent material. The ability of this layer to derive energy from an electric field to which it is subjected and convert this energy into visible light (i.e., electroluminescence) is fundamental to, but not alone sufficient for the realization of solid-state light amplification. What must be included is some means whereby the luminescent response to the field can be strongly controlled by incident radiation. In one case this has been obtained through the discovery of a phosphor film with the necessary properties, and in another by the utilization of a photoconducting material in contact with an electro-luminescent layer. In the latter case the photoconductor is the radiation-sensitive element, which serves to modify the potential across the luminescent component. The main characteristics of these light amplifying screens will be described, with particular emphasis on the interpretation of the phenomenon observed with the single phosphor film. The behavior, as it is relevant to their possible use in radiation detection will be discussed."
"Techniques in the use of photomultipliers in high-energy nuclear physics are presented by the description of experiments that have been prominent recently. The applications involve the use of photomultipliers with attendant amplification at the limit of present possibilities of time resolution. Such applications include measurements of time of flight, measurement of lifetime of heavy unstable particles, and the elimination of background effects in the pulsed radiation fields of high-energy accelerators. The need for the development of large fast-rising signals from events of small light output, such as Cerenkov light pulses, is made apparent, and a discussion of the performance desired from electron multipliers in view of contemplated experiments is presented."
"A multiplier tube capable of producing output currents greater than one ampere has been constructed. In order to produce high electrical fields at the surfaces of the dynodes a design utilizing an accelerating grid near the surface of each dynode was chosen. A space charge limited current of 1.2 to 1.3 amperes was obtained using 400 volts between each dynode and accelerating grid."
"Antiproton observations at the Bevatron are typical of scintillation counting experiments that would benefit by improved time response. The antiproton yield increases as the flight path of the particle is shortened and the corresponding solid angle increased. From the electronics standpoint, the problem of pulse rise time prevents an arbitrary reduction of the flight path. The first limitation appears in the scintillator-photomultiplier combination, the second in the interconnecting cable, and the last in the indicating circuitry, i.e., coincidence devices, scalers, oscilloscopes, amplifiers, etc. In Part I of this paper, transit time data for the RCA type 6810 are presented. These suggest a method for improving tube performance. Figures are given in Part II for pulse distortion in typical coaxial cables. Performance data are given for a low-distortion 125-ohm transmission line. The line, using styrofoam dielectric, is easily made and useful over several hundred feet in the 10-10 second range."
"Electron transit time has been measured as a function of over-all voltage, and of the position illuminated on the photocathode, for the following photomultipliers: 931-A, 5819, 6342, 6199, 6292. In addition, a few preliminary measurements have been made for the new RCA 6810 and a new Westinghouse transmission-type tube. Light pulses from a spark gap simultaneously illuminated a 935 phototube and, through attenuators, small areas on the various multiplier photocathodes. The two output pulses were displayed on the same cathode-ray tube sweep, recorded photographically, and their time difference measured by reference to a superposed 700-mc sine wave. As a function of voltage, the 5819, 6342, and 6199 transit times range between 21 and 38 mysec, and fall on a single curve as expected from their similar geometries. The 931-A shows values between 11 and 18msec, the 6292, 56-73 musec, and the Westinghouse transmission type of the order of 3 msec. As a small illuminated spot is moved across the photocathode, transit-time variations range from 3msec for the 5819 to 8msec for the 6292."
"Rarely does a device having the conceptual simplicity of the scintillation counter gain the wide recognition accorded this detector. It has become an essential in most phases of nuclear research, and its usefulness extends beyond this into the fields of radiochemistry, biology, tracer technology, radiation and contamination protection, and prospecting for oil and fission fuel. This importance rests upon its extremely high sensitivity, its superior time resolution capabilities, and its ability to measure the energy of the incident nuclear particles. Furthermore, the instrument is rugged, reliable, and flexible. The scintillation counter consists of a clear phosphor scintillation, a multiplier phototube, and the required presentation circuitry. Incident nuclear radiation excites light from the phosphor. This light releases photoelectrons in the multiplier which, after secondary emission amplification by the cascaded dynodes, appear as a current pulse at the anode. The presentation circuitry analyzes and displays or records the results. The instrument's high sensitivity depends upon the availability of high-absorbing, efficient phosphors and upon photomultipliers which can detect very small light flashes. These requirements have been responsible for the development of scintillators of a wide range of sizes and characteristics, and of more sensitive multipliers ranging in cathode diameter from 3/4 inch to 16 inches. The very high speed of the scintillation counter is a consequence of the extremely short fluorescent lifetimes of certain organic phosphors and the very small time dispersion in multiplier phototubes. With presently available phosphors and multipliers, durations can be measured in the one-tenth millimicrosecond range."
"The peak efficiencies of cylindrical 1-1/2 X 1-inch, 3 X 3-inch and 3 X 3-inch bevelled crystals have been determined by the multiplication of the theoretical total efficiency for a particular energy gamma ray by the experimentally determined ratio of the areas under the full energy peak and under the total pulse height spectrum for the gamma ray. Care was taken to eliminate spurious effects in the pulse height spectrum such as scattering, bremsstrahlung, and other interfering gamma radiation from the source, etc., in the experimental measurements. The peak efficiencies have also been determined at certain energies by - coincidence experiments and yield the same results within 5 per cent for energies to 2.76 mev. The intensities of gamma rays determined in this way have been compared to the disintegration rates obtained from 4 -counting techniques from sources with known decay schemes, and the results agreed within the limits given above. The extension of these efficiencies to crystals of different composition or to crystals with the same shapes but different dimensions will be discussed."
"This paper describes the RCA-6810, a head-on type of multiplier phototube having an S-11 response and intended for use in high-speed scintillation counting. This tube features a 2-inch-diameter, semitransparent cathode, and has a fourteen-stage, in-line, electrostatically-focused, silver-magnesium dynode structure. The mechanical construction of the tube and the method of assembly are described. With a supply voltage of 2000 volts, the 6810 is capable of multiplying feeble pulses 12.5 million times and has a luminous sensitivity of 750 amperes per lumen. With the maximum rated supply voltage of 2300 v, the amplification factor is 66 million and the luminous sensitivity 4000 a per lumen. Output current pulses of 0.7 a may be utilized. Data showing the linearity of the output over a wide range of light levels are given. Other properties of the tube such as speed of response, after-pulses, and time resolution capability are discussed, and the effect of a magnetic field on performance is described."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This bibliography was prepared as an activity of a subcommittee of the AIEE Committee on Carrier Current, and presents references to significant literature in the field of power system communications from 1920 to 1954. The bibliography consists of a revision and updating of an unpublished AIEE paper, \"Bibliography of Power Line Carrier Literature.\" The references are classified according to subject matter as outlined in the subject Index and all references are numbered and listed chronologically. Additions or corrections to this bibliography will be appreciated."
"This paper reports the results of the defibrillation of the dog's heart by means of capacitor discharges. It was found that if the heart had been in fibrillation for a period not exceeding 30 seconds, a capacitor of suitable value charged to the proper voltage would arrest the fibrillation. In cases where the chest was open and the heart exposed, a discharge of 5 joules or more at a potential of not less than 500 volts would restore normal heart action. In cases where the chest was not opened, but the discharge was sent through electrodes on opposite sides of the chest, a discharge of 500 joules or more at several thousand volts was required. If the heart remained in ventricular fibrillation, without cardiac massage, for from 1 to 3 minutes, a capacitor discharge could not be relied upon to resuscitate the heart and restore normal rhythm. It was also found that capacitors charged to lower values would produce fibrillation when discharged through a normal heart."
"AIEE Special Publication S-43 \"Bibliography on Power Capacitors 1925-1950\" was issued in January 1952 and consisted of a comprehensive bibliography of the literature dealing with power capacitors over the period indicated. This issue contained a total of 918 items from some 180 periodicals published in the United States and abroad. The original publication S-43 was supplemented in September 1953 by an AIEE \"Bibliography on Power Capacitors 1950-1952\"; 119 items were included. The present work extends the bibliography over the years 1952-1954, and makes reference to 96 articles. The material is classified under the same headings previously used. Under each heading, titles are arranged in chronological order."
"The thermal life of an electrical insulating system made up of magnet wire coated with a modified-silicone enamel and other silicone components has been evaluated by three different test methods. The test methods are in accordance with proposed AIEE Test Codes that have either received tentative approval or are under consideration by the appropriate AIEE committees. The results determined by each of the test methods correlate. The data presented indicate that the Dow Corning wire enamel used in these tests qualify for class H use in random-wound electric machinery."
"The chief topic in this paper concerns field structures in synchronous machines which simulate an anisotropic material, which have a greater permeance in the direct axis than in the quadrature axis. Superficial anisotropy is also considered alone and in combination with internal anisotropy. It is shown that an increase in reluctance torque may be secured by due attention to both superficial and internal construction. No new method of securing superficial anisotropy is given but, in a brief discussion, a short method of estimating it is proposed. The internal structure proposed for analysis, is a slitted rotor core simulating an anisotropic material."
"Organic insulations composed of paper or cloth base with phenolic or black asphaltic varnish impregnant are shown by extensive tests to have an aging rate in air dependent on the insulation thickness. A change in insulation thickness from that representative of turn insulation to that used for a major voltage barrier may increase its useful life in air by as much as ten times if in a dry atmosphere. The corresponding change in temperature class for a specific number of hours of life in air may be of the order of 30 degrees centigrade (C) to 50 C for this change in thickness, under the same favorable conditions. A possible explanation of this difference is offered, based on the progressive shielding of the inner laminae by the outer portions which gives the effect of the shielded portions operating in a nonoxidizing medium. The inhibition of evaporation effects may also be a factor."
"By the previously published technique1 of measuring insulation resistance at increasing direct voltages, the serviceability of the major stator insulation of 25 high-voltage rotating machines of various sizes, types, and ages has been appraised for maintenance purposes. In some cases, adverse conditions have been detected, always nondestructively. So far there has been no service failure of insulation shown by the test to have adequate strength. Thanks to the collaboration of several utilities, further information has been obtained from tests on condemned windings. Developments described relate to reduction of testing time, and improvement of instru-mentation, technique, and interpretation. Conditions favorable and unfavorable to reliable measurements are exemplified. The significance of electric strength as a criterion of serviceability is discussed."
"A method is described for determining the corona-starting voltage in air-solid dielectric systems when the thickness and the dielectric constants are known. The method is derived by applying data from Paschen's law to the theoretical distribution of a voltage potential between air and a solid insulation. Two procedures for verifying the method and a determination of the accuracy are described. The extent of error due to field distortion and other factors is discussed. Examples showing how the method may be applied practically for air-solid dielectric systems containing more than one solid dielectric and the expected accuracy are included."
"The designer of low-voltage switchgear is continually confronted with two conflicting demands: first, the requirement for reducing the space occupied by the switchgear; and second, the requirement to increase the interrupting capacity of the circuit breakers which must be installed in the allotted space of the switchgear enclosures. However, higher interrupting capacity is accompanied by the need to be able to close against higher momentary ratings. This requires a more powerful operating mechanism, which usually occupies a greater portion of the allotted space. The a-c solenoid, which is still the conventional power source for low-voltage circuit breakers, requires exceedingly high currents to supply even marginal closing effort in the small available space. It is natural, then, that high-pressure hydraulics, which has proved so successful in aeronautical and automotive practice and more recently1,2,3 has proved equally successful in high-voltage circuit breaker operators, should be extended to the low-voltage circuit breaker field where it can solve the problem of great power in small space and because of its ability to respond without heavy shock to abruptly changing loads during breaker closing stroke. This paper describes the design and development of a simple and unique hydraulic system which has been co-ordinated with a time-tested and proved mechanically trip-free linkage arrangement adapted to fulfill the requirements imposed by the extremely arduous load characteristic of low-voltage high-current-interrupting-capacity air circuit breakers."
"The gap-pickup conductor-cooled field design utilizes gas scooped from the gap between the rotor and stator and circulated through passages in the conductors to cool the windings. Because this gas can be introduced at many locations axially along the rotor, the cooling circuits can be highly interspersed, and many ventilation arrangements are available. This paper describes the analysis and results of studies of the heat flow problem presented by these ventilation arrangements. A digital computer has been used to obtain winding temperatures for any set of conductor dimensions or ventilation pattern. The speed, accuracy, completeness, and convenience of this approach provides the designer with detailed temperature information, allowing him to select the best design for each application."
"The present practice of using different temperature classes of insulation in a single unit as indicated feasible by functional test codes1 and evaluation of component insulations2 make the knowledge of temperature gradients throughout the dry-type transformer of prime importance. A number of thermal effects of presently used dry-type transformer geometries are evaluated and data presented showing their interrelation. Some representative ratios of hot-spot temperature rises are given allowing a closer co-ordination between a dry-type transformer aging model and its prototype. Since winding height is a major factor, some corrections factoring this item with the general ratios are proposed."
"A new definition of a standard base load for an electrical utility allows the separation of the load into base, annual growth, and weather components. With this system, a method of load forecasting for Ontario Hydro has been developed and tested for 10 months. The median error on forecasts made 24 hours in advance has been 1.0 per cent (%). Tables enabling the conversion of a weather forecast into a daylight illumination forecast are also given."
"The mechanism by which the principal wave, which travels along the line and interferes with radio reception, is generated is expressed in mathematical terms and related to the currents which flow during laboratory tests of samples of conductor. These tests are described in detail. The generating functions so determined are used to calculate the electric and magnetic intensities of the interference field near the line. The statistical properties, namely, the correlation function and the spectral density of the field intensities are employed to superimpose the effects of several line conductors. As an example, a comparison is given of the interference level of two lines equipped with the same conductor but one of horizontal and the other of vertical configuration."
"Growth of power utility loads is steeply upward with the resulting requirement of higher transmission voltages. Radio interference (RI) influence has been reported1 to be a limiting factor in choice of size of transmission conductors. There are still large gaps in the present knowledge of generation, propagation, attenuation, and measurement of interference, and approaches toward a more complete understanding of this problem are discussed. Line design, wind, and precipitation are considered to be the major factors determining interference levels in the 33- to 230-kv range investigated. Three representative lines were extensively explored with recording devices, many individual measurements were made on others, and laboratory experiments were carried out, giving information on the magnitude and causes of the variations of interference encountered in the New England area. Many of the findings can be applied to the high-voltage circuits above 300 kv."
"Improved test methods are presented for determining electrical tracking resistance of insulating materials under conditions of surface contamination. Simple and easily reproduced, they provide maximum correlation with service experience. Tests both for rating materials and for evaluating them in actual equipment are described."
"Extruded and heat-treated high-strength aluminum bus conductors offered by the major suppliers of electric busses were found to be similar in all respects. Except for electrical conductivity, the new conductor alloy is similar to the extruded and heat-treated architectural alloy designated as 6063-T6 by the Aluminum Association. Current-carrying tests were made on one of the available alloys to establish 60-cycle current ratings for this new bus material. The results of these tests are applicable to the other high-strength bus materials. Short-circuit tests were also made to determine adequate spacing between bus supports for various 3-phase fault currents and also to compare the relative strengths of busses made of this new alloy and copper."
"When the ground wire on top of a transmission-line tower is struck by lightning the potential of the ground wire and the tower top is raised above the potential of ground. Because of electro-magnetic and electrostatic coupling between the ground wire and the phase wire, a part of this voltage appears on the phase wire. Thus, if the tower-top potential is E and the potential of the phase wire is KE, where K is the coupling factor (a number less than one), the voltage across the insulator string will be E(1-K). If this voltage exceeds the voltage-impulse-strength of the insulator string there will be a flashover from tower to phase conductor which may result in a serious outage on the system. Thus, in designing and protecting a transmission line against flashovers due to lightning, it is important to estimate the probable tower-top potential that might be expected for a given set of conditions. The derivation and calculation of this tower-top potential due to a direct stroke, as a function of time, is very lengthy and complex. In the interest of simplifying the problem, the tower-top potential is sometimes estimated by merely multiplying the probable crest value of tower current by the tower footing resistance. For very high values of footing resistance (100 ohms) this approach gives reasonable but optimistic answers, while for the low footing resistances, usually found in practice (10 ohms or less), this method gives very poor and very optimistic answers."
"The development of the 330-kv transmission system of the American Gas and Electric Company (AG&E) and of the Ohio Valley Electric Corporation (OVEC) involved the installation of a great number of circuit breakers. The AG&E 330-kv system is superimposed on existing 138-kv transmission facilities. The OVEC 330-kv system was built to supply power from two new generating plants to the Atomic Energy Commission's diffusion plant at Portsmouth, Ohio. The OVEC system is owned by 15 private utilities and is interconnected with the AG&E 330-kv system. Particularly in the case of OVEC, it is of the greatest importance to prevent, or limit in duration, unscheduled interruptions which could result in costly damage at the processing plant. To attain and maintain this high degree of service reliability, AG&E has made it a standard practice to field test new equipment whenever possible and, if required to apply the results to the betterment of the equipment and the service. The line-dropping investigation described in this paper is one of several carried out or planned in pursuance of these objectives. The particular circuit breaker described herein was completely restrikefree in its performance."
"The problem of obtaining an accurate representation of 330-kv bus potential to be used in metering energy and reactive interchange over 330-kv tie lines was economically solved by the use of a network applied to a power transformer to compensate for voltage transformation errors due to load on the transformer. This paper describes the design, testing, and operation of such a potential compensating network used with a power transformer. By its use the need for two 3-phase banks of expensive 330-kv potential transformers together with their foundations and switches was eliminated at no sacrifice of metering accuracy."
"Advancements in the art of design and construction of large turbine generators have brought about marked improvements in the familiar designs of these machines. New methods of cooling give machines new and different characteristics. The physical sizes of conventionally cooled generators are largely determined by their heat-dissipating ability. Their efficiencies are not greatly influenced by their physical size. Conductor-cooled generators, on the other hand, have such increased heat-dissi-pating ability that their size is determined almost entirely by other factors. The balance of such economic considerations as generator size and efficiency tends to govern the design of machines with this type of cooling. Losses are an interrelated function of machine size, hydrogen pressure, coolant pumping pressure, and the geometry of the coolant passages. The choice of hydrogen pressure for maximum capability is affected by such performance characteristics as efficiency, short-circuit ratio, and capability in air. It is shown how these various factors are related and the way in which their influence is brought to bear, first on the choices made while the generator is being designed and, second, on the performance of the generator after it is installed."
"The results are presented of progress to date in an experimental investigation of galloping conductors. In this work emphasis is placed on obtaining a better understanding of the mechanism of galloping, with the expectation that this approach may lead most quickly to a practical solution to the problem. The results are given of field observations, in which the translational and torsional motions of a number of naturally galloping conductors were determined, together with the observations on a full-sized experimental line fitted with airfoils. The instrumentation systems used are described. In addition, the torsional and damping characteristics for two sizes of ACSR (steel-reinforced aluminum) conductors are given."
"This paper covers the development of a 5,000,000-kva compressed air circuit breaker rated 115,000 and 138,000 volts with 1,200-ampere continuous current-carrying capacity. The breaker is of the conventional dead-tank outdoor construction with one tank per phase. It has two condenser-type bushings extending through the top of each tank for connecting to the customer's bus structure and for mounting of current transformers and potential devices. Preliminary dielectric tests were made with a variety of electrode shapes over a wide pressure range in a grounded-steel pressure vessel. Verification tests were made with 88 kv and 66 kv to ground across two interrupters in series and with 44 kv and 22 kv to ground across a single interrupter. Additional testing was done to establish the thermal capacity and line-dropping ability of the breaker, and to check the voltage distribution across the series interrupters."
"Digital computers have been used successfully since May 1953, first in Schenectady, N. Y., and then in Pittsfield, Mass., for transformer design (proposition and requisition) and for various transformer development applications. An iterative procedure, which converges automatically and rapidly to the desired solution, has been developed for designing transformers on digital computers. The application of digital computers allows for the first time in an economical manner the complete optimization of the design. Considerable savings in time and dollars have been achieved as well as more accurate designs, which all follow the same consistent design philosophy."
"The rating of electrical insulating materials for use at various temperatures for an adequate service life requires a knowledge of the manner in which the insulation deteriorates in service, and the rate of deterioration. This paper reviews some of the basic principles of the aging process in various classes of the newer materials, which should serve as a guide in developing the test information necessary in the new method of insulation classification. Specifically the paper summarizes the various mechanisms of insulation deterioration and describes the various chemical and physical changes which take place in insulating materials as a result of the application of heat. Rates at which these changes take place and the manner in which they are influenced by temperature, environment, and other factors are discussed. Test methods for evaluating materials and simple combinations of materials as well as systems of materials as they are used in various types of apparatus, are described. The manner in which these test methods may be used to develop new insulation standards and the analysis of the data derived from them are given special attention. A number of examples of aging behavior are given. Finally the paper outlines a specific proposal for the revision of AIEE and corresponding international insulation temperature standards. This includes the development and adoption of standard tests by which temperature ratings can be obtained on materials and systems of materials as they are used in various apparatus."
"The scope of this paper will cover a review of the general aspects and philosophy of overhead distribution that may influence a decision between continuing an existing urban operation at 2,400/4,160 volts and conversion to 7,200/12,470 volts; and a presentation of cost summaries derived from several studies and comparisons made for present operating systems. It is concluded that a higher voltage should replace 4.16 kv under some conditions but that the cost of conversion is not justified in many situations, and that both voltages should be continued in general design and planning for future optimum distribution, with larger component parts for supply to growing loads."
"This paper reports on the development of a multiple-break porcelainclad 3-cycle air-blast circuit breaker type DHF with 2,000-ampere continuous current capacity and with interrupting ratings up to 25,000 mva (megavolt-amperes), depending on voltage. The new design is based on long service experience and system tests carried out over the years with the smaller type DCF. Because of the exceedingly good record of the latter, its basic features could be conserved. Whatever changes were made, apart from size of components, were mainly in the form of refinements for improving the streamlining of the airflow, simplification of control, and protection of all moving parts from external influences. Direct verification of the full interrupting capability of breakers of such ratings is manifestly impossible. Therefore, all tests were made on a single interrupter. Because of the near-perfect mechanical and electrical symmetry of this design, the capability of a complete breaker can be deduced with a high degree of accuracy. This fact has been exhaustively investigated with the predecessor of the device reported on where it was still possible to verify the results of component testing by staged tests in very large systems. An outstanding feature of this type of circuit breaker is that, regardless of voltage identical interchangeable components are used throughout (except for the air tanks), not only for interrupters but also for blast valves, control mechanism, and tripping devices. This again is in line with previous practice. The advantages for both manufacturer and users are obvious."
"The term \"chemical plant\" no longer defines any specific type of industrial activity or resulting end product, nor does it embrace plants producing the tremendously wide variety of what are generally considered as chemical products. It could very well be extended to cover many of the modern industrial plants whose end products may not be chemical in nature but may involve numerous chemical operations during the manufacture of these products. Electrical installations in such production areas may be subject to the same deteriorating influences as would be encountered in similar installations located in plants whose end products are chemical and known to industry as such. It is obviously impossible for a cable manufacturer to have investigated in his laboratories the effect of every type of chemical influence on a given material such as polyethylene. For present purposes, the author has therefore reviewed a substantial amount of the technical and trade literature of possible interest, data on actual installations in chemical plants, plus some data accumulated in the laboratories of the company with which he is associated, in order to present a fairly comprehensive survey dealing with the possible merits of using polyethylene-insulated high-voltage cables in chemical and allied plants."
"A method of design is described which makes use of two calculated points on the load characteristic of the static frequency doubler. The calculated points are the no-load secondary voltage and the secondary short-circuit current. These points can be obtained with good accuracy by piecewise linear approximation of the B-H characteristic of the magnetic core. The calculation of any other load point would require the solution of four transcendental equations. The present method makes use of empirically obtained load characteristics. It was found that the resistively loaded frequency doubler has a load characteristic which can be well approximated by a quarter of an ellipse having the no-load voltage and the short-circuit current as its half axes. This method permits the calculation of the peak output power and the relative size of the static frequency doubler at different prescribed regulations, and gives good guidance in the design of static frequency doublers in sizes ranging from 100 watts to 100 kw. A sample design based on the method described is developed for a 250-watt 60- to 120-cycle single-phase static frequency doubler and the calculated and measured values are compared."
"This paper presents the design and mode of operation of a saturable reactor with improved load current wave form. In a following paper data and measurements on already built polyunit reactors will be presented. The polyunit saturable reactor acts as an adjustable linear reactor whose reactance is basically adjustable by a d-c control current. The degree of linearity or harmonic distortion of the current is controllable by design. The reactor can be used as an adjustable reactive-power load, or as a controller for the flow of active or reactive power to a load, which is placed in series or in parallel with the polyunit reactor and suitably connected to a source. Earlier, the use of saturable reactors to control large blocks of power was prevented by the inferior influence of the reactor upon the load current wave form. Hence, the polyunit reactor opens a new field of heavypower control."
"The design and operating characteristics of an experimental 2.7-kva 12-unit 3-phase polyunit saturable reactor are described. Experimental results show that the load current wave form is practically sinusoidal over all regions of operation in accordance with the design objective. 27, 1995."
"Impedance matching relationships, based on electrical-mechanical analogies, are used to determine how the characteristics of vibration dampers should be related to the tension, weight per foot, and diameter of conductors on which the dampers are mounted, for optimum damping of aeolian vibration. Methods of determining power dissipated in vibrating conductors and dampers are developed. Data on such power dissipation and on power input from wind to vibrating conductors are combined to obtain estimates of vibration amplitude. The results of the estimates are checked by comparison of records of vibration of outdoor spans exposed to wind."
"An apparatus for the measurement of the total hemispherical emissivity of stranded conductor is described. A measurement is made by suspending the specimen in the center of an evacuated chamber, heating the specimen, and taking a cooling curve. New stranded aluminum conductors have emissivity values of about 20 to 25%; old, weathered conductors may have emissivities of 90% or higher. Data tending to confirm the values of emissivity obtained are presented in the form of actual temperature rises of several sizes of stranded conductor under controlled conditions. It is shown that the values of convected heat loss obtained by subtracting calculated radiated heat loss from the measured I2R input to the conductor check very closely for both new and blackened conductors."
"The subject of transients in polyphase induction motors and synchronous machines has been studied in very great detail by several investigators, but no published literature exists dealing exclusively with the analysis of the problem of transients in single-phase induction motors. This particular problem has been studied in this paper by applying the Laplace transform. The results of actual computation of the currents and developed electrical torque are compared with the data obtained by setting up the integro-differential equations of the machine on an electronic differential analyzer. It is shown that if the motor is switched on to the supply when the potential passes through its zero value, there is a pulsating fundamental frequency torque superimposed on the average steady-state unidirectional torque. If, on the other hand, the switch is closed when the applied potential passes through its maximum value, the developed electrical torque settles down to its final steady-state value during the first cycle of the supply voltage."
"A control system for the complete automatic dispatching of generating units in an electric power system has been developed, which combines the functions of load-frequency control and economic loading of generating units on an incremental cost basis. This new automatic dispatching system performs routine and repetitive functions that eliminate the need for detailed loading schedules and requires a minimum of attention from dispatchers and station operators. In addition, numerous protective features have been included to trip the equipment off control and permit manual control in emergencies. The system has been designed for minimum communication expense. Equipment additions may be made as the system grows with little or no modification to equipment already installed. Transmission-loss penalty factors may be considered manually or automatically in this system."
"Before the 220-kv Mettlen-Lavorgo line was finally put in service, the protection devices and the circuit breakers of the 100-kilometer (km)-long 220-kv transmission system with grounded neutral point were tested for rapid reclosing with short-circuit arcs. The tests described here demonstrate the trouble-free performance of high-speed distance relays, air-blast circuit breakers, and the accompanying reclosing equipment. In the case of the single-pole ground faults, the residual arc was extinguished after, at the most, two periods. No restrikes occurred with a dead time of more than 0.22 second for the 3-pole and 0.45 second for the single-pole interruptions, and the power supply could be continued."
"This paper develops a general block-diagram representation of the synchronous generator when applied to voltage-regulating system studies. This representation, which is suited particularly to analogue-type computation, includes saturation effects, variable-speed operation, variable-load power factor, and also the effects of saliency and damper circuits."
"This paper describes a simple method for detecting and locating impulse and low-frequency corona, and breakdowns in some types of insulating structures and apparatus. Essentially, it is an adaptation of sonar techniques of triangulation and ranging. For impulse, it is applicable to steep-front and chopped-wave tests as well as full-wave tests. It is capable of locating corona or failures in many cases with accuracy. It is useful primarily for laboratory techniques or applications where ambient background and specimen magnetostriction noises are either known or can be controlled carefully. Its use during factory impulse tests of transformers is limited because of the ultrasonic-magnetostriction noise, which is developed in the core during the voltage application."
"Science and technology of circuit breaker design are continuously improving. It would seem desirable if this continuous process of improvement could be incorporated in equipment as it is developed. Modern production methods and consideration of users' personnel training and stocking problems prompt the desire to keep equipment as nearly standard as possible for reasonable periods of time and to refrain from changing designs from day to day. This is especially true of large equipment such as the intermediate-voltage outdoor oil circuit breaker. It is better periodically to redesign the equipment completely and incorporate all of the latest technological advancements at one time. The intermediate-voltage frame-mounted outdoor oil circuit breakers identified as type FZO-15-1000 through FZO-69-2500 (rated 14.4 kv to 69 kv, 600 amperes and 1,200 amperes) described in this paper (Fig. 1) have recently undergone such a major redesign. The introduction of the new American Standards Association-National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) standard bushings for this class breaker made it desirable to redesign a considerable portion of the circuit breaker. A reduced-size PNEU-DRAULIC (Allis-Chalmers trademark) operator was designed for application to this class of breaker. A new mechanically trip-free operating mechanism has been developed which is adaptable to pneumohydraulic, pneumatic, or solenoid operation. Therefore, it was decided that this was an opportune time to redesign this line of circuit breakers completely."
"A theoretical basis for determination of the short-time transient characteristics of transformer windings is presented. This theory was used to develop an accurate, economical, and convenient method of determining impulse voltage stresses within transformer windings through the use of modern digital and analogue computers. The method has been developed for and applied to the shell form of construction, but the theory is equally applicable to other forms of construction."
"The phenomenon of an increase in transformer iron loss due to the impulse testing of the windings is reported. This increase is caused by the breakdown of the interlaminar insulation on the punchings due to the voltages induced from the windings. The interaction of voltages induced electromagnetically and electrostatically is largely involved. Several methods have been devised to reduce this effect."
"Synopsis: With the progress in automation, there is a growing need for precise and stepless control of motor speeds in driving fans, pumps, conveyors, and all types of machines. Usually, d-c motors with field and/or voltage control, or induction motors driving the load through eddy-current clutches, are employed for this purpose. In this paper, another method of induction-motor speed control is considered; it employs feedback controlled saturable reactors in series with the motor windings. The performance of the reactor speed-control scheme is considered as a problem in power modulation, in which an electric energy source forms the input, and controlled torque and speed are the desired outputs. This method does not require a d-c power supply, or any commutators or power tubes. In addition to an essentially standard induction motor, the scheme only uses readily available reactors and control circuits. The direct current required for the control is only 1 or 2 % (per cent) of the motor rating, and can readily be supplied from amplistats, or equivalent devices, just as in the case of the clutch. Calculated and test data are given, showing that this method of speed control allows the speed of a wound-rotor induction motor to be set at any desired value between 100% forward and 100% backward, and to be held nearly constant at the set value, over a full range of torque from plus (motoring) to minus (braking), up to the maximum torque value."
"Experimental studies have shown the manner in which a plain-break arc gap in sulfur hexafluoride gas (SF6) recovers dielectric strength after arc disappearance. The indicated effects of gas pressure and gap length on this recovery have been expressed by an approximate equation. Dielectric recovery in the millisecond time range seems to be the result of cooling rather than deionization. By straightforward methods, a limit relation for restrike-free performance of a plain-break capacitor switch employing SF6 has been obtained. Actual performance data show this relation to be useful for the design of devices which are ideally suited for capacitance switching."
"A new method of studying simultaneous unbalances with the aid of a network calculator is discussed. Such unbalances may occur in power systems when faults involve more than one circuit of a double-circuit line; when the line-to-ground or line-to-line faults are accompanied by open conductors; when simultaneous faults occur at more than one location, as can result from overvoltages due to one fault causing insulation breakdown at some point removed from the original fault; and from faults which involve two or more circuits of different voltage levels, as sometimes occur when subtransmission and primary distribution circuits are carried on the same pole structures. The method enables one to include the general case of Z1Z2, with only conventional passive network calculator impedances and 1-to-1 ratio transformers being required. No negative impedances, mutual impedances between networks, or \"imaginary\" turn-ratio transformers are required, even for cases involving wyedelta transformations between the unbalances. Applications to conditions of simultaneous faults and open conductors are discussed."
"A research program has been underway to study systematically small rotating electric machinery from the combined viewpoints of thermal and electrical processes. This paper is limited to the application of dimensional analysis to the detailed thermal and electrical processes occurring in the steady-state operation of a small d-c shunt-wound motor. Part II1 presents the numerous measurements of temperature distribution in the rotor and stator of such a motor made with the aid of 130 thermocouples and will correlate the experimental results in terms of dimensionless groups obtained with the aid of the dimensional analysis. Dimensional analysis was applied to this case of extremely complex and interrelated thermal and electrical processes and yielded a final single unknown functional relation between the important thermal and electrical parameters for the case of geometrically similar machines made from materials with identical electrical, magnetic, and thermal properties. The dimensionless groups which arose from this dimensional analysis were found to be of great value in planning the experimental test program and in correlating the experimental results. The dimensional analysis gave, however, no information as to the nature of the desired function relating the various dimensionless groups. The dimensional analysis was checked for the limiting case of zero internal flow of cooling air by a process of actually deriving the desired function predicted by dimensional analysis. This derivation combined equations for the electric circuit with the equations for the thermal circuit."
"A research program has been under way to study systematically the combined thermal and electrical processes in small rotating electric machines. The previous paper in this series was limited to the application of dimensional analysis to such processes in a small d-c shunt-wound motor.1 This paper presents the results of extensive measurements of steadystate temperatures within such a motor, made with the aid of about 130 thermocouples. The details of the test motor, the procedures followed, the variables measured, and the results are described. For reasons of space, only eight selected temperature distributions are given from a total of 33 runs. The results for all the other important variables are shown in tabular form. The validity of the entire body of data was investigated in terms of a first-law balance or energy-flux balance for all processes occurring in the motor. The excellent balances obtained give great weight to the validity of the data. The experimental data in terms of the dimensionless parameters are fitted to simple empirical equations. The results are discussed from the point of view of prediction of size reduction for motors of the same design as the test motor, geometrically similar, and made from materials identical to those used for the test motor."
"Expressions are derived for the magnetic field intensities and current densities in the slot space of d-c armatures when the slot contains idle conductors not connected in the armature circuit. Equations for the calculation of the copper losses in the conductors are given. Theoretical results are compared with tests."
"The following discussion of a 1953 paper was received during 1956. \"Design Calculations for Permanent-Magnet Generators\" [Discussion of paper 53-9 by David Ginsberg and Leo T. Misenheimer, published in Power Apparatus and Systems, April 1953, pages 96-103]."
"This index covers all technical items - papers, correspondence, reviews, etc. - that appeared in this periodical during the year, and items from previous years that were commented upon or corrected in this year. Departments and other items may also be covered if they have been judged to have archival value. The Author Index contains the primary entry for each item, listed under the first author's name. The primary entry includes the coauthors' names, the title of the paper or other item, and its location, specified by the publication abbreviation, year, month, and inclusive pagination. The Subject Index contains entries describing the item under all appropriate subject headings, plus the first author's name, the publication abbreviation, month, and year, and inclusive pages. Note that the item title is found only under he primary entry in the Author Index."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The Measurement of performance data is an essential factor in the successful design and manufacture of commercial television receivers. Such data establish a quantitative basis for the evaluation of design improvements and also for the comparison of a product with competitive merchandise. Since the usefulness of performance data lies largely in their function as a basis of comparison, it is necessary that the type of measurements and the techniques employed be standardized. The standards established by the IRE covering methods of measurement of monochrome receivers have been adopted in most part by the television industry. However, the advent of color television has resulted in the introduction of receiver functions for which there are presently no standardized measurement procedures. The purpose of this report is to describe methods employed in the Hazeltine laboratories for the measurement of color television receivers and to serve as a reference for the industry in setting up test procedures."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"In a television receiver installation, reflections on the antenna feeder line or multipath transmission to the receiving antenna can give rise to selective reinforcement and cancellation throughout any given channel, so that a relatively nonuniform transmission characteristic results. When a monochrome television receiver is involved, this response characteristic is generally only of secondary interest. Since a color television receiver makes more complete use of the available spectrum, it becomes more important in this latter case to have a more or less flat transmission characteristic from the transmitter to the receiver terminals if satisfactory performance is to be had."
"The paper describes an efficient and economic demodulator for intercarrier television sound. The circuit uses the method of sampling near zero passage of the carrier. This is accomplished in one-half of a double triode. The other half operates as a locked oscillator, whose cathode output is used to drive the sampler cathode. The phase angles between grid and cathode of the sampler are not in quadrature. A centering method to obtain coincidence between optimum fm detection and best AM rejection is described."
"This paper consists of a simplified technical derivation of the standards for compatible color television as approved by the Federal Communications Commission for broadcast use. It is shown that compatible color television is based upon principles which are logical extensions of the principles used in monochrome television, in that means for controlling hue and saturation are added to the conventional means for controlling brightness in the reproduced images. The role of the primary color process in color television is explained, and the electronic multiplexing techniques used to combine the three independent components of a color signal for transmission through a single channel of limited bandwidth are described. The paper is concluded by a summary of all the major processes used in compatible color television from the camera input to the receiver output."
"This paper deals with the design of a 41 mc IF strip for color tv, in which inductances and wiring are etched on the same board. Advantages of this method, together with problems encountered and their solution, are covered. It is shown that one of the least expensive and most satisfactory methods of tuning printed inductances is with vanes. Graphs of Q variations with distance from coil and tuning range are presented for both vanes and powdered iron slugs. The problems of shielding the large field of the printed coils and elimination of undesirable ground currents are covered. Performance data and response curves of a representative strip are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A method of analyzing common-emitter transistor video amplifiers has been given that is sufficiently simple and accurate for design work. This paper discusses the use of the above design method for the purpose of obtaining RC-coupled stagger-tuned video amplifiers. For a poles-canceling-zeros scheme, the design equations are given relating external circuit parameters to desired response shape and transistor parameters. By means of stagger tuning, the gain-times-bandwidth factor of a transistor amplifier is kept at unity as in the case of stagger-tuned vacuum tube amplifiers. Experimental results are given for amplifiers that are designed to be maximally flat by this method."
"The behavior of local oscillator tubes and associated circuit elements under the complex conditions of heat flow can be treated analytically. By means of such an analytical treatment, local oscillators at frequencies up to and beyond 1000 mc may be stabilized methodically with conventional temperature-sensitive elements. The resultant frequency stability is generally satisfactory for most practical purposes."
"A simple, efficient cathode-ray tube deflection circuit suitable for standard television horizontal sweep applications with excellent linearity has been developed. The circuit employs either a single transistor or a tube, operated as a switch. The sweep amplitude may be adjusted continuously without affecting the linearity or general performance of the circuit. The switching operation is such that the inrush current upon closing the switch and the voltage build-up upon opening the switch are delayed sufficiently to prevent excessive momentary dissipation in the switching device. This and other circuit characteristics makes it possible to operate the switching device efficiently, particularly when the circuit is transistorized, and therefore permits exceptionally wide deflection angles with a relatively small transistor."
"A solution is sought to the following problem: Given a wide bandwidth of the order of 50 kc, devise standards such that the entertainment value shall be maximized. Four applications are considered: tape recording at a tape speed of 15 inches per second; telephone conversation accompaniment over high-quality telephone lines; long-distance wire-line transmission over high quality telephone lines; and short-wave transmission over a 120 kc channel. Bandwidth reduction is achieved through reduced resolution, reduced field frequency, increased interlacing ratio, the use of dot interlace, and the use of quantizating and coding. The scanning frequencies and synchronizing signal are derived for each case. In addition, for the short-wave system, a method of combating multipath transmission is suggested."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The development and construction of a new 50 Kilowatt Television Transmitter for use on VHF high band channels 7 to 13 is described. The paper deals primarily with the 50 kilowatt final power amplifier since the 5 kilowatt driver section has been in existence for some time and has been described elsewhere."
"A discussion of the technical problems arising from the introduction of color TV signals in a broadcast station. An outline of the experience gained by this pioneer station in handling both color network and locally produced color shows during the last twenty months. Of particular interest will be the method and procedures by which WTMJ-TV brought color to an every day station operational level."
"Since the Ad Hoc report and the Commission's Sixth Report and Order establishing the present TV allocations, the Commission and others have been collecting measurement data on the propagation of signal at TV frequencies. In many cases data is now available where the earlier studies required extrapolation. It is the purpose of this report to review recent measurements and their analysis as they may affect the service and interference of TV broadcast stations. Reference will be made to areas where additional data and studies are desirable."
"Modern professional magnetic tape recorders and reproducers are capable of performing many of the menial chores of radio and TV broadcasting. Pre-recorded announcements accompanied by subaudible tones can control the operation of several tape program reproducers or juke box type automatic record players. Simple systems are available which alternately switch from an announce machine to a program machine, and more elaborate systems include electronic fading and accurate program timing."
"There has long been a need in the television industry for better slide handling and projection. Although the ideal slide projection system is probably yet to be made, we at WNBF-TV feel that we have come fairly close. Starting with a commercially available projector, and adding more elaborate controls and indicators, we have come up with a unit that may be remotely operated from the director's or technical director's position. The use of this projector in the small or medium sized station with proper equipment arrangement can greatly improve slide handling and offers strong possibilities of cutting down on the operating staff needed."
"Vandivere Laboratories, Inc., Arlington, Va."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The high speed duplication of previously recorded magnetic tapes has made the tape radio network practical. For example, each of the two major radio networks in Mexico duplicates over 19,000 seven inch reels of taped programs per month for their several hundred affiliated stations. Since the tapes are erasable and wire program circuits are seldom used, these networks operate very economically, and the quality of their recorded programs is unimpaired by losses in transmission."
"This paper describes a visual experiment in which the observed variable is the subjective sharpness of a color picture. The picture is produced by the superposition of primary color images from three projectors. The test picture corresponds, in general sharpness, to the grade of picture that might be produced by existing or contemplated color television systems. The projectors are operated out of focus to achieve the moderate sharpness values required. The amount of defocus of each projector is expressed in equivalent television bandwidth as part of the calibration. Many different ways of dividing up bandwidth among the three primary colors are explored in determining the variation of picture sharpness."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Propagation conditions at frequencies allocated to television broadcasting require a statistical analysis of field intensity measurements in order to determine the coverage of a television broadcast station. Methods have been developed for the sampling of the field intensity at a height of 30 feet above ground along a true radial. Method of analysis of the field data and interpretation of the results are presented. Results of several surveys are shown. Good correlation is obtained between predicted field intensity contours and measured field intensity contours."
"Part of the genius of modern technological society is the dynamic ingenuity with which solutions are found to problems thought to be impossible. When the FCC Table of Television allocations was released to the public, there was much cynical scoffing at the television assignments in communities of less than 2500 persons. Yet, today there is a rapidly growing and soundly financed industry providing excellent television service to communities of but a few thousand persons. The explosive and belligerent development of re-radiator systems operating without FCC approval is a phenomenon involving towns of less than 2500 persons, for the most part. Low population density is no longer an excuse for the failure to provide either the luxuries or necessities of modern living."
"A cordless (radio) microphone system, successfully used by CBS Television, consisting of a small microphone, miniature FM transmitter, special receivers, and a diversity antenna system is described. The need for continued development work to produce smaller, more rugged and reliable components, having as an objective a system with performance and dependability equal to that obtained from standard studio microphones, is stressed. A system of this type could materially lessen the need for microphone booms in television and motion picture studios."
"A transistor video amplifier which has sufficient output signal, swing, and bandwidth to drive a standard picture tube is described. The amplifier consists of three junction transistors in the following configurations (starting at the input end): grounded-collector, grounded-emitter, and common-base. A resistive feedback path is provided from the output of the grounded-emitter stage to the amplifier input. Adequate dynamic range is obtained by means of the common-base stage which gives an output voltage swing that is twice the breakdown voltage of the transistor. The feedback employed not only improves the linearity and high-frequency response but also aids in obtaining d-c restoration. Because of the current and voltage variable reactance effects in junction transistors, the frequency response of the amplifier is a function of the operating point. Circuit models that are used in the analysis and design of such amplifiers are discussed."
"The Postmaster-General's Department has developed a range of aerial systems suitable for National Broadcasting Service transmitting stations of powers from 200 watts to 50 kilowatts in the frequency range 540-1600 kc/s. The aerial systems fall into two classes: ``high'' aerials having special anti-fading properties, usually near half-a-wavelength in height, and ``low'' aerials less than a quarter-wavelength in height. This paper traces the development of the designs, with special emphasis on low aerial systems suitable for construction by Departmental staff. Here the appllication of practices well-established at V.H.F. leads to structures believed to be novel for M.F. broadcasting. Charts and diagrams are given from which aerial structures suitable for any particular application may be readily selected."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The Tropospheric Propagation Research Section of the Radio Propagation Engineering Division, National Bureau of Standards, has conducted extensive measurements of programs in the 100-1000 Mc frequency range. A variety of transmitting and receiving antenna heights was used, and long-term recordings are available over distances ranging from well within to far beyond the radio horizon."
"The DuMont ``Vitascan'' Color TV system produces live color television pictures of high quality without the use of expensive and complicated color television cameras or highly trained and skilled camera and maintenance crews. It is, in fact, a modern all-electronic version of the earliest forms of mechanical live television pickup which employed the flying-spot scanning principles."
"In a television receiver installation, reflections on the antenna feeder line or multipath transmission to the receiving antenna can give rise to selective reinforcement and cancellation throughout any given channel, so that a relatively non-uniform transmission characteristic results. When a monochrome television receiver is involved, this response characteristic is generally only of secondary interest. Since a color television receiver makes more complete use of the available spectrum, it becomes more important in this latter case to have a more or less flat transmission characteristic from the transmitter to the receiver terminals if satisfactory performance is to be had."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Schemes for an attitude control system and for electric power supplies for an unmanned satellite of a few hundred pounds total weight are presented. The attitude of the satellite with respect to the earth's center is controlled within 10 degrees by utilizing the shadowing effect of the earth on the isotropic cosmic radiation. A number of Geiger counters are arranged so that they sense the location of the shadow cone of the earth. Signals resulting from the counting rates of the counters control fly wheels that cause the satellite to rotate around its center of gravity. Three sources for electric power are described, each of which delivers an average of about 100 watts. The first converts the sun's radiating energy with a silicon junction photoelectric generator. A sun-seeking device keeps the generator oriented toward the sun during daytime. In the second system, the sun's radiation is directed toward a pile of thermocouples made of ZnSb and constantan. Thermocouples have been built of these materials which convert solar energy into electric energy with an efficiency of 5.6%. The third method uses a radioactive, isotope, strontium 90, and its daughter product, yttrium 90, as heating element for a pile of thermocouples. The half life of strontium 90 is 20 years. Each of these three sources has a specific power production of the order of 0.4 to 0.7 watts per pound of weight. The attitude control system and the methods of power supply described are applicable also to larger satellites."
"The problem of converting raw data into a usable form for analysis has been one of long standing. Data recorders and plotters are of many types, and specific designs have been achieved to meet specific requirements. However, in most plotting and recording devices the printed grid is of some fixed nature and usually linear or logarithmic. If the plotting grid is not preprinted, some calibration technique must be applied to the plotted trace to determine the data values. In the data plotter to be described the function grids are produced simultaneously with the data trace, and may be made to conform with the transfer function of the system, whether linear or non-linear, and with the prescribed scale factor. Thus any arbitrary function may be plotted automatically without the requirement of linearity corrections in reading, provided the transfer characteristics are known beforehand."
"A perforated-tape reader is described which is simple in concept, is trouble-free and easy to operate and is very fast (1,000 characters per second). The reading head consists of six photo-electric cells to read standard five-channel tape. The sprocket hole is used for timing purposes. The design could easily be expanded for six-channel, seven-channel, or eight-channel tapes and for higher speed operation. However, no attempt is made to stop the tape on an individual character or between specific characters. This feature, while admittedly highly desirable in many applications, would complicate the mechanical design considerably and, in fact, would make the ultra high-speed extremely difficult if not impossible to achieve."
"For some purposes, such as storage of tables needed in computations, an electronic memory unit which does not have the capability of changing its contents may be used. The required information may therefore be permanently wired in at the time of construction or be changed only by manual operations. A memory of this type utilizing the presence or absence of a small neon tube as the memory element is presented here. The layout of the memory is in effect rows and columns of wires with the neon tubes connected at the appropriate intersections. The neon tube detects a ``coincident voltage'' at the intersection and the resultant light output is converted back to voltage by means of a photo tube."
"Several basic methods of obtaining navigational data for guided missiles are reviewed. These are grouped into methods of measurement of distance, velocity, and angle. A generalized approach is used to indicate the similarity between certain optical and radar measurement schemes."
"A digital data-gathering equipment provides facility for monitoring, recording and storing angular position data. It was developed under a Bureau of Ordnance contract for use in a synchro data transmission system but is not limited to this application. Two separate equipments comprise the system. A Data Recorder which accepts the electrical outputs of nine synchro generators (or less); converts the sine wave outputs to pulses; counts these to determine a time interval between the pulses representing the order and a reference pulse representing zero order; records the count on magnetic tape. The tape is applied to a laboratory equipment -- the Data Reproducer -- which, from the pulse code on the tape, makes trigger signals available to a card punching device which perforates a card in such manner as to completely express the position of the synchro generator shaft at the time of sample."
"One of the most cumbersome features in present methods of wind tunnel testing is data taking and data reduction. This is mainly because of instrumentation methods which require step by step procedures from raw data to reduced data. In many tests it would greatly enhance the test value if immediate indication of reduced parameters such as combustor efficiency or calculated thrust were available. One method being studied at the Engine Test Facility, Arnold Engineering Development Center, for providing these indications is through use of electronic analog computer equipment. One of the most involved equations encountered and the method of computing the reduced value is presented in this paper. The instrumentation for transducing the fundamental measurements is discussed. Finally, some conclusions are drawn about the accuracy and usefulness of such an instrument."
"The F. M. magnetic tape data storage system and associated equipment now in use at the Engine Test Facility of the Arnold Engineering Development Center are discussed in this paper. The requirements of an analog data storage system for wind tunnel testing of propulsion systems are established, and the methods by which these requirements are met by the present system are discussed. The input instrumentation and recording techniques are described; and the reduction of analog data from the storage system with oscillograph, spectrum analyzer, and plotting board is described. Sample data from engine tests are presented. The advantages of tape data storage for engine testing are discussed."
"An electronic multiplier has been developed which appears to bring to the art of analog computation some new and highly desirable features. This device has a dynamic range of 500 to 1 for an absolute accuracy of about 1%. Either or both analog voltages may vary arbitrarily with time, and may contain components in the frequency range from 0 to 150 sinusoidal cycles, products as low as 5mv-rms can be detected. The sensitivity of the instrument is denoted by the over-all attenuation of 3. The drift of the unit is less than 20 mv at the output over an 8hr period from a cold start. The above characteristics have been achieved by the application of what is known as the Differance in Magnitude Method. There are no balancing adjustments other than a dc level control located on the front panel. An attenuator is also provided for setting the input voltage to the proper level so as to provide maximum output voltage without overloading the instrument."
"This paper discusses how a magnetic storage drum may be used for the handling and processing of analogue data. The device described has a wide field of application in data recording, and possesses some unique features rendering it a valuable tool in analogue computation."
"An electronic system that automatically reads recording-voltmeter charts is explained. A photoelectric scanning process produces a pulse each time it samples the recorded graph. A commutating circuit in conjunction with a matrix of vacuum-tube gates places each pulse in an electric channel corresponding to the position of the line on the chart. A calibrating arrangement then sorts these pulses and supplies them to digital count registers. Selected groups of samples may then be utilized for various automatic digital computations."
"Spectral phonocardiography is the name applied to the process of analyzing heart sounds to provide a frequency-amplitude-time display. A segment of heart sound is recorded on a magnetic medium and then repeatedly analyzed by a heterodyne filter system. Because the bandwidth of a conventional filter determines both the frequency and the time resolution, a difficulty arises in that the selection of a wideband filter to obtain adequate time resolution leads to a poor frequency resolution and vice-versa. By using the fact that the phase-frequency characteristic of a filter is changing at resonance whereas its amplitude response is not, it is possible to obtain both good time and frequency resolution at the expense of amplitude information. This paper describes the application of this principle to the design of a phase filter and shows that it produces an analysis having some of the features of the sense of hearing. The design, construction, and operation of the phase filter for this application are described. Included are several sets of sonograms comparing results obtained with the conventional filter and with the phase filter. Suggested changes that could be incorporated in subsequent models are discussed."
"The Ordnance Dial Reader and Translator is an electronic data reduction machine designed specifically for the purpose of automatically reading the azimuth and elevation dial images of cinetheodolite films as produced in ballistic measurements of guided missile test flights. The data is applied to the machine in the form of 35 mm film records which may be either the double frame or single frame type. The machine handles double frame records at the rate of 10 dial images per second and the single frame records at the rate of 20 images per second. The time code, the degree values and the vernier readings of the dials are processed through the machine, translated into digital form and recorded on six channels of a standard digital computer tape. The magnetic tape is prepared in such a form as to be immediately applied to a digital computer of the type ERA-1103. Preparation of films for automatic reading requires only a minor modification of the theodolites. It is necessary to replace the existing glass circles and reticle plates with coded units especially engraved for automatic reading. The performance of the machine in digitizing the vernier reading is equivalent to that achieved by visual readers, the three sigma spread being approximately 6 seconds of arc in reading the half degree intervals."
"A device is described for reducing data automatically from certain continuous-wave radar systems, known as Doppler instrumentation systems The device counts the number of Doppler cycles occurring in an interval determined by augmenting a nominal, minimal interval just sufficiently to encompass an integer number of cycles. The variation in the length of the interval thereby determined is equal to the period of the lowest Doppler frequency measured and can, accordingly, be minimized by a judicious design for a given frequency range. The time length of the interval is determined to the nearest 10 microseconds by a digital counter driven by a reference frequency source. The input to the device is from a telemetry magnetic-tape playback unit, and the output is in the form of digital recordings suitable for input to a high-speed digital computer. Results obtained thus far indicate that accuracy is sufficient for the particular requirements at hand, and impressive savings in time compared with hand reductions are obtainable."
"Four basic high speed all electronic analog-to-digital conversion techniques are discussed. These are classified as spatial, time, and programmed and self-controlling feedback encoding. The basic methodology is described in each case and the operable speeds and resolutions are examined. For comparison, some electro-mechanical techniques in common use are noted."
"A method of electronic analog-digital conversion is presented which is based upon coder stages exhibiting either of two types of transfer functions characteristic of the binary code on one hand or the reflected binary or Gray code on the other. By cascading a multiplicity of such stages parallel digital outputs can be obtained continuously without any timing, synchronizing, or resetting operations. By the use of feedback employing only one such stage, a serial coder can be made."
"Sine-Cosine Angular Position Encoders are useful in coupling an analog device to a digital computer. The desired result is increased accuracy of the analog equipment and simplification of the digital equipment. An estimate is made of the accuracy that can be obtained from sine-cosine angular position encoders. It is shown that a balanced design results in a constant absolute error in the coded value of the function. When used to transform spherical to cartesian coordinates, this results in errors in the computed value of the cartesian coordinates that are constant fraction of the slant range. A geared system is described which permits an increase in accuracy. Special output switching requirements and special anti-ambiguity circuits are described which are required by the geared system. A prototype sine-cosine angular position encoder is described."
"An extremely compact, direct-reading, shaft-position encoder is described. A cyclical-binary code, expressed as clear and opaque areas in concentric rings, is printed photographically on a glass disk. A gas-discharge lamp placed radially to cover all channels is flashed periodically. The radiation transmitted through the disk causes voltage pulses, treated as binary ONEs, to be generated by those elements of a multielement PbS cell on which the light falls. Cell elements shielded by opaque areas of the code disk give no signal, a binary ZERO. Methods are described for serializing and converting the output to binomial-binary code. Sine-cosine codes are also described."
"A precision analog-to-digital converter has been developed for use in measuring parameters which appear as carrier output voltages from transducers. The analog-to-digital conversion is accomplished by means of a successive-approximation technique in which the unknown output of a transducer is matched to that of a precision relay-operated attenuator. A common a.c. carrier supply source is used for both the transducer and the attenuator so that any change in the excitation voltage does not affect the measurement accuracy. This also eliminates the necessity for a standard voltage source for the attenuator. The time required for digitization in the system described is 30 milliseconds, precision is one part in 3,000, and the sensitivity of the comparator device is such that a 5-microvolt change in the unknown voltage representing the parameter being measured is easily detected."
"Effective instrumentation requires the solution of many problems. This is usually hampered by a lack of clearly defined criteria and the difficulty is compounded by the semantic uncertainty of the generally used descriptive terminology. This paper suggests some logical definitions, and their mathematical equivalents, for the most common transduction qualities so as to allow the formation of applicable sets of measure criteria. These are not only use ful for numeric compoutation but also provide a means for the comparative evaluation of actual or proposed systems. Some basic properties of all transducers are considered with respect to the statistical aspects of input-output relations. With these presumed or measured, and the purpose of transduction specified, it should be possible to determine a mutually compatible set of criteria. It may include such measures as accuracy, reliability, tolerance, precision, readability, sensitivity, and others. The development of an appropriate weighting function for the specified set of applicable criteria can be used to form a meaningful figure of merit which will provide a single dimensional measure for the value of the transducer in relation to the function it is intended to perform."
"This paper discusses the requirements for industrial transducers for use with data handling systems. The most desirable form for the signal is discussed in some detail, and the general philosophy in the design of a group of transducers for this purpose described. Examples of systems using these transducers are given."
"Of the many different coding schemes possible, the 8-4-2-1 binary decimal code was felt to be the most useful for data handling systems. A transducer wes developed for converting shaft positions to digital numbers in this code. The converter is small, light weight, and produces 10,000 binary coded decimal numbers in 100 revolutions of the input shaft. No ambiguity of number presentations is possible due to the unique configuration of the commutating discs and the brush contacts."
"With the advent of higher speeds, more power, and in general the added complexity of today's engineering, the prime builders are forced to know more about the equipment they build. To know more about the equipment, they are forced to take more and better data, and in many cases the problem has become ponderous. This system has opened the door in that human handling of data has been almost completely eliminated. Two-hundred transducers can be sampled and presented as tabulated in eight minutes. Although faster systems are available today, it is difficult to justify their cost for quasi-static measurements. Figure 8 shows a typical 200-channel Sequential SADIC system."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"Presents letters to the editor."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"This paper is based on the case histories of twelve persons who were hired as B.S. degree graduates about twelve years ago to do electronic work at the Naval Research Laboratory. The potential value of the employees, based on information available at the time they were hired, is compared with their now established record. It is concluded that no reliable means existed for estimating the engineering and scientific potential of the individuals considered."
"From the figures presented, it has been demonstrated that engineers will be in short supply for the next twenty years. The effects on industry have been shown to be threefold: (1) a shortage of development engineers; (2) a shortage of engineers to serve a necessary function of management; and, (3) a far reaching effect on the military preparedness program. The possible solutions to this problem have been widely discussed in the literature. They are not as clearly presented as is the statement of the problem. At least, we have compiled the first phase of an engineering solution to a tough problem: a statement of the problem. We are now searching for possible solutions. If we proceed with the engineering approach, we will next choose one of these solutions and develop it to its fullest extent. At the end of this development period, we wil be ready to apply the solution to an industrial situation to achieve the desired end result."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"A strobe light system for high speed machinery has been developed with the following specifications: Flashing Rate: 3,000 to 60,000 fpm (flashes per minute) Light Pulse Width: 1 microsecond at one third intensity points Light Intensity: 10 candle power max. at 60,000 rpm This paper presents the circuitry with a discussion emphasizing the design of the strobe light pulser."
"This paper describes the electronic instrumentation of a device called an aerosoloscope for automatic counting and sizing of aerosol particles. This device relieves the chemist of the tedious and time-consuming job of counting the particles collected on a slide under the microscope. It has wide potential application in analyzing dusts fogs, smokes, etc. Particles from one to 64 microns in diameter and counting rates up to 100 particles per second are handled by the instrument. The aerosol is diluted and drawn across a high intensity light beam; a multiplier phototube receives a portion of the light energy scattered by each particle. The resulting electrical pulses are amplified and classified by size into 12 groups by a unique pulse height discriminator. Glow-transfer tubes and registers are used to count the pulses within the various groups. Dynamic range problems and system noise are briefly discussed."
"The applications that have been discussed above are representative of the more important industrial uses which have been found for industrial television equipment in the first few years since its inception. Undoubtedly many other applications are presently hidden by security requirements and by temporary competitive advantages which the user will not reveal. The broad industrial base gained by television since its pioneering stage, will undoubtedly lead to an increasing number of applications. Particularly in the fields of medicine and education, many additional applications will become available. Technical improvements are also indicated, as the equipment is adapted to meet a growing market in specific industries. An example of a future development which will further increase the usefulness of industrial television to industry is the direct application of the television signal to a specific control or inspection function, without the use of a picture display. This will provide visual inspection for many products while eliminating the tiring task and resulting errors of the inspector. Laboratory tests on bulk products such as chemicals and flour indicate that specks of foreign matter in these materials can be readily detected. Further developments are necessary to perfect a commercially acceptable system. At the present time television signals can only be transmitted over microwave equipment or coaxial cable. Both methods are relatively expensive. The reduction in these costs that would result from adapting television equipment for transmission over ordinary telephone lines, would open many additional applications."
"A capacity micrometer for the measurement of blade clearance in a turbine is described. The calibration of the instrument is non-linear with displacement, and clearances of the order of .030 to .001 inch may be measured with a nominal accuracy of  10 percent of the indicated reading. Measurements may be made at temperatures up to 1500F. by the use of water-cooled pickup probes, and with a frequency response from DC to 200,000 cycles per second. The stability of the measurement depends on the temperature stability of the pickup dielectric material. Pickup drift may be measured during operation and may be counteracted by a control on the instrument. Stable reference capacitors provide a means for checking zero drift and calibration independent of the pickup and cable. Examples of the application of the instrument to a variety of other displacement measurements are provided."
"Limitations of tape recording of amplitude modulated signals are: 1. Inherent frequency response of magnetic recording systems is not flat, necessitating compensation networks. 2. D-C signals cannot be recorded with conventional recording heads and circuits. 3. A variation of about 1 DB (12 per cent) can be expected in the characteristics of the magnetic material used on the tape. These limitations are overcome by using the signal to be recorded to change the frequency of an oscillator, which is in turn recorded on the tape. This f-m signal can be played back - if desired at a lower speed (and hence lower frequency) - to a demodulator, which retranslates the f-m signal into an a-m signal for direct writing recorders."
"The problems of controlling a nuclear reactor-steam electric power plant are associated both with nuclear reactor control and with control of the integrated system, which includes the reactor as a heat source. The problems can be attacked by appropriate use of existing methods for analyzing controlled systems. Existing nuclear power plants demonstrate the feasibility of using these methods. They also indicate that not all the problems are completely solved."
"A special machine tool built by the Bendix Aviation Corporation utilizes numerical control techniques to simplify the manufacture of small three-dimensional cams. The machine is designed to produce master cams and engineering prototypes directly from numerical control information recorded on a punched plastic tape. This information is derived from dimensional data appearing on an engineering drawing by means of automatic punched-card office accounting equipment. The machine resembles a small lathe in basic configuration, except that a high-speed ball-end milling cutter is substituted for the tool. The cutter is positioned radially by a high-performance hydraulic servo in response to incremental control signals generated electronically from the punched tape. An over-all accuracy of approximately 0.001 inch is achieved from drawing to finished cam."
"The Raytheon Two Motion Duplicator for machine tools is discussed with emphasis on the vector operations performed by the electronic circuitry to accomplish constant velocity tracing of a two dimensional contour. Two low level 60 cycle voltages are obtained from the follower (an electro magnetic transducer) when its stylus is brought in contact with a templet which represents the contour to be traced. These two voltages, representing the resolved components of stylus deflection, are the input vectors to the system and are operated on to produce, eventually, two DC voltages of complementary magnitudes, which determine the speeds of two motors through thyratron power stages. The motors drive leadscrews which continuously position the machine element carrying both follower and cutting tool. The relative motor speeds are so controlled and corrected by interpreting amplitude and phase information of follower out-put signals that the path of the follower and cutting tool duplicates the templet contour."
"The hysteresis loss that occurs in magnetic devices subjected to changing magnetic fields usually represents a detrimental condition. One exception, however, is the hysteresis clutch where this loss is utilized to perform a useful function. One particular type1 clutch is described and its chief mechanical and electrical features are summarized. Its utility as a variable speed drive is also illustrated."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Continuous exposure to a field intensity of 0.001 watt per square centimeter appears to cause no harmful effects to either animals or men. It is neither difficult nor expensive to make and use monitoring instruments to find out whether or not fields in excess of 0.001 watt per square cm exist in an area. It is well to remember that microwaves may be greatly intensified by reflections from objects which do not reflect light well. Consequently, it is necessary to use instruments sensitive to the microwaves in inspecting an area and to move them about the whole area to find out whether or not it is safe."
"Radio-frequency power generators have been widely used in many industrial heating operations. Limited applications have been made in the treatment of food, where internally induced heat has been used to inactivate enzymes, as well as to pasteurize or sterilize the material."
"This study is essentially an extension of the work of Daily, et al. [1, 2] and Richard, et al. [3], who demonstrated that 12.3-cm radiation could produce lens opacities in the eyes of animals. Because of the broader implication of their findings in terms of human analogy, this present investigation was designed to gain some idea of what microwave power densities should be considered dangerous for human exposure. Both wavelength and power densities used for this purpose are of interest in the applied fields of microwave diathermy, radar communications, and microwave research."
"Power input up to 1.6 kw is used in electronic ovens operating at 2,450 mc for cooking, heating, and defrosting foods. Some important considerations in microwave cooking are sizes of food masses, comparable processing time, residual cooking, normalcy in results, special surface effects, the relation between process time and food load size, and the effect on nutrients."
"Work now in progress on the biological effects of high intensity 10-cm microwave fields has been accompanied by studies on heat exchange characteristics of rats, rabbits, and dogs irradiated under relatively free field conditions. These studies include measurements of field intensity and distribution as well as of body temperatures. Determination of initial heating rates, steady-state body temperatures, and cooling rates permitted estimation of thermal characteristics including absorption and certain heat exchange parameters as an aid in interpretation of biological effects."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in the conference."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The development stages of the instrumentation system for displaying the three dimensions of heart sounds, time, frequency and intensity are described. The heart sounds and physiological data are recorded on magnetic tape. The tape information is repetitively played back, filtered and presented as intensity modulation on cathode-ray tubes having a slow TV type raster where the horizontal sweep represents time in the cardiac cycle and the vertical represents frequency. The resulting patterns which are photographed and visually monitored are used for research, teaching and diagnosis."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"In recent experiments J. C. Lilly has obtained contour maps, in rapid sequence, depicting electrical activity over selected areas of the cortex of an animal's brain. The present work has been an attempt to improve the resolution in both time and space of this mapping technique. Adequate resolution requires more than 200 electrodes covering a square centimeter of the cortex. A complete map must be observed 500 to 1,000 times a second. In order to handle the required number of information channels, a time-division switching system has been devised. The electrodes are divided into groups of sixteen. Simultaneously operating switching units commutate the information within the respective groups. An amplifier for each group passes a train of samples representing the potentials at the electrodes of that group. These simultaneous sample trains can be recorded on multitrack magnetic tape. Later the sampled information can be displayed in map form, e.g., on a cathode-ray screen. The electronic switching of the 16 electrode signals in a group takes place after a single stage of preamplification for each electrode. The switching elements are matched pairs of silicon junction diodes connected, with resistances, in bridge circuits. A master pulse generator operates all the switching units. The system is sensitive to electrode potentials of about 30v."
"The electric potential produced by a current dipole located arbitrarily within a finite length circular conducting cylinder is obtained in the form of a double summation. The impulse function is employed to satisfy the end cap boundary condition and to reduce a definite integral to a summation. Special cases include expressions for potentials on the cylinder surface and in an infinite slab of conducting medium bounded by two parallel planes."
"Quantitative measurement of the characteristics of microscopic objects has become an increasingly important technique particularly in the field of biology. This paper describes an instrument used for obtaining the size and optical density of objects on the specimen slide. Although methods for making these measurements have long been available, they are usually tedious and time-consuming, and little attention has been paid to the adaptation of the system to human requirements for comfort and ease. This is particularly true for cytological measurements where variations in individual cells are such that large numbers of cells must be selected before, the results are statistically significant. A projection system overcomes many of the disadvantages of the other methods by not constraining the eyepoint to a fixed position, permitting direct measurement of size or area with a scale or planimeter, and allowing the photometer field to stop to be always under direct visualization. The design, and performance of a projection microphotometer and its application to several biological measurement problems is thoroughly discussed."
"On the following pages appear abstracts of papers presented at the three sessions organized and sponsored by the Professional Group on Medical Electronics during the 1956 WESCON Convention, August 21-24, Los Angeles, CA, USA. Three of these papers appear in full elsewhere in this issue. It is hoped that additional papers will be published in subsequent issues."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"The success of computers in doing routine work formerly done by people suggests that a computer capable of adjusting itself to a changing environment might be desirable. Such a characteristic might be especially valuable to the telephone industry which must service large numbers of people having changing needs and desires. As a step in this direction a relay machine which plays a penny-matching game with human opponents has been built. The machine is described and its behavior against people and other machines discussed."
"A new high-speed data-accumulation system has been designed for a supersonic wind tunnel. The data are recorded on punched paper tape for direct input into an Electrodata digital computer. Extensive presentation of data is available to the wind-tunnel operators. All data are typed by an electric typewriter, and an automatic plotting machine plots several of the data words as functions of the independent-variable data word. Special codes to control the computer are automatically punched into the tape. The preliminary source of the data may be either manually operated keyboards or shaft-position digitizers. The new system increases the wind-tunnel pace, eliminates intermediate data handling before computation, and lowers the cost of data reduction."
"This paper describes a general method for modifying conventional binary asynchronous counters such that the counting register advances by any desired odd integer for each received count. The pertinent design features of conventional additive and subtractive asynchronous counters are reviewed. Simplification of the design of a counter which advances by an odd integer is achieved through use of a set of alternately additive and subtractive subcounters. An example of the logical design of a counter which advances by 13 is presented."
"The complexity of an electronic switching circuit is defined in a sufficiently general way so that most definitions which are presently used may be included. If (p, q) is the complexity of a p input q output circuit which has been minimized then we may define E(p, q) as the maximum of (p, q) over all p input, q output circuits. In spite of the generality of the definition of complexity one may obtain the following inequality which gives upper and lower bounds on this maximum complexity: C12r/rE(p, q)C22r/r where r = p+log2 q. In this expression C1 and C2 are constants independent of p and q which depend upon the definition of complexity. These theoretical bounds are compared with those obtained from a few known circuiit designs."
"The application of Minnick and Ashenhurst's technique of p-fold multiple-coincidence magnetic storage in an n x n array of cores is shown to require finding (p-2) orthogonal Latin squares of order n. The value of this technique lies in the reduction it effects in the disturbance of unselected cores. A method is suggested for reducing this disturbance to a level lower than that obtained by Minnick and Ashenhurst, by the application of reverse currents to the unselected interrogating wires during interrogation. The disturbance of unselected cores can be reduced to zero if p=n+1. In this case, (n+1) cores can be added to the store at the expense of a single additional interrogating wire. The resulting array of cores and interrogating wires is closely related to the finite projective geometry of order n."
"The sine curve is approximated by a set of straight line segments whose slopes are chosen to be integral multiples of a binary fraction. A programmed counter counts up or down at a rate proportional to the slope, thus generating an approximate sine function. Using (360/256)1.4 degree intervals and four integral slopes, 0(1/128), 1(1/128), 2(1/128), 3(1/128), the maximum difference between the true and the generated value is 0.014 and occurs at 36.6 degrees. The extension of this method to higher accuracy and to other functions is indicated."
"A time-division multiplier for analog computers is described. Its features, for a switching pulse frequency of 2,000 cycles per second, are as follows: an accuracy of one part in a thousand, a pass band of 2 cycles per second, an input impedance of one megohm, and a very low output impedance (the output impedance of a feedback amplifier). This multiplier has the following advantages when compared to two other types of analog multipliers: a) an accuracy limited solely by the stability of the components used and the fineness of the adjustments that can be made; b) a pass band greater than that of servo-mechanism multipliers; c) a much smaller amount of material than is necessary for diode multipliers with translators having parabolic characteristics and adjustments which can be made much more rapidly (although requiring a certain amount of practice); d) the possibility of changing the diodes without having to repeat all the adjustments. These results have been obtained by the development of a precision electronic switch and by compensation of the stray capacities of the tubes."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Contents of Volume EC-4-1955."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"An analysis of the functional representation of the carry digits in the addition process shows that the one-megacycle circuitry of SEAC and DYSEAC can be organized logically to permit the formation of many successive carries simultaneously. The Boolean expression for any carry digit Ck can be expanded so as to be an explicit function of only the input digits of orders k to k-p+1 and of the carry digit Ck-p. Certain factorizations can then be made to simplify these expressions so that all of them fall within the limitations on the gating complexity imposed by the circuitry. A parallel adder utilizing this principle is developed which is capable of adding two 53-bit numbers in one microsecond, with relatively few additional components over those required in a parallel adder of more conventional design."
"This paper describes a small coincident-current memory used for buffer storage. Such a memory as part of the self-checking card-to-magnetic-tape converter, an auxiliary of the Univac System, is now in production. Typical advantages of a small coincident-current memory in computer input-output equipment, as well as some of the problems encountered in its application, are described. This memory affords the card-to-tape converter a great degree of flexibility, making it possible to read cards sidewise and to check and edit information with a minimum of hardware and complexity. Memory cells consist of metallic-tape cores wound with multi-turn coils. The low currents required permit operation of the memory directly from the card-sensing brushes on writing and from a diode function-table on reading. The functional aspects of the memory and its associated electrical circuitry are described. Information concerning the physical nature of the memory, specifications of the cores, and some of the tests performed in their inspection is also presented."
"Many papers have been written about the reflected binary system and it is well known in the computer field for analog-to-digital conversion. The method used in creating this system may be extended to systems of bases other than two. It is the purpose of this paper to carry this extension to its logical conclusion. The author describes how reflected systems of different bases may be composed. The equations for translating between the conventional and reflected systems are then derived. It is also demonstrated how the reflected binary system is a special case of reflected number systems and how the general case simplifies for the reflected binary case."
"This article describes the use of a multigrid vacuum tube as an AM multigrid modulator multiplier. The accuracy of the multiplier is dependent only upon the linear properties of the vacuum tube used and not upon careful adjustment of the operating potentials. It is unusual that such a simple device should give a range of 78 db with only a 2 per cent full scale error. The advantages and also restrictions of this device along with a complete range of dynamic performance are included in this article."
"A system of electronic analog computing is described in which current is used as the variable. The paper indicates that the circuit properties of transistors make them especially suitable for use in operational amplifiers for this computing technique. Experimental direct-coupled amplifiers are shown which have been built and evaluated using low-power, low-frequency transistors. The amplifiers have been employed under laboratory conditions to perform the operations of summation, scale-change, integration, and differentiation. The factors which determine computing accuracy are analyzed, and a new technique of error prediction (based on square-wave output) is discussed. The paper concludes that the current-analog method promises to use transistors effectively."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"The use of high gain amplifiers is shown to be helpful in the representation of constraints. This method enables one to represent constrained systems in a manner such that all coordinates are available for the application of arbitrary forces or displacements. The procedure is explained by means of an example."
"A three, and a two winding per core, high-speed, current driven, one core per bit shift register is presented together with an analysis of the basic circuit involved. An intermediate storage capacitor is used between successive logical elements. The charge and discharge of this capacitor are controlled in a positive manner by voltage blocking pulses. The undesired feedback of energy from one stage to earlier stages is thereby prevented, giving high efficiency of operation. The three winding per core register described is reversible and capable of operating in the megacycle range. The application of the basic shift register element to computer logic applications is described."
"The problem of designing high-speed flip-flops has been approached by dividing the circuit operation into steady-state and switching functions, the steady-state function being assigned to a slave flip-flop and the switching function to a driving circuit. Circuits, using conventional components and having a resolving time of 10msec, are described. Resolving times as low as 2msec have been attained by using a special beam-deflection tube as the slave flip-flop. These circuits dissipate considerably less power in the intervals between switching than conventional circuits."
"The topology of the n-dimensional cube is used to reduce the problem of determining the minimal forms of a Boolean function of n variables to that of finding the minimal coverings of the essential vertices of the basic cell system associated with the given function. The proof of this statement is contained in the central Theorem 4. A numerical easily programmed procedure is given with which it is possible to treat problems with a greater number of variables than has heretofore been practical. The procedure by-passes the determination of the basic cells (the prime implicants of W. V. Quine) and locates the essential vertices, from which in turn the irredundant and minimal forms are obtained."
"The reliability and performance which can be achieved in high-speed switching circuits using presently available high-frequency junction transistors suggests the use of transistor circuits in preference to more conventional circuits for many applications. The area of airborne digital computers is one in which the physical characteristics of the transistor as well as of associated low dissipation components can be most favorably exploited. We have presented here a group of circuits which fulfill the requirements of speed, low dissipation, size, and weight for most such applications. The circuits shown will operate over the range -30C to +60C, and actually have been operated over the range -50C to +90C. Low dissipation of the circuits places minimum requirements on power supplies, and temperature control may be achieved with only a small amount of cooling. An estimate can be obtained from an example. For a large-scale computer, say 2000 transistors, 800 of which are in bistable circuits, total dissipation will be less than 140 watts."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"Ferroelectric shift registers having completely independent parallel or serial inputs and outputs have been designed and constructed. The principal components of these shift registers are single crystals of barium titanate and silicon junction diodes. Two ferroelectric units and two to three silicon junction diodes are required for each stage of the shift register. Practical operating speeds for 10-stage shift registers with transistor drives are at present from 0 to 5 kc. The small size of the ferroelectric units and the low power consumption in this speed range make the ferroelectric shift register attractive for many digital circuit applications."
"This paper describes junction transistor switching circuits capable of reliable operation at a clock rate of one megacycle. These circuits, consisting of a flip-flop, a gated pulse amplifier, and diode gates, consume a minimum of power and operate over a temperature range of -55 C to +85C with complete transistor interchangeability. Applications of these circuits to binary counters, shift registers, and accumulators are also presented."
"A system of four diodes in a series-parallel connection is combined with dc operational amplifiers in order to accomplish a variety of computational operations. The diode circuit is equivalent to a SPST switch survey or a voltage pulse. When inserted in series with the input of an amplifier or an analog memory, the switch makes possible waveform sampling or waveform quantizing of the input voltage. Other functions, such as the fast discharge of an integrator, are also achieved. A very significant application of the diode switch in computer circuitry is its use in combination with a multiplier and a storer (a bank of integrators) in order to obtain autocorrelation or cross-correlation of messages after they have been translated into voltages. A commutator or a ring counter is employed to provide the switching pulse. The correlator has the advantage of generating the correlation function concurrently with the message without necessitating previous recording and repeated playback."
"The representation of a wide variety of nonlinear functions by means of the interconnection of unstabilized operational amplifiers is discussed. The nonlinear functions described include rectification, saturation functions, coulomb friction, dead space, and starting friction. The use of operational amplifiers alone to produce square waves and triangular waves, as well as gating operations, is also discussed. These latter circuits are combined to give a time division multiplier using only standard operational amplifiers as components. Accuracy capabilities for all of these nonlinear operations are the order of 0.01 to 1 per cent."
"Due to the physical unrealizability of electronic adding and integrating circuits with ideal characteristics, errors will be introduced in the solution of differential equations obtained by the use of electrical analog computers. Numerical errors in the solution will be introduced by fluctuations in the value of plate and of grid supply voltages, changes in the values of circuit components, and changes in the values of the vacuum tube constants. In addition, the limited frequency response of the machine components will cause the computer to solve a characteristic equation of a higher order than the original characteristic equation whose solution is desired. The error in the solution manifests itself as a shifting in the roots of the original characteristic equation as well as the production of some extra roots. The effect of this change in the root position as well as the presence of the extra roots is experienced in the curve of the solution as a function of the independent variable. In a paper on the accuracy of differential analyzers, Macnee1 has derived an expression which gives the value of the characteristic root shift. The use of this expression is accurate only for certain types of ordinary differential equations. In this paper a new expression for the value of the root shift is derived. The analysis preceding the new root-shift expression is developed in such a manner as to include the Macnee analysis as a special case."
"Circuits for the recycling of pulses by means of a driving tube and an electromagnetic delay line have been developed, The necessary characteristic for the driving tube is shown and the effects of the delay line on the amplitude and width of pulses with respect to recycling operation are explained. Two modes of operation of these circuits are possible. One mode of operation allows any number of pulses in a recycling period, the number being limited only by the time space on the delay line. The other mode restricts the number of pulses in a recycling period to a particular value. Experimental circuits are shown which have been used as generators of pulses as short as 5 millimicroseconds at frequencies as high as 50 mc. Other circuits are shown which can be used as memory circuits for the storage of a number of these short pulses."
"The IBM 705 memory system utilizes magnetic cores both as a storage element and also in a matrix address selection system. The magnetic core has been established as a memory element for large data processing machines. The core compares very favorably with other means of storage with respect to such factors as speed, reliability, size, cost, life, and simplicity of associated electronic circuitry. The memory consists of a main 20,000 character unit and a 512 character storage unit. Both are three-dimension coincident current systems with the larger containing 35 planes of 4000 cores each and the other consisting of seven planes of 512 cores each. The basic memory cycle is 9 s long when operating with the input-output units or on internal transfer of data. When operating with the central processing unit a 17-s cycle is required. Data may be transferred within memory in five character blocks, and the five character instructions are transmitted to the control unit in one-memory cycle. Transfers between memory and the input-output and arithmetic units is serial by character. Use of the magnetic core matrix switch greatly reduces the electronic equipment required to drive the memory. Simplified circuitry requiring no adjustments eliminates any maintenance time required for making routine adjustments. Indefinite life of the core eliminates any replacement problem of the basic storage element itself."
"This paper presents the general aspects of the component development program for the AN/FSQ-7 Air Defense Computer. The requirements of the system for high reliability and long life necessitate proper selection of the type of component, proper specification of the component to the manufacturer, and proper component application by the circuit design engineer. The component development program has made free use of ideas from the computer industry and the component industry."
"Extreme reliability resulting in no unscheduled down-time and a low ratio of scheduled maintenance to operate time was the objective of the AN/FSQ-7 design program. The circuit design philosophy of this program is presented. In addition, an approach is given whereby the concept of marginal checking is applied to determine quantitatively 1) the relative reliability of computer circuits and 2) that a margin of safety consistent with the circuit design philosophy existed. An Appendix is included setting forth actual examples in a qualitative manner."
"Marginal checking by varying supply voltages for some time has been a means of preventive maintenance for electronic systems. Some important innovations have been employed in the marginal checking system of the AN/FSQ-7 air defense computer to give a more effective high-speed preventive maintenance technique. Completely automatic preventive maintenance testing is discussed incorporating program control of the marginal checking system."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The problem of determining a harmonic time-varying electromagnetic field where the electric vector assumes prescribed values for its tangential components over given spherical or conical boundaries and which has proper radiation characteristics at infinity is considered by a procedure very much like that used in the theory of slots in waveguide walls. The technique used in solving this type of boundary value problem is to establish, by an application of the Lorentz Reciprocity Theorem, a Green's function which represents the electric and magnetic fields of a point generator (infinitesimal dipole) applied at an arbitrary position on the conducting surface where the fields satisfy homogeneous boundary conditions. The total fields for an arbitrary source are then obtained by superposition; i.e., direct integration over the aperture. Since detailed results for the case of a sphere have been obtained by many authors, we confine the details of the technique to the infinite cone. It is assumed that in each case the tangential components of the electric vector are given functions over the entire boundary surface. The results apply directly to the theory of radiating apertures in a perfectly conducting spherical wall or a cone, since the tangential components of the electric vector are different from zero only in the area of the aperture, where it is presumed they are known. The results are also applicable to scattering by conducting spheres and cones, since the tangential electric field components over the boundary surfaces are the negative of those of the incident field. To illustrate the applicability and the limitations of the results, we shall present the formal solutions for arbitrarily shaped apertures on cones and apply them to the several types of delta slots which are usually discussed in connection with other radiating structures."
"The pattern in a half-space of a slot in the wall of a waveguide is a function of the terminating impedance. The description of the far fields in such a configuration is simplified considerably by the adoption of a network viewpoint, whereby the half-space is represented approximately by two (or more) spherical transmission lines, the feeding waveguide by a single uniform transmission line, and the slot by a coupling network which is directly analogous to that for a hybrid junction. For a given waveguide termination, the spherical mode voltages are computed by a simple network calculation, and the gain pattern is obtained by modal synthesis. The slot equivalent circuit parameters are obtained readily by simple measurements or from available theoretical formulas. Described in detail both theoretically and experimentally is a symmetric rectangular slot cut in either the broad or narrow face of a rectangular waveguide."
"Data is presented to show the reduction in size and increase in radiation resistance and bandwidth of the disk-loaded folded monopole as compared with a disk-loaded monopole of the same electrical length. The ratio of diameters of the folded part to the diameter of the driven part was varied for one series of impedance measurements and the axial spacing between the driven part and folded part was varied for another series. The resonant radiation resistance and resonant length may be varied almost independently. The radiation resistance depends upon the ratio of diameter of the folded part to the diameter of the driven part, and the resonant length depends upon axial spacing. The radiation resistance multiplication factor relative to a disk-loaded monopole of the same electrical length is approximately the same as the multiplication factor of a folded dipole relative to a dipole. The disk-loaded folded monopole has a greater bandwidth than an unloaded monopole of the same wavelength-to-diameter ratio. Where the effective diameter1 of the folded antenna is 2DdS, its radiation pattern is essentially that of an unloaded monopole."
"Using an idea recently suggested by the author,1 a table is presented from which the gain of all electromagnetic horns may be calculated with substantially the same accuracy obtainable using the gain formula. The exact parameters of an optimum horn are given, and a simple procedure for the design of optimum horns with a specified gain and other desirable properties is described."
"Two microwave lenses whose surfaces have been matched respectively by embedded capacitive walls and by simulated quarter-wave transformers were built and compared experimentally to an unmatched lens of identical aperture and focal length. At the design frequency, the matched lenses exhibited reductions in side-lobe level of 14 and 10 db with respect to the unmatched lens, and increases in over-all gain of 0.35 and 0.1 db. The input vswr of the feed horn was reduced from 1.6 for the unmatched case to 1.02 and 1.05 for the matched cases. The bandwidth of good performance for the two lenses ranged from l per cent to at least 44 per cent"
"The reflections from the surface of a dielectric lens may be cancelled by a quarter-wavelength layer of refractive index intermediate between that of air and the lens medium. The possibility of simulating a quarter-wave matching section by perturbing the boundary of the lens is described in this paper. Some of the configurations considered are corrugated surfaces, arrays of dielectric cylinders, and arrays of holes in the dielectric surface. In each case, a match may be obtained at a given frequency and angle of incidence by the proper adjustment of the depth of the perturbation, and of one other parameter such as the width of a groove."
"This paper describes the design, construction, and testing of a Foster scanner that is much simpler to build than the conventional Foster scanner. The simplifications result from the use of a choke groove and a solid barrier to replace the conventional inter-leaving finger barriers. The choke groove and solid barrier are very simple to construct, give excellent electrical performance, and permit very high scan rates. A scanner has been built and tested at 35 kmc, where the tolerance problems are very severe, and found to perform extremely well over at least a 10 per cent frequency bandwidth."
"The distribution of surface current density on a perfectly conducting half-plane excited by an infinite axial slot is determined. The slot is assumed to be of small width and it is excited throughout its length by a uniform transverse voltage. It is shown that the surface currents which flow toward the edge of the half-plane are somewhat smaller than they would be if they were on an infinite plane. For sake of comparison the surface currents of an infinite axial slot on a thin elliptic cylinder or ribbon are also examined"
"Studies were made of the scattering of electromagnetic waves from nonspherical targets by making exact determination of the nose-on radar back-scattering cross sections of conducting prolate spheroids of various sizes and shapes. Curves are given for the back-scattered cross sections as a function of dimensionless size and shape parameters for prolate spheroids. The results are compared with the Rayleigh-Gans first order approximation and Stevenson's third-order approximation, and the range of applicability of these approximations is evaluated."
"This paper presents the results of an experimental investigation which led to the development of cavity-mounted helical antennas for airborne applications. The effects on patterns and impedance of various antenna parameters, such as number of turns, cavity size and shape, helix pitch, angle, and conductor size, were investigated. Methods of feeding the helix which produce an input impedance near 50 ohms, without external compensation, throughout the axial mode frequency range are discussed. Some of the types of cavity-mounted helices developed and typical performance data are described."
"This paper describes the radiation pattern of the un-symmetrically-fed prolate spheroidal transmitting antenna. Maxwell's equations are solved in prolate spheroidal coordinates subject to the boundary conditions. The prolate spheroidal functions are expressed in the form of power series and Laurent series. Radiation patterns have been obtained for antennas of three different lengths up to about one wavelength long, for length/thickness ratios of about 5/1, 10/1,22/1, and 316/1, and for nine unsymmetrical gap locations as well as for the symmetrically-fed cases. It was found that the two most important factors affecting the radiation pattern of a fairly thin antenna were the location of the gap and the electrical length. For antennas less than a half wavelength long, the pattern was the usual symmetrical figure eight and was essentially independent of the location of the gap (except for magnitude changes due to the different gap impedances). For antennas two-thirds to three-quarters of a wavelength long the figure eight patterns could be \"bent\" in the direction of the longer element, and for antennas one wavelength long or longer minor lobes began to appear."
"An equation for the on-axis gain of a uniformly illuminated rectangular aperture is derived which is valid in the \"Optical Fresnel Zone.\" This equation is formulated in terms of the ordinary radiation field gain multiplied by a correction factor which depends upon the aperture dimensions and the distance, R, from the aperture at which the gain is measured. A table of the function [C2(v)+S(v)]/v2 is given; C(v) and S(v) being the Fresnel integrals. The gain of a square aperture (LXL meters) in the Fresnel-zone region is compared with the gain of a circular aperture and it is shown that for apertures of equal Gsquare < Gcircle when (L2/&#x003BB;) <R &#x02264;(2L2 &#x003BB;); it is also shown that Gsquare has minima, but not zeros at R=L2/7.30&#x003BB;, R=L2/5.24&#x003BB;. Furthermore it is shown that for R&#x003BB;L2/2&#x003BB; the first order gain correction factor of a square aperture is equal to the gain correction factor of a circular aperture having a diameter equal to 1.208 times the sidelength of the square. An approximate formula for the Fresnel-zone gain of a long and narrow aperture is also given."
"Equations are derived which relate the far-zone scattered field, as measured in the shadow zone of an electromagnetic scatterer, to the total energy scattered and absorbed by the scatterer. In the case of a perfectly conducting scatterer, the energy stored in the fields about the scatterer is also related to the far-zone scattered field in the shadow zone."
"This note reports HF observations of meteoric back-scatter echoes at ranges greatly exceeding radio line-of-sight. The observations were part of a program of measurements on backscatter using COZI equipment, Examples are given of observations at South Dartmouth, Massachusetts in 1949 on 16 mc and of more recent observations in 1954 on 12 and 16 mc using improved equipment. Short duration echoes are observed in advance at ranges shorter than those of the ground backscatter. No such meteoric echoes are observed when the ground backscatter disappears. The meteoric echo ranges move with time of day just as the range to the ground backscatter moves. A plausible explanation for the observed meteoric echo ranges exceeding 1,000 miles is that they are due to backscatter from the trail, ionospherically propagated to and fro via the F region, just as the ground backscatter. Other possible ionospheric propagation modes are discussed"
"A study has been made of the correlation in transmission loss observed over irregular-terrain paths. Simultaneous mobile measurements were made of two pairs of VHF broadcasting stations in the Washington, D. C-Baltimore, Maryland area. The correlation coefficients derived from sample sets of transmission loss data indicate that when reception is from opposite directions, no significant correlation is evident, and when the paths of propagation are the same even though the frequencies are separated considerably, the correlation appears to be significantly high."
"THE PRESENCE of radiation in the shadow zone of an antenna depends upon surface currents that flow away from the optically lighted region. Minimizing this shadow illumination requires control of these surface currents. For example, even with a large cylinder (circumference =40) excited by an infinite axial slot, the shadow zone of the theoretical pattern has maxima 90 from the slot which are down only 3 db, and others 180 away only 28 db below the power level at 0. This paper is an experimental study of methods of controllino: shadow zone illumination."
"THE DIFFICULTY of rapid scanning over the outer surface of a Luneberg lens has led Gutman1 to devise a lens in which the feed moves on a smaller radius. In Gutman's lens the feed horn points toward the center of the lens and the center section, which rotates during the scan, also serves as a focusing region. In some applications it would be desirable to point the feed horn outward and reserve this center section for rf components. The rotational torque required could also be reduced considerably thereby. We assume throughout that the lens must be radially symmetric to allow 360 of scan."
"D. K. Cheng.:1 In a recent article, Lechtreck presented a number of radiation patterns for rectangular apertures with quadratic phase errors. I would like to make several comments about that article."
"A SYMPOSIUM on Normal Mode Theory was convened, under the chairmanship of Dr. S. A. Schelkunoff, at the Navy Electronics Laboratory on July 5, 6, and 7, 1955. This symposium consisted of an informal trip to Palomar Mountain on July 5 and a round-table discussion on July 6-7 for the purpose of exchanging ideas about the present state of theoretical knowledge of wave propagation through stratified media, the known methods of attack, and the outstanding unanswered questions. Although the emphasis was on normal mode theory, the possibility of extending the ray theory of physical optics was explored. The following list of topics was on the agenda:"
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"A CONTOURING control system is a position control system whose primary function is to position the cutter of a machine tool in accordance with the contours of a template. The General Electric Company's contouring control system consists of both electrical and mechanical elements. The electrical elements are the electronic amplifiers, networks, amplidyne, and motor, and the mechanical elements are the gears, shafts, lead screws, and machine slides which compose the mechanical drives of the machine tool. In determining the performance of a contouring control system, each of these elements must be considered by itself and in relation to the other elements of the system."
"A new method of studying the transient response of a large class of nonlinear feedback control systems to a step input has been developed. The basis of the new method is quasi-linearization by which the nonlinear system is converted to an equivalent linear model, subject to certain limitations. Evaluation of the transient characteristics of the quasilinearized system through linear servo techniques furnishes an insight to the problem of designing the nonlinear feedback control system to meet its prescribed transient response."
"A generalized block diagram representation of the signal transfer properties of d-c machine systems with various kinds of feedback is developed in terms of gain factors, time constants, and feedback ratios, including the mutual coupling effects between windings and the nonlinear effects produced by saturation. The resulting formulation of the dynamic properties is simple enough to permit a rapid evaluation of the action of feedback in d-c machine systems and therefore to help in determining which feedback combinations will secure a desired system performance."
"THE rapid expansion of industrial plant distribution systems in recent years has caused many new problems for the plant design engineer. It has also accentuated certain problems that in the past caused little concern. Surge protection for the plant system is one of these latter problems."
"THE LAPLACE transform method for analyzing the transient response of feedback systems is laborious.1 Synthesis by this method is almost impracticable. The graphical methods which were developed by Nyquist, Bode, Evans, and others allowed the analysis and synthesis of linear feedback systems to be made with considerably less effort.2,3,4 Methods using infinite series to approximate the transient response from the open-loop transfer function were developed by Tustin, and earlier by Bedford and Fredendall.5,6"
"THE problem of force reflection, or feel, has been of interest to designers of remotely controlled manipulators for the past several years. Systems have been designed and built which demonstrate both the possibilities and difficulties inherent in any attempt to obtain such feel characteristics.1,2 In addition, more complicated systems have been built in attempts to overcome such difficulties,3 and reports outlining the general feel problem of manipulators and suggest courses of further study have appeared in the literature.4 It is the purpose of this paper to present an analogue study of a basic force-reflecting positional system along with a companion dynamic analysis upon which any desired stability or synthesis study may be based."
"THE SYNTHESIS of a feedback control system is usually performed in terms of its frequency response, but system performance is best evaluated in terms of its transient response. Consequently, it is desirable to be able to relate transient response as directly as possible to frequency response. Although it is difficult to derive exact yet general mathematical relationships between these two responses, a great many reliable approximations can be found. This paper developed many of the most important of these approximations by examining and comparing the transient responses for a number of different types of feedback control transfer functions."
"A static phase converter is a device which supplies polyphase power to a load from a single-phase power source using only passive circuit elements. Ideally such a device should produce balanced polyphase voltages at the load. Several recent articles1,2,3 have been published concerning the operation of 3-phase induction motors connected through static phase converters to single-phase lines. These articles discuss the simple form of phase converter using only capacitors. This capacitor-only type of phase converter can be adjusted to give balanced 3-phase power only for loads possessing a lagging power factor of 0.5. For any other load it is impossible to obtain balanced conditions. In contrast, the Add-A-Phase phase converter, consisting of an autotransformer in addition to the capacitors, may be set to supply balanced 3-phase power to any load possessing a lagging power factor regardless of its value. This more general type of phase converter circuit will be referred to in this article as the autotransformer type of phase converter. At the point at which balanced operation occurs with an induction motor load, the speed, torque, horsepower, efficiency, and other motor quantities will be identical to those obtained when the motor is connected to a balanced 3-phase power source of the same voltage."
"PERHAPS the most important single protective device in any aircraft electric system is the overvoltage relay. Overvoltage conditions cannot only cause serious damage to connected load equipment and to the power generation equipment, if not removed, but can cause the loss of the entire electric power system. Overvoltage relays are designed to have inverse time-voltage characteristics because most of the damage caused by overvoltage is because of overheating. To obtain overvoltage protection and still not get nuisance operations on normal system transients, the relay must operate very rapidly on extreme overvoltages and relatively slowly on slight overvoltages. Upon completion of the time delay the relay contacts close the trip coil of the generator control relay, thus de-energizing the faulty system."
"IN ANALYZING and synthesizing feedback control systems, the engineer is frequently interested in the numerical value of the parameters associated with the motor-load combination. He probably has manufacturer's data concerning the motor itself, and perhaps similar data are available for many of the load components but, in general, parameter values are not available for the specific motor-load combination and they must be calculated or measured."
"When load is suddenly removed from an a-c generator, the terminal voltage will rise to some maximum value. The magnitude of this overvoltage is a function of several factors such as the amount of load removed, power factor of the load, regulator time delay, exciter response, and the pertinent constants of the a-c generator. This paper presents an analytical study of the influence of these factors on the magnitude of the maximum overvoltage."
"In the design of high-precision resolvers and synchros there are many sources of inaccuracies, such as harmonics generated by winding distributions, slot openings, and mechanical tolerances. This paper develops the equations for output voltage in terms of winding and air-gap factors, gives a method of analysis which is adaptable to digital techniques, and presents a general discussion of the sources of error and a means for minimizing these errors."
"The introduction of the root-locus method in the z-plane simplifies the investigation of sampled-data control systems, by demonstrating the correlation between transient response and the location of the roots. It is shown that by establishing the correlation between frequency locus and the root locus, the correlation between frequency and transient response of sampled-data systems can be demonstrated."
"A RELATIVELY simple test method is demonstrated to obtain the transient reactance and time constant of an a-c synchronous generator by an analysis of an oscillogram of the a-c generator field current. This method is applicable in many aircraft electric system studies, such as voltage-regulating stability and voltage rise on sudden removal of load, where only the a-c generator transient effects need to be considered. The influence of the d-c and subtransient armature currents are disregarded because of their comparatively negligible effect on the magnitude of the transient voltage of aircraft generators. Hence, to obtain test values of machine constants for these studies, the more efficient simplified test method may be used."
"THE purpose of this paper is to describe the development of a static aircraft voltage regulator for constant- and variable-speed a-c generators. This type of regulator is one which utilizes components which are static in nature as a means of control. The development was started in an effort to develop a new and better regulator to meet more rigid specification requirements. The regulator that has resulted not only meets these requirements but promises inherent reliability and long life."
"THE purpose of this paper is to detail the power supply requirements for a mass rate fluid flowmeter; to examine various methods of driving the impeller of the flowmeter; and to describe the power supply for the drive method selected with its performance characteristics."
"IN A recent paper a historical study was made of the procedures being used to correlate the thermodynamic and electrical characteristics of blast-cooled generators.1 This paper will discuss the correlation procedures being used at the Naval Research Laboratory (NRL), explain why they were chosen and, where possible, present supporting experimental results."
"A new approach to the problems of brush life and commutation, bearing life and lubrication, and high ambient temperature in aircraft generator design is presented. A test and development program for obtaining adequate data for the design and construction of an oil-cooled machine is outlined. The prototype machine and some construction details are shown."
"THE practice in modern jet aircraft of using axial-flow jet engine compressors has decreased the number of engine pads available for driving accessories. This, coupled with the presence of a high-pressure air supply as a source of power, has brought about the introduction of the air turbine as a prime mover. Since the energy level of the jet engine bleed air is dependent upon the engine setting, which is in turn dependent upon the airplane flight condition, the design of the turbine drive will be dictated by, first, the flight condition which results in a minimum energy supply to the prime mover and, second, the power that must be developed by the prime mover. These factors will influence the performance of the unit at the airplane cruise condition where air consumption is most critical. The first section of this discussion is concerned with the imposed requirements at the design point, and the penalty involved from the standpoint of performance, at the cruise condition. Subsequent sections will deal with the turbine configuration and the turbine control system response rate."
"IN COMMON use today are many 3-phase 4-wire electric systems that operate primarily with single-phase line-to-neutral loads. Quite often on these systems it is found impractical to distribute the single-phase loads so that the power supply operates into a balanced 3-phase system. A-c power systems on present-day aircraft typify this condition."
"A LOAD transfer contactor is employed in an electric circuit as illustrated in Fig. 1. As is evident from the figure, the purpose of the contactor is to connect a bank of loads to one of two possible power sources. While the contactor could be either manually or automatically controlled, only automatically controlled self-contained contactors are considered in this paper. Also, the contactor could be employed in either a single-phase or a 3-phase circuit, but this paper deals only with 3-phase circuits."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the title page of this issue of the periodical."
"IN THE past, various forms of optimum relay servomechanisms have been proposed.1-6 The connotation of the word optimum is given by the definition: The optimum performance of a servo-mechanism will be that behavior in which the system returns to rest with zero or minimum error in the shortest time following a step input.1"
"A method for obtaining reduced speed operation of a-c mine hoists is discussed. Control equipment for providing a very slow stable speed for mine shaft and cable inspection and for cable reeving is described. How frequency responsive relays, energized by a frequency generator coupled to one of the motors, control acceleration, slow speed, and overspeed is explained."
"ANY PERIODIC function can be expressed as a Fourier series, a summation of sinusoidal terms having frequencies which are integral multiples of the fundamental frequency. The most direct method of determining the coefficient of any term consists basically of determining the net area, over one full cycle, of a curve which is the product of the function and a unit sine-wave of the desired frequency. No matter what the appearance of the product curve, the net area will be exactly the same as that which would be produced by the in-phase component of the desired harmonic multiplied by a unit sine wave of the same frequency. The procedure is repeated with a unit cosine wave and the two components combined in quadrature."
"This paper describes two types of zero-velocity-error servomechanisms which exhibit high dynamic accuracy with a minimum bandwidth. The first type is a special integral control system. The second type contains a simple lag circuit in the feedback path. These systems are analyzed and discussed from both theoretical and practical design considerations. A method to aid in the determination of required bandwidth is introduced. A classification of possible zero-velocity-error systems and a method of deriving zero-forced-error systems are also presented."
"An investigation of inert gas-shielded consumable electrode arc behavior and metal transfer characteristics was undertaken on aluminum and steel in flat, vertical, and overhead welding positions with the use of argon, argon + 5-per-cent(%) oxygen, helium and helium + 5% oxygen shielding gases. Arc and metal transfer behavior were observed with high-speed motion pictures with the use of intense supplementary illumination to facilitate photography. Electrical behavior of the arc was examined during production of a considerable number of weld beads by recording oscilloscope traces of arc current or voltage on the high-speed pictures of the arc. Thus, relationships were observed between current transients and arc physical behavior. Arcs shielded with argon or a mixture of argon + 5% oxygen, known commercially as sigma grade argon, were more stable and operated with less spatter than similar arcs in helium or helium + 5% oxygen. Although addition of oxygen to argon was desirable, addition of oxygen to helium shielding gas did not improve arc behavior or metal transfer. Numerous large transients occurred in current and voltage of reverse polarity (RP) arcs in helium and helium + oxygen shielding gas. The transients or disturbances were frequently associated with drop severance from the filler wire and with formation of undesirable spatter. Electrical disturbances were not present in similar arcs in argon or argon + oxygen shielding gases."
"CONSUMABLE steel electrode arcs in argon atmospheres of controlled impurity possess a type of cathode instability which is affected by electrical, chemical, and geometrical parameters. A study of cathode instability and the accompanying fluctuations in arc voltage and current have been made. It is the purpose of this paper to discuss these manifestations as related to the welding of structural carbon steel."
"The paper describes a new system of automatic output regulation for induction heating oscillators. With the use of a power triode as part of the oscillator grid-resistor an oscillator is made to block whenever a negative voltage is applied to the triode grid. This grid voltage is applied for a controlled portion of each half-cycle by means of two small thyratrons whose firing angle is determined by the phase of an error signal. The error signal is derived from a tungsten lamp bridge in which the lamp is heated by part of the high-frequency output of the oscillator. This system enables an existing oscillator to be regulated without alteration of its power supply. An automatic regulator unit using the system is described. It is interchangeable between a number of oscillators of different designs installed in the exhaust section of a tube plant."
"Recent increases in the power and voltage of d-c systems fed by mercury-arc rectifiers on some installations have created a need for a faster and larger capacity cathode circuit breaker (Fig. 1). A new breaker has been developed for this severe service."
"THE over-all efficiency of a mercury-arc rectifier unit is determined by the segregated loss method. The losses in the component parts of the unit  the rectifier transformer, rectifier, and its auxiliaries  are measured separately, and the efficiency is calculated. The methods used for measuring the losses are specified in the American Standards Association (ASA) Standard for Pool Cathode Mercury-Arc Power Converters.1 This method is used for determining the efficiency, instead of measuring the power input and output of the unit, for two reasons: 1. The losses constitute a relatively small percentage of the unit rating (approximately 5 per cent for a d-c output voltage of 600 volts) and can be determined more accurately by individual loss measiuements. 2. To set up a complete rectifier unit in the factory for a full-load test would be costly and is not always pcactical, because of the limitations of available testing facilities."
"Let-go current curves are presented for commercial 60-cycle a-c and for direct current. New data are presented which confirm previously published let-go current curves for direct currents having various amounts of a-c ripple content, together with new data for 60-cycle a-c let-go voltages. The voltage analysis is extended to cover direct current, thus rounding out the subject of let-go hazards. Reasonably safe let-go currents and voltages are computed from tests made on substantial numbers of normal, healthy individuals. It is believed that reasonably safe limits may be based on the predicted response for 99 1/2 per cent of a large group. The probability of receiving dangerous electric shocks must be anticipated, and preventive measures must be considered vital ingredients in the design of machines, in the framing of operating instructions, and in work procedures."
"HIGH-VOLTAGE air-break contactors are frequently used in controllers, both for starting motors and for interrupting short circuits. According to the National Electrical Manufacturers Association (NEMA) standards,1 2,300- to 4,600-volt contactors for this duty may be used in circuit locations where the available symmetrical short-circuit kilovolt-amperes (kva) are as high as 50,000 kva. In this paper new contactors designed for this service are described, and the tests made to prove the interrupting rating are discussed."
"INDUSTRIAL plants are quite understandably governed principally by the problems associated most directly with production. It is important, naturally, to concentrate the talents of plant management on the larger elements in the cost of the finished product because new ideas can be very effective here in creating savings in cost or increasing output. It is therefore not surprising that the cost of electrical service, particularly in respect to investment requirements for the necessary physical plant, is likely to receive less attention. A procedure often adopted in plants where power does not enter heavily into the cost of the finished product is to plan new installations or make changes in production facilities with only incidental regard to the problems of electrical supply and thereby oblige the electrical planning engineer to furnish power to the production equipment as best he can. This does not always lead to an electric system of optimum cost. It may not lead to minimum long-term cost of the total production facility."
"THE steel industry in the United States is a large user of d-c electric power. Since the use of d-c power for rolling mill drives is so widespread, it is natural to consider the application of ignitron rectifier equipment as the power supply for main mill drive service. Until approximately 20 years ago, the motor-generator set was used exclusively to supply the large amounts of d-c power for rolling mill service. Recently, however, ignitron rectifiers have found increasingly frequent use in the making of steel."
"VALVE-CONTROLLED hydraulic servomechanisms are an important class of control systems because of their widespread use in fields requiring high performance and light weight, particularly for military aircraft. Unfortunately, hydraulic servos are not widely understood, as manifested by the scarcity of good technical papers and textbook material on the subject."
"The root-locus method for synthesis of servo systems is modified and extended to cover systems having adjustable time constants. Root-locus and gain-contour methods permit studies of effects upon transient response resulting from variations in gain and variations in time constants to be made independently. The root-contour method facilitates the synthesis of servo systems in which gain is a function of a time constant. Methods for development of gain-contour and root-contour equations for basic servo systems are presented. Feedback charts and illustrative examples are included."
"ANY electric device whose operation produces a very rapid build-up or interruption of electric energy can cause a disturbance that may adversely affect radio reception. The communicator of a d-c machine represents a mechanical means of producing radio-frequency (r-f) power from electrical transients. A fluorescent lamp represents an all-electric voltage breakdown type of transient that produces modulated r-f energy. If no effort is made to confine this energy, near-by radio sets may experience a poor signal-to-noise ratio. This paper primarily discusses the radio influence voltages associated with commercial and domestic fluorescent lighting systems. The principal subjects considered are 1. The mechanism of r-f energy coupling between the lighting system and t h e radio. 2. A test method that makes possible the assignment of an approximate numerical value to the probable radio influence voltage of a fluorescent lighting system. 3. A statistical means of critically evaluating the probable radio influence voltage of a fluorescent lighting system."
"THERE is an ever-present demand for improvements in electric equipment. To improve the equipment, the engineer may try many new ideas. Some of these will yield results while others will be discarded as not being worth while. On equipment such as mercury-arc rectifiers many ideas have been successful and the improvements have been frequent and substantial. Usually, the engineer has so many new ideas to try that he does not take time to re-examine old ideas in the light of recent developments."
"THE application of digital controllers or sampled-data processing units for stabilizing and compensating sampled-data feedback control systems has been a subject of considerable study in recent years.1,2,3 It is now known that this technique is an effective and useful means in the design of sampled-data feedback systems."
"IN any discussion of 400-cycle electric power systems, the question comes to mind of why frequencies should be considered other than the established standard 60-cycle frequency now widely and most commonly used in electric systems ashore and afloat. Since 1932, 60-cycle a-c systems have been used in the majority of the ships' service electrical installations, particularly installations of large capacity. These have operated satisfactorily, and they served well during World War II. However, during and since this period the trend has been to increase the use of electric power, thereby increasing weight and space requirements of equipment out of proportion to the size of the ship, and to require improved performance of the equipment installed. The answer to this question can be summarized by the word progress. The purpose is to obtain better performance of electric equipment, or the same performance with less material, weight, and space. To achieve these goals, consideration must be given to the basic factors which influence electric equipment designs, one of which is frequency. Just as in other engineering fields where progress is being made by going to higher temperatures, pressures, and speeds, the use of higher frequencies opens up new avenues for electrical design improvements."
"THE universal acceptance of the sealed ignitron for industrial power rectifiers up to 1,000 kw at 600 volts has raised the question as to the possibility of larger sealed ignitrons which would permit higher ratings for rectifier units. After considerable development, the same principles used for sealed ignitrons up to 400 amperes have been extended to larger sealed tubes with ratings up to 1,000 amperes at 250 volts d-c."
"Rules for the transformation of block diagrams representing linear systems are examined to determine their applicability for systems containing nonlinear elements. General proofs and examples are given which show that the original block diagram for any system with one input, one output, and one nonlinear element characterized by y = (x), where x and y are its instantaneous input and output, can always be reduced to four topologically identical and mathematically equivalent block diagrams. In these diagrams, the nonlinear element may appear as either a forward or feedback block with its input and output in either a normal or reversed cause-effect relationship."
"In the last few years, there have been few papers1-9 which discuss methods of analysis and synthesis of sampled-data control systems. In this paper it is shown that the z-transform method is the best as applied to the design of such systems. The z-transform method yields information only on the response of the system at sampling instants. Certain methods have been introduced which modify the z-transform method to obtain information on the system's behavior between sampling instants. All these proposed methods are mainly directed for analysis purposes. However, none is applied for design procedures which can be consolidated with the z-transform method. In this work, the modified1 z-transform method is further extended and applied for synthesis procedures. It is believed that the method chosen is best applicable for the design of sampled-data control systems. Both the frequency-response and the root-locus approach with the use of this modified z-transform method are discussed. Furthermore, the effect of pole and zero location on the transient response of sampled-data systems is investigated, and certain information on the response obtained."
"This report is an extension of the design procedure proposed by Bergen and Ragazzini1 for error-sampled control systems. Restrictions on the specification of the over-all transmission K(z) caused by steady-state error considerations and the inability to cancel poles perfectly and zeros of the plant on or outside the unit circle are discussed. A design procedure which includes these restrictions is presented."
"AN air-cleaning blower has been developed which will economically exclude most of the dirt, rain, or snow from the air used for ventilating traction motors on electric, diesel-electric, and gas-turbine-electric locomotives. An axial flow fan is used. Separation is accomplished by spinning the air stream and depending upon inertia of the foreign particles to cause them to separate from the air. Cleaning efficiencies of over 70 per cent have been realized with the materials encountered in air used for locomotive ventilation. By reducing the major cause of electrical troubles and insulation failures, air cleaning has increased the reliability and cut down the maintenance cost of traction motors on locomotives where it has been used."
"To determine the effect of water vapor on arc characteristics, arcs with direct currents in the range from 20 to 200 amperes were studied at atmospheric pressure in air containing water vapor in controlled quantities. The water vapor content of the air was varied from 0.15 to 100% (per cent) by volume and this range of values constituted conditions from extremely dry air to saturated steam. For arc electrodes, the materials employed were iron, copper, tungsten, and graphite. Data were taken relating the electrical characteristics and stability of the arc to atmospheric water vapor content, arc current, and electrode separation and material. It was found that the presence of water vapor causes an increase in arc voltage compared to the arc voltage for dry air. This increase is much greater for the electrode materials, iron and copper, than for tungsten or graphite. For a 120-ampere arc with iron electrodes at 1-centimeter separation in an atmosphere of 100% water vapor, the magnitude of the arc voltage is approximately 170% greater than for such an arc in air containing 0.15% water vapor by volume. Whereas, under similar conditions except with graphite electrodes, only a 13% voltage increase occurs. These voltage increases appear to occur in both the arc column and the electrode drop regions. From an analysis of the results, it appears that the differences between air and water vapor effects on the arc derive from the predominant roles of the large specific heats of water vapor and hydrogen and of the great energy transferring properties of hydrogen attributable to its relatively small mass."
"THE ELEMENTS of automatic control systems may generally be put into three functional categories: 1. Sensing or input elements, which convert external events into useful control signals. 2. Computing elements, which determine the mode of operation of the controlled system on the basis of input information. 3. Machine actuating elements, which convert the electric signals received from the computing elements into actual physical operations. Control systems can be further classified into two general types, analogue and switching. In analogue systems, input signals and output quantities are continuously variable. In switching systems, information is represented by discrete states of electrical or mechanical quantities. Most switching control systems employ a binary representation, in which only two signal levels are distinguished; this permits the use of components which have only two stable states. Relay control systems are the most common binary switching control systems now in use, and information is represented by the two distinct states of the relay contacts. The purpose of this paper is to describe new nonmechanical magnetic elements for use in binary switching control systems."
"SHORT circuits or grounds in aircraft electric power systems or in other parts of the electric system cause unbalanced voltages. These voltages may be detected by several means. One method indicated by a study of symmetrical components is the negative-sequence voltage.1 It can be shown that line-to-line and line-to-ground fault detection can be provided by sensing the negative-sequence voltage."
"THE parallel operation, as in today's aircraft, of electric a-c generators supplying a common bus requires that the total system load be divided equally among the paralleled generators. Real load and RL (reactive load) division are regulated through the speed and voltage regulator respectively. This paper concerns RL division only and the co-ordination of a high-phase voltage-sensing regulator with the RL sharing circuit and over-voltage and undervoltage protection."
"THE OUTPUT frequency of an alternator is proportional to the rotating speed of the field flux of the alternator. Variations in this field flux speed can be caused by torsional flexing of the alternator shaft and by instability in the speed of the prime mover."
"The purpose of equipment dielectric test is to detect insulation faults, not to stress solid insulation. An investigation of air-gap breakdown through holes in aircraft insulation materials simulating faults in aircraft equipment demonstrated the following: 1. the 500-volt high-potential tests will not detect common faults in aircraft insulation; 2. the common concern over insulation damage from repeated high-potential tests is not justified; 3. dielectric breakdown through small diameter faults in insulation is more likely to produce immediate failure than similar discharges over surface paths. A single circuit interruption transient discharging through a 0.003-inch-diameter hole may completely fault the insulation, while a discharge of similar energy across surface gaps may require hundreds of repetitions before failure; and 4. when small-hole discharges through insulation occur between copper and iron, insulation may fail immediately even with supposedly tracking resistant materials such as mica. Insulation puncturing and tracking circuit interruption high-voltage transients reaching values of several thousand volts are discussed. The value of these transients is shown to be substantially the same for 28-volt systems as for higher voltage systems and the critical circuit factors determining the value of these transients are analyzed."
"Details axe given of the work accomplished at the Naval Air Development Center (NADEVCEN) to develop an adequate definition of voltage modulation in aircraft constant-frequency electric systems. Instrumentation was developed for the laboratory phase of the investigation. From the laboratory data and other commercial correlating data, a new and more complete definition of voltage modulation was developed. This definition is also recommended for integration into other military specifications involving aircraft a-c electric generating and regulating equipment."
"DESPITE the present high state of perfection of both synchros and potentiometers, the aircraft industry is already designing devices the accuracy of which is better than that of the available means for transmitting output data to the point of use. The stable platform attitude reference and certain automatic astronomical instruments are examples of equipment presenting these new demands."
"The performance reliability of a missile electric system may be defined in terms of steady-state values of voltage and frequency applied to the system equipment. This viewpoint stresses the auxiliary function of furnishing electric power as contrasted to the prime functions of electronic equipment such as signal amplification or control response. Other failure-producing parameters such as operational environments, aging, and production differences must be recognized by the definition. Hypothetically at least, these parameters may be classified as secondary factors, thus bringing attention to focus on problems most acute in early design stages. Performance reliability of load equipment is evaluated at the so-called blackbox level. In this process, the prime electric source is connected to the input; performance is measured at the output. The test results from varying input conditions furnish information to describe the input-output relationships. In the discussion, variations on electric input conditions are confined to voltage but may be extended to frequency as well by an identical procedure. From these results, statistical calculations derive values of probable performance for equipments. A similar process gives probable performance of generators or other sources, the output in this case being electric voltage. These tests replace conventional circuit analysis and testing, and account for performance dispersion that cannot be predicted with accuracy in equipment of great complexity. Hence, approximations of performance expected from subsequent production-line equipment may be obtained on breadboard equipment that cannot be submitted to environmental testing. To carry out the method thoroughly requires a single prototype model for each of the equipments that make up the entire system, or at least those that are considered most critical. Such tests do not consider explicitly the individual component parts which make up the equipment package. They are designed to permit determination of performance reliability of over-all complex systems with the least amount of system or equipment breakdown. Finally, under assumptions of statistical independence, equipment reliabilities are serially multiplied to determine over-all system reliability."
"AIRCRAFT ground power equipment serves two primary requirements. It makes possible the starting of the airplane's engines, and it provides electric power to the airplane's utilization equipment, thus conserving the plane's own electric system for use during actual flight only. This paper is concerned with the electric equipment used in engine generator sets which provide the source of aircraft ground power."
"The theory of describing function method used in analyzing and synthesizing nonlinear control systems has been supported so far largely by practical systems simulated in analogue computers. This paper presents a practical contactor servo system which is designed on the basis of this theory. The experimental result checks with theoretical prediction within engineering accuracy. The practical validity of this theory is thus further verified."
"The frequency response of a mechanical system which is subjected to torque limitation and which, by the addition of nonlinear error processing, is designed to have an optimum response to step-function inputs, is evaluated qualitatively. This analysis is carried out to determine the effect on the frequency response of the error-processing element and, moreover, to determine whether this system has advantages in addition to optimum transient response. The closed-loop response of this system to a sinusoidal excitation signal is evaluated from a graphical representation of the open-loop frequency response. The latter takes into consideration the harmonics in the control signal. This closed-loop response is compared with that of the equivalent system subjected only to torque limitation. Both velocity feedback and derivative of error stabilization are considered. The mechanical system is simulated on an analogue computer and experimental verification of the analysis is obtained. Finally, the approximate frequency response of the optimum system is evaluated by neglecting the harmonics in the control signal. This approximate response is compared with that evaluated previously, and this comparison shows that the neglect of these harmonics is justifiable."
"The different behaviors of a second-order feedback control system of autonomous type (i.e., with no external drive), with backlash or with hysteresis in the feedback link of the loop, are investigated. Approximate expressions for the stability limits and for the amplitude and frequency of the oscillations are derived."
"A first study is presented of the effect of backlash and coulomb friction upon the stability of an automatic feedback control system. The system consists of a mechanical linkage in which the load member is subjected to a restraining force. Describing functions that represent the load response for finite values of inertia, backlash, and coulomb friction between the load and an external surface are derived analytically. An example illustrates the conditions under which nonlinearities cause sustained oscillations in a given system, and how the Nyquist criterion can be used to obtain frequency and amplitude of the oscillations."
"A LARGE single-phase load drawn from a limited-capacity 3-phase system will unbalance the 3-phase system. If analyzed by symmetrical components in the 3-phase system, equal and opposite positive- and negative-sequence currents are realized. This unbalance leads to excessive heating in the stator of the alternator, thus substantially reducing its over-all capacity. If uncorrected, the unbalance may also cause local hot spots in ordinary induction motors."
"ALTHOUGH feedback control design is generally performed in terms of frequency response, dynamic behavior is best expressed in terms of transient response. Consequently it is very desirable to be able to relate transient and frequency response in a simple manner. This paper presents, as a means for doing this, a reliable approximation procedure, which enables one to relate by inspection the characteristics of the frequency response to the corresponding characteristics of the transient responses."
"IN THE ANALYSIS of a-c servo systems for stability and performance, attention is centered upon the carrier envelope, i.e., the signal proper. Extension of the convenient transfer function description used in direct-signal (low-pass) servo systems thus requires that the dynamic behavior of each element in the a-c system be described in terms of its effect on the carrier envelope by envelope transfer functions which are functions of signal frequency. In general, three types of elements are encountered in a-c servo systems: type-1 elements in which both input and output are modulated carriers; type-2 elements which have inputs at signal frequencies and outputs which are modulated carriers, and are called modulators and type-3 elements which accept modulated carriers as inputs, produce outputs at signal frequencies, and are called demodulators. Both type-2 and type-3 elements readily lend themselves to simple envelope transfer function description if their dynamic behavior occurs on the signal side. Type-1 elements, however, have known transfer functions in terms of actual frequency, rather than signal frequency, and the envelope or signal transfer function must be derived."
"THE GROWING complexity of aircraft a-c power systems has required more and more detailed analysis of the system performance under abnormal conditions, such as asymmetrical loading or asymmetrical faults. These calculations are used to predict the proper setting of the different protection functions and to assure proper co-ordination of primary and secondary protection in the distribution network. Another factor is concerned with the reduction of positive sequence voltage is applied to polyphase a-c motors. These motors are being applied in aircraft in increasing numbers."
"This paper introduces a method for the synthesis of nonlinear servomechanisms the behavior of which, when stimulated by step inputs of position, approaches as closely as desired the behavior of optimum contactor servomechanisms of the same order. The synthesis procedure begins with the selection of a phase trajectory in a phase space, the co-ordinates of which are system error and derivatives of system error. Theorems are proposed which place sufficient conditions on the given phase trajectory so that the synthesis procedure will yield a nonlinear differential equation of the desired type. The synthesis process is carried out in detail for nonlinear systems of order two, three, and four, and the results are verified by an analogue-computer study. The general conclusions are: 1. A synthesis procedure can be evolved which begins with a phase trajectory and terminates with a nonlinear differential equation describing the behavior of a stable, physically realizable, nonlinear servomechanism; 2. the synthesized nonlinear differential equation is closely related to the linear differential equation of the same order and has coefficients expressed in terms of design-specified quantities; 3. the synthesized nonlinear system's response is superior to the equivalent linear system's response; and 4. time solutions of the nonlinear differential equations can be obtained in a number of important cases."
"THE DESIGNER of controllers and control equipments has three major design objectives. In satisfying these objectives, he discharges his obligations to various sectors of his professional responsibility. These objectives are 1. To design for quality of performance. This objective satisfies the obligation to the customer who expects to receive fair value for the price he pays. 2. To design for economy of manufacture. This objective satisfies the obligation to the manufacturer who must sell at a profit to stay in business. 3. To design for safe operation. This objective satisfies the obligation to the pubhc since it safeguards operators, as well as the owner and the neighbors of the plant, against lethal accidents and fire hazards."
"THE ELECTRIC system for supplying power to a nuclear reactor and its auxiliary equipment in most respects is very similar to that found in the average industrial plant. The main factor that affects the design of such a system is the high degree of reliability necessary to assure reactor safety during all phases of operation, including shut-down periods. The system presented here was recently constructed at the Atomic Energy Commission's Hanford Works and describes one of two identical plants constructed at the site. The General Electric Company is the prime contractor responsible for the engineering and operation of all production facilities at Hanford. C. T. Main, Inc., Boston, Mass., served as engineering contractor on the water plant and its electric system."
"A network for improving the transient response of a-c or d-c servomechanisms is described. Variations of the carrier frequency in a-c systems have no effect on the operation, and the magnitude of the step function input may be varied over wide limits without need for adjustment to obtain optimum response. The components used are reliable, few in number, and readily obtainable."
"AN EXPERIMENTAL method of achieving appropriate first switching points for certain nonlinear single-loop servomechanisms is described. The servomechanism is assumed to be a positioning device. For control intelligence, nonlinear corrective functions of output velocity, static error, or error velocity are assumed continuously available. Since the method is experimental, either the actual device or a reasonably accurate analogue model can be used, and thus is not subjected to the same limitations as those imposed by simplified mathematical models. Here the basic device may be of high order and include many unintentional nonlinearities. One principal limitation accepted by the method is that the system input can be described by a limited Taylor series; i.e., at time t = 0, the quiescent system is confronted with an input consisting of an arbitrary position step plus an arbitrary velocity step, or ramp, plus an arbitrary acceleration step, etc. Switching points subsequent to the first are assumed to be compacted into the terminal region of the response, either to be absorbed by allowing the terminal region to be unsaturated, and perhaps linear, or to be determined by other methods. This assumption might be interpreted in practice as the requirement that the system components such as amplifiers, actuators, and sensing elements be in themselves relatively well damped. A highly underdamped element that tends to wiggle or ring during the positioning operation might well require a more elaborate experimental treatment."
"DURING the last few years, the field of applied statistics has experienced a tremendous growth. This is evidenced by the increasing acceptance of the statistician as a vital member of the research and engineering team. The advent of the computing machine is not the least of the factors which has contributed to this growth. Not too long ago, complex statistical problems in multivariate analysis or analysis of variance were beyond the realm of possibility because of the months and years necessary to obtain solutions by conventional hand computation methods. Now, with the existence of computing machines of increased sizes, speeds, and capacities, more of these problems can be solved and are being solved on a routine basis."
"AN ANALYSIS of the process of magnetic recording of digital data is presented from which qualitative design concepts are developed and their usefulness demonstrated, both in the evaluation of magnetic head structures and in their design for high-density storage."
"FROM THE standpoint of design objectives, features, and operating characteristics, the Bell Telephone System's new wire spring relay for telephone switching systems has been described in a previous paper.1"
"DURING the past few years, the accuracy of linear analogue-computing components has been improved to the extent that the present limitation on solution accuracy in analogue computation and simulation is caused almost entirely by the errors in nonlinear equipment. One nonlinear device which has found extensive use is the diode-type generator for arbitrary functions. In general, this device approximates a given function by means of short linear segments, which are located in the function plane as closely as possible to the desired function to obtain a minimum error of approximation. This technique is known as linear approximation."
"Intercity transmission of television programs and telephone conversations is now provided via a network of TD-2 microwave radio relay equipment operating on a transcontinental basis. Whenever service interruption threatens because of equipment troubles or atmospheric disturbances in the transmission path, a switching system automatically and quickly substitutes a stand-by wide-band microwave radio channel for the defective channel. The circuits and operation of this switching equipment are described."
"A VARIETY of electric devices have come into use in industry which impose rapid and frequent changes of load. This may cause sudden changes in voltage at frequent intervals, a condition which is known as voltage flicker. It is the concern of the electrical utility to detect such flicker to keep it below the level at which objectionable lamp flicker results."
"THE southwest coast line of Oregon is rugged, primitive, and beautiful. From Gold Beach, near the Oregon-California border, the towns of Port Orford, Bandon, Coos Bay, Reedsport, and Mapleton lie on the sea at the foot of the coast range in a northward sweep of 144 miles."
"MICROWAVE is considered very carefully before it finds itself in the toll plant of a telephone company. To an even greater extent than other communication services, telephone companies require microwave to be capable of the utmost in performance and reliability, and yet be economical. In fulfilling these obviously contradictory requirements, microwave must meet the unusual and exacting specifications of the telephone plant and, often at the same time, compete with the cost of time-honored open-wire and cable facilities."
"THE Rural Electrification Administration (REA) under an Act of Congress of October 1949, has the responsibility for making long-term loans for the construction of telephone systems in predominantly rural areas. Security for loans of this type is represented primarily by the ability of the system to provide good service at reasonable rates over the loan period. To insure that the systems for which loans are made represent adequate loan security, it is necessary to establish standards for the design and construction of such systems. It is the purpose of this paper to discuss some traffic engineering standards used by the more than 50 consulting engineering firms who design the systems."
"Dynamax, a new high-permeability magnetic material containing approximately 65 per cent (%) nickel, 2% molybdenum, and 33% iron, has been developed in the form of thin tape for toroidal cores. It has dynamic characteristics which are superior to those of any rectangular hysteresis loop materials commercially available today. The most promising potential applications are in high-performance magnetic amplifiers and possibly in special transformers. In addition, its d-c magnetization characteristics are comparable to those of Supermalloy except that the Dynamax has a rectangular hysteresis loop and higher remanance. Dynamax has d-c properties which are superior to Deltamax except for lower saturation."
"The impedances of nonuniform or tapered lines are computed directly by solving a first-order nonlinear differential equation of the Riccati type. Special cases which include the uniform line, the exponential line, the Bessel line, and the Heaviside-Bessel line are discussed. A general reversion method for solving the nonlinear differential equation for the line impedance is discussed."
"IN MANY magnetic-amplifier applications, the transient response of the magnetic amplifier is of considerable importance. This is especially true if the magnetic amplifier is to function as an element of a feedback control system. The object of the work described in this paper was to determine experimentally the dynamic performance of a 3-phase bridge magnetic-amplifier circuit."
"THE RAPID rise in the last two decades of the magnetic amplifier art and the expansion of the fields of usefulness of high-quality magnetic components have gone hand in hand with the development of alloys and of processing techniques which lead to materials displaying highly rectangular, and at the same time extremely narrow, hysteresis loops."
"To provide a convenient means for solving complex and nonlinear ordinary differential equations, a system has been devised which causes a 704 EDPM to behave like an analogue differential analyzer. Use of this system involves the interconnection of appropriate subroutines in a manner analogous to the interconnection of operational amplifiers in an analogue machine. The subroutines are designed so that the user may compile the required connections automatically, without much knowledge of digital computer coding. Solving differential equations by this method takes no more setup time than that required by analogue machines and in many cases may be a good deal faster. Integration is done by using Milne's formulas. The system automatically adjusts the integration interval to take advantage of portions of the solution which can be computed with large intervals at no sacrifice of accuracy. Nonlinear functions may be expressed by a table of values in storage."
"REDUCTION of power transformer insulation by the recently recommended two full basic insulation levels1 has placed renewed emphasis on oil quality. The design of corona-free transformers has eliminated the use of sharpedged electrodes in highly stressed locations, favoring the more uniform dielectric field conditions. Because contamination in these uniform fields has a much greater influence on dielectric strength that in nonuniform fields, the question of oil quality is of further importance."
"THE MECHANICAL translation of language by digital data-processing equipment was first suggested in private correspondence between A. D. Booth and W. Weaver in 1946.1 Since that time, others have been attracted to the field of mechanical translation and their work has resulted in the publication of a magazine, a book, and numerous papers.2,3,4"
"A series of circuits are presented which use a magnetic amplifier to control the average output power of switching transistors by pulse-width modulation. Thus the advantages of switched-transistor operation are incorporated in a linear amplifier. The magnetic elements serve both as a pulse-width modulator and as a high-gain preamplifier, thereby producing an amplifier with high-gain as well as high-output power. Design considerations, performance data, and potential applications of the circuitry are discussed."
"This paper describes the properties of the d-c premagnetized static-frequency tripler or triductor. It is shown that the triductor has many superior properties as compared with the static frequency tripler of conventional type. The automatic or manual control of the saturation of the individual iron cores by superimposed d-c magnetization makes a number of applications practical. Of particular interest are the uses of the triductor as a static frequency transformer with regulated output voltage and its application as a highly voltage-sensitive amplifier."
"The design of switching circuits for industrial control has been developed chiefly in terms of relays. Magnetic logic circuits, which are switching elements based on the single-core magnetic amplifier, have properties different from relays and therefore require somewhat different design methods. One possible form of switching algebra for magnetic logic circuits is suggested and simple examples of its use are given. The steps in designing a complete system are discussed. The advantages of performing the important step of design verification on a simulator are pointed out."
"MODERN business operations have developed a requirement for rapid and accurate communications involving the exchange of engineering, scientific, statistical, and accounting data. The terminal points may be in the same building or separated by hundreds of miles. The Armed Forces have the same requirements but the distances may be greater, and radio transmission must be used where wire facilities are not available."
"The jitter in multiplier phototube synchronization systems is analyzed. The effect of bandwidth, phototube, and optical parameters on jitter is determined, and optimum operating parameters are derived. In the Appendix the intensity range of superiority of the multiplier phototubes over simple vacuum phototubes is determined."
"THE THIN-wire loop is one of the first antennas to receive theoretical consideration, having been discussed by Pocklington1 in 1897. Pocklington treated a closed loop excited by a plane wave; he obtained an exact solution for the current on the loop in the form of a Fourier series. More recently, Halln2 considered a driven loop and obtained a solution, again in the form of a Fourier series, for the current and the impedance. However, Halln pointed out that the coefficients of this series contained a singularity which made the series only quasiconvergent and hence useful only for loops small in comparison to a wave length. Moreover, the individual terms were complicated and their evaluation and a summation involved a somewhat difficult numerical task."
"IN THE self-saturating type of magnetic amplifier it is desirable to bias the saturable reactor to a particular point on its hysteresis loop. Higher gain and better linearity of the transfer function can be achieved in this manner. Shunt paths around the diodes of the magnetic amplifier afford a convenient means of biasing the saturable reactors."
"THE OBJECT of the tests was to gather information regarding the characteristics of the insulation of a large generator winding. The tests also provided an opportunity to evaluate new test equipment and test methods. In particular, it was desired to evalute certain factors which may influence the results of various dielectric tests."
"A NEW line of direct-acting recording instruments has been developed to meet the increasing demand for a compact design featuring ease of maintenance, improved operating reliability and conservation of panel space."
"THE intent of this paper is to disclose as briefly as possible some new ways of interconnecting magnetic amplifier flip-flops in the hope that these can be adapted for useful purposes. These circuit arrangements may be considered as analogues of manually or mechanically actuated contact-making devices. The basic switch function is an operation in one sense for on and an action in the opposite sense for off as in the common toggle switch. Another familiar type of switch, not quite so frequently encountered, is called the canopy or chain-pull. When this is operated successively, in one sense only, it gives alternately on and off action. Relays that do this are well known and are sometimes called impulse relays. When relays of this type are repeatedly energized, they will alternately open and close their contacts. Devices capable of this kind of response form the basis of binary systems applicable in the digital computer field."
"The usefulness of the equivalent circuits of linear amplifiers for the circuit designer may be enhanced if the reciprocal forward- and reverse-equivalent circuits are derived. Applications to the grounded cathode vacuum-tube amplifier and to the grounded emitter transistor amplifier are shown."
"THE International Business Machine (IBM) electronic data-processing machine type 702 consists of a stored-program arithmetic and logical unit and an array of high-speed input and output devices. The system is intended primarily for the automatic processing of business records, and its design is therefore quite different from that of computers for scientific or engineering problems. Some of the more important features are: 1. Electrostatic memory capacity of 10,000 alphabetic or numeric characters. 2. Variable word and record (or input-output message) length. 3. A wide range of input and output devices, including magnetic tapes, punched cards, keyboard, typewriter, high-speed printer, and auxiliary storage in the form of magnetic drums, which are treated logically as an input-output medium; see Fig. 1. 4. A choice of interconnection of machine units as indicated in Fig. 2."
"THE development of closed-circuit television (TV) has been marked by many fascinating applications but, until recently, economic factors ruled out its mass usage in many fields. In industry, education, business, and the military, television has been a fascinating medium to explore, test, and evaluate, but only infrequently could its proponents justify its introduction on a permanent large-scale basis. Recently, however, advances in two fields have made this possible."
"IT HAS long been recognized that careful attention must be given to the amplitude response of all types of communication systems throughout the useful frequency range. Other effects arising from system phase characteristics became evident as circuit lengths increased. These effects, resulting from phase distortion, persisted even after perfect correction had been made for amplitude distortion. In telephony for relatively short distances, phase distortion was usually of small importance. However, with the increased length of circuits phase distortion over the essential range of frequencies was found to play an important role. In landline code telegraphy, d-c or carrier, the effects of phase response are negligible compared with amplitude response. In any event, the processes of signal regeneration, sampling, or pickup, and code translation provide a margin within which distortion effects are absent and a perfect printed reproduction of the telegraph message is obtained."
"A brief review of the usual causes of insulation deterioration is given. The effect of radiation on these processes is discussed. It is observed that additional factors are present when an insulation is in a radiation field which change both the quality and nature of the insulation."
"The kinds and magnitudes of radiations present in the various locations near nuclear reactors are discussed as well as the mechanisms of interaction of radiation with matter, namely, group fragmentation, molecular scission, and polymerization. Techniques and locations for obtaining high dose rates are presented. Results of 60-cycle short-time voltage breakdown tests on polyethylene, cellulose acetate, and polyvinyl chloride films along with Formex*-varnished wire are given as a function of integrated dose up to 108 roentgens. Extensive electrical tests on a mica-glass-silicone-resin insulation simulating that used in the electromagnetic pump for the submarine intermediate reactor are described. Measurements of mechanical property changes of irradiated resins by means of a newly developed penetrometer are presented."
"THE purpose of this paper is to derive the general theoretical requirements which must be met by linear networks which are to perform specified operations on amplitude modulated signals. In particular, an exact correspondence will be established between a realizable transfer function A (s) which performs a given operation on any modulating function fm(t) and the network which performs an identical operation on the envelope of the modulated function fm(t) sin 0 t where 0/2  is the carrier frequency."
"A PRINCIPAL application of magnetic polar relays is to circuits where high operating speeds are required. One common approach for obtaining highspeed, bounce-free operation of relay contacts has utilized reduction of the armature size and mass. Disadvantages in reducing armature size are the resulting reduction of relay contact forces and the need for smaller mechanical tolerances."
"IN X-RAY diffraction, the data are obtained by measuring the intensities diffracted at any given angle by a sample. In Fig. 1 is shown a typical experimental arrangement in which the beam from the X-ray tube target is diffracted at an angle 2 from its original direction into the measuring device. This device can be moved from 0 to 165 degrees 2 by a suitable mechanism as shown in Fig. 2, illustrating a present-day diffraction unit. Then, if the intensity is plotted on a chart as a function of the angle 2, a typical diffraction pattern is obtained as shown in Fig. 3. The information directly obtained from this chart concerns the spacing of the atomic planes within the tiny individual crystals present in the sample and the relative (uncorrected) intensities of diffraction associated with those planes. These spacings and intensities can be interpreted to give detailed information about the crystalline characteristics of the sample."
"THIS paper presents a description of a radio system now operating between Seattle, Wash., and Victoria, British Columbia. The radio system employs the Lenkurt 72A equipment, the predecessor of the Lenkurt 72B radio described in an unpublished paper by Harp and Kebby of the Lenkurt Company. This application of 72A radio makes use of 33C Lenkurt carrier with a capacity of 24 channels in comparison to the Lenkurt-45-class carrier used with the 72B radio and having a capacity of 72 channels. The base band of the 72A is 160 kc as contrasted to the '300-kc base band of the 72B."
"IN AN age where electronic devices are increasing in quantity and complexity, the electromechanical relay still plays an important part in various switching operations. Commercially available relays were formerly used in accounting machines but, with steady increases in machine speed and capacity, it became necessary to design an improved relay. The development of a wire contact relay for business machines applications is discussed herein."
"IN THE past, interference measurements have usually been made in the screen room as they would be made in free space, i.e., both the operator and all the measuring equipment were placed inside the room with the radiating equipment. Under these conditions the resulting measurements had to be empirically correlated with free-space measurements. Furthermore, because of the presence of the operator and measuring equipment in the room, the results obtained were often difficult to reproduce. It was thus apparent that a more reliable method of making screen room measurements was desirable. Work to this end was initiated by the Coles Signal Laboratory by means of a study contract."
"A nuclear power plant of the pressurized water-moderated and water-cooled type is able to meet the requirements of a central station facility for load changes and for picking up load. It may be used for system load control the same as for conventional plants. The negative temperature coefficient of reactivity characteristic adjusts reactor power level to meet power changes of the steam plant, and provides plant stability. The automatic temperature control system adjusts the control rods to compensate for reactivity changes in the reactor caused by fission products."
"ADEQUATE information concerning the characteristics of available core materials is an essential tool of the transformer engineer. Not only must the information be accurate and complete but it should be presented in a form convenient for use. Present standard methods of presenting such information for use in designing pulse transformers are reviewed herein, and an improved method is proposed; this proposed method can also be employed, with slight modifications, for presenting data to be used in designing broad-band units. The new method is derived from an accurate equivalent circuit representation of a test core and coil, and enables the transformer engineer to predict the response and loss characteristics of a design with much greater accuracy and greater ease than is possible with data as now commonly presented."
"THE roll-welding process has been used for years at the Western Electric Company for fabricating tapes for precious metal contacts. A thin strand of palladium a few thousandths of an inch thick and about 0.010 inch wide is roll-welded to a nickel tape of larger section to facilitate handling of the short lengths required in the contact-welding machines. Many millions of contacts are required in the telephone equipment manufactured each year and many contact welders are used."
"THE oscillator described in this paper was designed to supply the excitation or carrier signal for a second-harmonic type of magnetic modulator. A brief discussion of the modulator will show the necessity for the unusual characteristics of the oscillator; namely, low second-harmonic distortion combined with amplitude and frequency stability."
"COMBINED operation of two carrier systems working at different frequencies and on different types of facilities, through frequency-translating equipment, has been used for some time. Combined operation of K-J systems was introduced in the mid-thirties. This system makes use of the 12-channel twin-cable K carrier operating in the frequency range of 12 to 60 kc, and the 12-channel open-wire J system operating in the frequency range of 36 to 144 kc. More recently, 0-N combined operation over cable and open wire has become available. The 0-N system is a 20-channel single-cable carrier translated into 4-channel open-wire groups in the 0-frequency range. The frequency range of the 20-channel 0-N in the cable portion is 40 to 264 kc. That of the open-wire portion extends up to 156 kc. depending upon the frequencies selected for the open-wire section. The 0 system does not co-ordinate in level and frequency with J."
"By transforming the nonlinear equations of a triode oscillator, with and without an applied signal, to linear ones with periodically varying coefficients, the complete solutions of oscillator equations to the first power of the tube parameters are obtained, the losses being associated with the inductive branch of the oscillatory circuit and the signal applied in the grid circuit. When the circuit losses are relatively low, the resulting harmonics as well as the fundamental amplitude of oscillation are practically the same as when the losses are represented by a constant conductance shunting the oscillatory circuit, but the frequency of oscillation differs by an amount depending on the resistance representing the losses as well as the amplitude of oscillation. The amplitude-phase-frequency relations of the system within and outside the locking range are obtained and the ranges of synchronization determined."
"PUERTO Rico as well as Cuba, Hispaniola, and Jamaica comprise the Greater Antilles or West Indies, Puerto Rico being the most easterly of the group. About 50 to 75 miles farther east of Puerto Rico are the Virgin Islands which are at the end of an extensive chain of islands called the Lesser Antilles. This paper is concerned with Puerto Rico and with Saint Thomas and Saint Croix of the Virgin Islands, which are about 18 degrees north of the equator, 1,000 miles east of Miami, Fla., and 1,600 miles southeast of New York City. The Virgin Islands are closely associated through both travel and trade with Puerto Rico and, consequently, require intercommunication with it and through it to the American mainland. Puerto Rico is a commonwealth which is associated with the United States while Saint Thomas and Saint Croix are territories of the United States."
"THE terms minimum-phase and nonminimum-phase as applied to network functions were probably first introduced and defined by Bode.1 Since their introduction these terms have become almost household words in circuit theory circles. There seems to be unanimity of opinion as to the definitions of minimum and nonminimum-phase networks, but there is less than unanimity in understanding of the properties of these two classes of networks. What is it that is minimum about a minimum-phase network? Is it the algebraic value or the absolute value of the phase angle that is a minimum? Is it the total change in phase angle as frequency varies from zero to infinity that is a minimum? Should the angle considered be angle of lead or angle of lag?"
"WHEN an impulse voltage of sufficient magnitude is applied to underwater electrodes, a gaseous conduction channel forms across the gap. If the rate of current rise is thousands of amperes per microsecond, the growth of the gaseous channel is greatly restrained by the inertia of the water and this results in unusually high gas pressure, current density, and temperature. The rapid vaporization of the water at the channel boundary also contributes to the high gas pressure."
"POLE-mounted a-c-operated carrier repeaters have been available since 1952. These repeaters are for use on 4-channel groups and are of the frequency-frogging type.1 When a 12-channel open-wire carrier system using miniature components for both terminals and repeaters became available, it was felt that it might be practical and economical to adapt the repeater to a pole-mounted installation, operated on a-c, with battery stand-by."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the title page of this issue of the periodical."
"THE D-C analysis and design of nonlinear circuits may be greatly facilitated by graphical means. A graphical approach, if it is simple enough, seems to have the happy faculty of providing understanding of existing circuit operation and hints for better or different designs. This has been amply illustrated recently by the wide use of a negative resistance curve for point contact trigger circuits."
"THERE are numerous articles treating magnetic amplifiers with inductive loads.13 In the majority of these papers the inductive loads are considered without so-called free-wheeling or discharge paths. When single-ended d-c output circuits are considered in the literature, the conditions are first derived for which the circuit will be unstable with no discharge paths;1,3 then discharge paths are added to make the system stable. In the references cited, the discharge rectifiers are considered to have zero forward resistance, thereby achieving complete decoupling of the inductive load from the controlling reactors during the reset period."
"Synopsis. Formulas are given for the minimum and maximum possible voltage standing-wave ratio (VSWR) of an inaccessible load fed by an imperfect transmission line. The formulas involve measurements at the accessible input terminals of the transmission line. Required data are the VSWR existing when the line is terminated by a known, perfectly matched load and the VSWR measured when the line is terminated by the unknown load."
"Receiving and transmitting printing telegraph equipment, whether used in the simplest or the most complex circuit, has generally required some form of auxiliary equipment for switching and remote control. In many cases this auxiliary equipment is complex, costly, and requires as much space and electric power as the controlled equipment. A new concept in printing telegraph switching equipment has been realized in the development of the Teletype model 28 typing unit which may be utilized to perform many electrical and mechanical functions for selective calling, remote control, integrated data processing, and other special functions."
"THIS paper describes a transistor voltage regulator circuit which takes advantage of the high voltage gain and low emitter resistance exhibited by the junction transistor. Emphasis is on a regulator circuit using a single transistor."
"Synoysis: Three multistage transistor servo preamplifiers representing transformer coupling, resistance-capacitance (R/C) coupling, and direct coupling respectively are compared on the basis of design problems and performance. Experimental data referring to temperature stability and voltage response supplement the design and performance calculations for a particular application. Primary advantages and disadvantages of each type are presented, together with a brief discussion of application generalities."
"An evaluation of the actual solutions exhibited by an electronic analogue computer, and thus a measure of its accuracy and stability, requires the analysis of a physical system represented by a linear differential equation system of higher order than that of the mathematical problem being solved. To this situation the powerful and systematic methods of matrix analysis are applied, yielding expressions from which the degree of accuracy which may be attained in computer solutions may be determined and, in particular, evaluating the all-important problems of stability of the electronic networks."
"THE pressure variations generated by the heart beat are perhaps the most rapidly changing pressures normally occurring in the body. In general therefore manometer systems capable of faithful reproduction of the pressure pulses occurring in the cardiovascular system are adequate, at least dynamically, for recording pressures encountered under usual circumstances elsewhere in the body."
"MANY processes and applications in industry require d-c power which has to be obtained from an a-c source. Metallic rectifiers have served well in this field of conversion, and the operating characteristics of magnesium copper sulphide, copper oxide, and selenium are well known. A more recent development is the germanium rectifier, with different characteristics which required that new design techniques be developed. A review of these characteristics in terms of the older metallic rectifiers will be a help in understanding the design and application problems."
"THE development of communication theory has led to the introduction of concepts such as integration, correlation, matched filtering, comb filtering, probability of detection, etc. Much confusion centers about the significance of these concepts because of functional equivalence and because of inadequately defined purposes in using them. Thus, it may be overlooked that integration and correlation are equivalent operations, or that matched filtering and comb filtering are techniques of integration. The purpose in using these concepts can be understood properly only within frameworks of suitable criteria of performance. For example, it is frequently assumed that the end object of a filtering technique is to improve the signal-to-noise ratio. Actually, improvement in signal-to-noise ratio is not an end in itself, but a means to an end. This end is to increase the information rate over a communication channel by reducing the probability of error."
"OVER the past several years the subject of reliability of electronic equipment has received considerable attention. Much has been written on the need for reliable systems, and the mathematical probabilities of component performance have been explored. While there have been demonstrations of achievement, it is felt that additional material of this nature will be of interest. One of the chief factors in establishing a reliable system is to assure compatibility of the operating environment and the capabilities of the active electronic device. This can best be brought about by close cooperation between the equipment and component designers."
"IN FACSIMILE and data transmission systems the signals are largely transient in nature and are usually in the form of a modulated wave for transmission purposes. The modulating signals may be in the form of isolated pulses, periodic waves, or various other wave shapes depending upon the nature of the communication device or system. Modulated pulse envelopes are thus present in the transmission medium in various combinations of amplitude, duration, and relative positions. It is therefore necessary to consider the transient response characteristics of transmission systems and associated networks as well as their steady-state properties."
"ELECTRICAL formulas in textbooks and periodicals are usually expressed in metric units of length (centimeters or meters). In many countries, including the United States, dimensions on shop drawings must be reduced to inches. In the past, the inconvenience and possibility of error in converting from metric to inch units have created at least a minor barrier between electrical theory and practical application. In addition, it has appeared that an engineer starting in industry must familiarize himself with a group of electrical equations which, usually being expressed in inch units of length, differed slightly from those learned in college."
"IN THE course of studies of the electrical precipitation of gas-borne dust, it became necessary to determine the electric-field strength in the negative space-charge region of a corona discharge in room air. However, no satisfactory technique for making such measurements was known to the writer or to the persons whom he consulted, nor did a brief survey of the literature offer anything of use. A number of attempts were made to use static probes of types encountered in electrostatics, but these were uniformly unsuccessful. Hence, it became necessary to develop an instrument based on a new principle. This principle makes use of the laws governing the charge picked up by a particle in a unipolar space-charge field as a function of field strength, current density, and time. Essentially, the quantities measured are the particle charge and the time spent by a particle in the field. By the use of the particle-charging laws, the values of the field strength E and of the current density i may be deduced."
"THE International Business Machines Corporation's card-programmed calculator (CPC) is one of the most extensively used automatic digital computers in the world today and has been discussed in several technical articles.14 Scientific calculations, engineering problems, and accounting procedures have all been applied to the CPC with success. This flexibility may be attributed to the fact that all of the computer elements of the CPC are wired to plugable terminals on removable plugboards as shown in Fig. 1. Thus, by changing wires on the plugboard, the internal design of the CPC may be altered and optimized for a particular application. The purpose of this paper is to present the features of a new CPC plugboard system developed by the Power Transformer Engineering Section of the General Electric Company primarily for engineering design calculations. This system may be used for any calculations where slide-rule accuracy is adequate."
"NETWORK synthesis is the aggregate of concepts and procedures utilized in obtaining an electric network whose performance approximates an arbitrarily prescribed performance. The performance specified may be the desired time response to a given excitation, such as a step or impulse function. More usually, it is the magnitude of the steady-state transfer function over all or part of the frequency axis; or it may be the angle of this function specified over all or part of the frequency axis, or it may be some combination of these over parts of the frequency axis. This paper is concerned only with a magnitude function prescribed over part or all of the frequency axis. The network functions of interest are output over input functions, with any combination of voltage or current as output and input. All of these are functions having similar properties. To include them all in the discussion the transfer function F will be defined as a function specifying the output of a network divided by the input."
"THIS is the story of the conversion from black and white to color television (TV) lighting at Station WBAP-TV in Fort Worth, Tex. Some problems of such a conversion will be unique at each different station. For example: the problems of integrating a new lighting system with the old installation, the type of programming anticipated, the personnel available and, of course, the ever-varying budget. This paper presents the needs of the station and describes how they were met. First, however, the lighting facilities on hand before the addition of color equipment will be outlined."
"FEEDBACK has been applied to amplifiers almost since their inception to alter the gain, bandwidth, impedances, etc. A combination of positive and negative feedbacks, decoupled from each other was applied to a vacuum-tube voltmeter by Gilbert.1 Geyger has reported on2 and patented3 a magnetic circuit similar in operation to the Gilbert circuit which has been designated the self-balancing magnetic amplifier. This amplifier has appeared in many forms. Voltage and current types, both single-ended and push-pull, are possible configurations. These amplifiers have been shown, experimentally, to have large power gains, linear output-input characteristics, and a high speed of response. Scorgie4 in comparing the self-balancing-type magnetic amplifier with the half-wave amplifier of Ramey has analyzed this circuit and reported that the speed of response can be made one half-cycle of the power supply frequency."
"THE solution of the modern complicated electrical engineering problems needs simpler methods than dealing with a large number of equations in a large number of unknowns; simpler experimental solutions are introduced in the form of simple equivalent circuits or a collection of such circuits with variable constants (to represent more than one case) and measuring instruments in a suitably designed machine called analogue computer. Hence the importance of facilitating the solution of nonlinear characteristics of magnetic circuits, neglecting hysteresis, by the steady-state response of linear elements and using the ordinary measuring instruments (ammeter and voltmeter) is clear."
"OPERATIONS research is being applied in science, commerce, and industry. Developed in response to military needs during World War II, it was then known as operations analysis and later as weapons systems evaluation. In its most general aspect operations research is a scientific method of providing executive departments with a quantitative basis for decisions regarding the operations under their control.1 It does this by predicting and comparing the values, effectiveness, and costs of alternative courses of action involving man-machine systems."
"TELETYPEWRITERS which are well known as a means of handling written communications in industrial, government, and police business do not work properly when static is present on the paper. The use of ionizing radiation from radium salt devices to eliminate the effect of static on paper is not new. Such a device is now being used on a nationwide basis by the Bell Telephone Companies during the operation of the page and tape teletypewriters. These teletypewriters may be used in many diverse locations on the customer's premises, thus raising the question as to potential health hazards to the customer's attendants, as well as to the telephone company's maintenance forces."
"A PAPER presented by Sporn and Marquis1 in 1954 outlines quite specifically practically all phases of the economic, engineering, and financing problems in connection with the supply of 1,800,000 kw of power to the Atomic Energy Commission Portsmouth Area. The measurement of the electrical quantities of this load, to satisfy the contractual requirements, created a number of additional problems, not usually encountered in the measurement of power and energy."
"A NEW FIELD of application for magnetic amplifiers is promised by the development of a signal amplitude discriminator. This signal-discriminating amplifier has the unique ability to select the largest of any number of signals and to amplify the selected signal in the normal way. The mechanics of the amplifier are described in this paper and typical measured values are discussed."
"IN the study of a linear lumped system one is confronted with a linear differential equation $a_{0} i + a_1{di \\over dt} + \\cdots a_n {d^{n} i \\over dt^{n}} = b_{0}e + b_1 {de \\over dt} + \\cdots b_{m} {d^{m} e \\over dt^m} \\eqno{\\hbox{(1)}}$ where the applied stimulus and system response are e(t) and i(t), or vice versa, and t is the independent variable."
"Closely regulated supply voltages decrease maintenance, improve reliability, and simplify the design of electron tube and semiconductor circuits. There has existed a need for an alternating-voltage regulator which is effective for simultaneous variations in line voltage, load, and frequency, and which has a degree of reliability beyond that associated with electron-tube regulating circuits. Such a regulator, having a 3-kilovolt-ampere (kva) 115-volt 60-cycle rating is described. A power circuit consisting of a saturable reactor and a buck-boost transformer are controlled in a feedback loop by means of a cascaded 2-stage magnetic amplifier. Reference current is provided by a thermistor network and a silicon-carbide varistor is employed as a current preamplifier. These elements are insensitive to frequency over a 5-per-cent range. The field of application for this type of regulator includes loads within the range of 1 to 20 kva where extremely fast regulation is not essential."
"A multichannel radio system is described which has been developed to meet the specific requirements of toll telephone service for transmitting medium channel loads over medium distances. Problems relating to reliability of service, noise, fading, cross-talk, interconnection and other requirements important to the telephone industry are discussed."
"CYCLIC decimal codes may be used in analogue to digital converters of the reading type. Decimal number output is easily obtained for display to human operators or processing by decimal calculators.1,2,3 Decimal numbers, of course, are more generally used than binary and more frequently in simple computations."
"THE present trend in electrical measurements indicates the need for a test method by which the ratio and phase angle of current transformers can be measured at adiuo frequencies with the same accuracy as they are now measured at power frequencies. The theoretical aspects of several test methods are being investigated at the National Bureau of Standards. It is essential to this study to determine the extent to which the present test equipment,1 comprising 4-terminal impedors and a mutual inductor in a potentiometer network, can be utilized in high-frequency measurements. As part of this program, an a-c Kelvin bridge has been developed for measuring the characteristics of the 4-terminal impedors at audio frequencies. At present the bridge method permits resistance and phase-angle measurements up to 6,000 cycles per second (cps). A substitution technique is employed in which the bridge is balanced first with the unknown and then with a primary standard having a computable skin effect and phase angle. The resistance of the computable standard is previously adjusted and accurately measured in terms of a d-c standard resistor. The range of adjustment for the standard extends from 0.1 to 0.05 ohm. With additional computable standards now under study, and minor modifications of the circuit, measurements can probably be extended to a minimum resistance of 0.001 ohm and a maximum frequency of 104 cps."
"The aim of this paper is to discuss some elementary properties of a type of noise which has been called Gaussian or random. The power spectrum is discussed and its relation to the autocorrelation function is pointed out. Two probability distributions associated with the noise are described."
"AN experimental flat-bed facsimile telegraph transmitter with a number of novel features has been developed at the Water Mill Electronics Laboratory of The Western Union Telegraph Company. In the new machine, the message is placed on the flat bed of the transmitter and scanned by a series of closely spaced transverse lines as the sheet is advanced over the scanning line."
"MOST power transformers of 1,000 kva and larger are built to specification, and the problem of reducing the amount of time required to produce designs for them has been acute for many years. In early 1954, this problem became the focus of attention because of increasingly critical performance requirements which actually lengthened the time required for design while at the same time demands for shorter building cycles were becoming more and more pressing. Furthermore, developments in core steel and insulation increased the need for comprehensive studies of the effects of these improved materials on the economics of transformer design and construction. Such studies can be made on a theoretical basis. They can also be made by changing individual parameters (e.g., cross-sectional area of the core) and calculating the effect of this change on the transformer characteristics. However, neither of these methods is a wholly satisfactory substitute for making a series of designs all of which meet the same requirements, with one exception (e.g., noise level) which is varied over a specified range. Because a given charcteristic may have a greater effect on one rating than on another, the number of designs which must be made necessarily covers a wide range of ratings and is quite large. Not only is such a project expensive, tedious, and time-consuming, but the problem of consistency is acute since no two engineers will use exactly the same margins; in fact, the amount of margin which a single engineer thinks necessary may vary over a period of time."
"A GREAT deal of attention has been given in recent years to the computational aspects of linear programming. The reason for this development lies in the applications of the problem to such fields as operations research, game theory, logistics, military tactics, and others. The object of this paper is to present a method for performing linear programming on an analogue computer containing only standard components. The size of the problem that can be solved is limited by the number of computing amplifiers available and by the number of inputs to each amplifier. The method is unusually flexible because the computer constantly seeks new solutions as the parameters of the problem are varied."
"MAGNETIC fields are used extensively in practice to help control the position or motion of an electric arc. Properly applied, they can be used as an aid to either the stabilization or extinction of an arc. Improperly controlled, they may introduce unwanted instability to an arc."
"Toroidal, laminated cores of several important magnetic materials were tested for the low-field-intensity magnetic properties at compressional stresses ranging from 0 to 500 pounds per square inch (psi). The compressional stress was applied in a direction perpendicular to the plane of the laminations and perpendicular to the direction of the magnetic field, thereby simulating the binding of magnetic laminations in transformers, electric motors, servo components, etc. The materials tested were hydrogen-annealed specimens of 3.5 per cent (%) and 6.4% silicon-iron, 81% and 90% nickel-iron, 4-79 and 5-79 moly-permalloy, and hydrogen- and air-annealed specimens of AEM-4750, 12 Alfenol, and 16 Alfenol."
"SOLUTION of a set of second-order differential equations for computing Hartree-Fock self-consistent field wave functions has been successfully programmed for use on an International Business Machines Corporation (IBM) type 650 magnetic drum digital computer. These equations are nonhomogeneous and have coefficients which are functions of the solution. Thus, the equations must be integrated a sufficient number of times to reach a state of self-consistency. For a particular atomic configuration this may be accomplished in 5 to 8 hours of machine time with the present program. This represents a tremendous saving over hand methods previously used."
"THE behavior of particulate matter in electrostatic fields has been utilized in a number of industries; some are well known and others less known. A comprehensive picture cannot be put into one short paper, but several aspects of electrostatic technology deserve comparison and correlation. Those processes chosen for consideration in this paper are indicated in the headings."
"SQUARE loop magnetic cores used in conjunction with switching transistors can be made to perform a great number of arithmetical operations. Previous papers have shown how these elements can be used to obtain 4-quadrant multiplication1 and division2. This paper presents a basic circuit and shows how this circuitry can be utilized to obtain various sorts of computations. Specifically, experimental data are presented showing results obtained with the use of the circuit to obtain an output voltage proportional to the square root and other fractional powers of an input voltage, the arc sine of an input voltage, the sine of an input voltage and the product of two voltages. These are only a few of the possible outputs which are theoretically attainable."
"This paper presents a method of synthesizing a circuit to obtain a transfer function whose poles lie on the negative real axis and whose zeros lie anywhere in the complex frequency plane including the positive real axis by means of two parallel resistance-capacitance (R-C) ladders and an ideal transformer. The polynomial in the numerator of the given transfer function is first resolved into the difference of two component polynomials whose zeros are all negative real numbers. The method of resolution is based on conditions for collinearity of points that represent nth degree polynomials (with real coefficients) in n-dimensional space. The two component polynomial fractions for the given transfer function are then synthesized into two R-C ladders and the resulting network is the parallel combination of these two ladders through an ideal transformer and terminated by another R-C ladder. The method applies to more generalized cases and usually gives a network that contains less resistive and capacitive elements than any of the other methods available. If the resolution of the numerator polynomial is as a sum of polynomials instead of a difference, more than two components may be required. An expression for the upper bound to the least number of such components is also included in the paper."
"THE ANALYSIS of large electric and fluid networks is of great importance in engineering. Hand computation is generally impractical when the network is large. The network analyzer is currently the only practical means for solving such problems."
"IN THE ordinary use of a galvanometer, its response to a small voltage in a closed circuit is almost always the point of interest; its action can only be completely understood if the galvanometer is considered as a circuit element. The response of a galvanometer in the detector branch of a bridge or potentiometer circuit informs the operator of the direction and magnitude of the adjustment he must make to reduce the unbalance of the network. Reduced to its simplest terms, the galvanometer sees a certain resistance connected across its terminals in which a certain electromotive force (emf), the unbalanced voltage in the network, is present. The galvanometer acts in all respects like an electric motor which stalls after winding a spring (the galvanometer suspension). The useful work is represented by the energy stored in the suspensions of the deflected instrument. It is therefore proper to inquire what use the galvanometer makes of the power available at its terminals,1 and what means can be used to make it utilize this power efficiently in its motor action."
"TWENTY years ago, Kron published the first part of his pioneer work on the application of tensors to the analysis of rotating electric machinery.1 Since that time, many valuable studies26 have been made which firmly establish tensor methods as an extraordinarily powerful method for analyzing the performance of electric machines and other complicated physical networks. With the aid of this tool, the engineer can solve intricate network problems in routine manner, thereby obtaining solutions directly."
"ALTHOUGH carrier has been used successfully to provide trunks in the Bell System for more than 35 years, it has not been economically feasible to apply carrier telephone techniques extensively to the rural telephone plant up to the present time."
"Low first cost and annual charges, good voltage regulation, high reliability, and low maintenance were major objectives guiding the choice of power supply design for the type-P1 (rural) carrier system recently developed by Bell Telephone Laboratories. A study of conventional designs revealed that new techniques would be necessary to realize these objectives. This paper describes how the use of semiconductor devices, the employment of unconventional approaches to power supply packaging, and the development of a new type of lead-acid storage battery influenced design decisions to the end that the major objectives were realized."
"THE broad objectives and application principles for the P1 carrier system opened a new field of use for carrier equipment. However, to exploit this field, several new requirements had to be met. These demanded that the system be of substantially lower cost than any before, that it use only a small fraction of the power, yet maintain the quality associated with a carrier system."
"THE rural service situation is one of the most pressing and difficult problems to solve in the telephone industry. The use of fixed outside plant such as cable, open wire, or B rural wire (6-pair distribution wire or cable) proves expensive in many instances for providing each customer in the rural area with the grade of service he desires when he wants it. This is particularly true for rural areas because of the difficulty of accurately forecasting rural service demands."
"THE EXTENT of use and benefits obtained by the joint use of pole lines to carry power and communications circuits are well known. A number of worthy papers have been presented before the Institute to describe various aspects of joint use and to report on progress in this field."
"THE rapid growth of suburban areas in the vicinity of the larger cities has created many problems for both power and communication companies. A number of power companies have chosen to meet load growth in such areas by increasing their primary distribution voltage. Such increases in voltage have in general been accompanied by substantial increases in substation, feeder, and subtransmission capacity. These changes have in turn introduced problems concerning the maintenance and operation of overhead lines jointly occupied by the power and communication companies."
"WHEN POLES are jointly used by power and communication utilities, or the two types of plant are on separate pole lines but are in situations of close proximity, the possibility of accidental contact between the two types of plant must be recognized. The first line of defense against such occurrences is to minimize the probability of contact by means of adequate construction and clearance standards, as covered by the National Electrical Safety Code in the United States or the Canadian Electrical Code in Canada."
"BY using conventional high-gain or bistate magnetic amplifiers as building blocks, switching networks may be derived which perform many computer or control functions. One such network which has been built and tested is a 4-digit binary-to-decimal translator. This translator was designed to provide a display in decimal numbers of binary-coded information. Basically a switching matrix made up of simple self-saturating magnetic amplifiers, this translator illustrates both the matrix technique and an advantageous application. The translator matrix operation, the specific bistate magnetic amplifier building blocks used, the decimal displays obtained, and their individual and combined characteristics are discussed in this paper."
"Measurement of steady-state characteristics and transient-response time of high-speed magnetic servo amplifiers with 2-phase motor load offers two special problems: 1. The output current of a magnetic amplifier with rectangular-hysteresis-loop core material represents a peculiarly truncated sine wave which consists of a fundamental (60- or 400-cycle) component and an array of harmonics having relatively large tnagnitudes. The 2-phase motor. however, responds only to the fundamental component of this output current multiplied by the sine of the actual. phase angle between it and the substantially sinusoidal line-field current of the motor. Thus, in this case, conventional methods for measuring output-input characteristics by means of a separately excited wattmeter are not always applicable. 2. The transient-response time of modern forms of magnetic amplifiers is in the order of 1 to 4 half-cycles of the power-supply frequency. Therefore, for studying the dynamic properties of such high-speed amplifiers it will be advisable to employ a transient analyzer which produces a synchronous square-wave signal voltage and permits, also with higher power-supply frequencies, direct visual observation of a stationary pattern on a dual-beam oscilloscope. This paper is concerned with the solution of these two problems. At first it describes the basic principle and the advantages of the torque-balance method which permits direct measurement of magnetic-amplifier output in terms of the equivalent sinusoidal output voltage for stalled-motor operating conditions. Then, it illustrates the use of a novel form of square-wave signal-voltage transient analyzer with a magnetic switch which consists essentially of a special saturablereactor circuit producing a synchronous unidirectional current with nearly rectangular waveshape. When applying this analyzer, a dual-beam oscilloscope displays the wave forms of input and output voltages of the magnetic amplifier under test simultaneously on a common time base in such a way that these wave forms are exhibited on a long-persistence screen as a stationary pattern. Thus, it is possible to study the effect of various circuit-parameter changes on actual speed of response and to determine optimum design. Finally, this paper gives results of additional measurements on the circuit under test. Measurement of bandwidth on a 400-cycle position servomechanism illustrate the dynamic performance of the circuit when operated in connection with a phase-sensitive rectifier in a closed-loop servo system. Measurements concerning reduction of asymmetry zero-drift errors make it evident that such errors are reduced to about 1/40 of their original values as a result of the application of a large amount of electric negative feedback resistance-coupled into the controlcircuit loop."
"ABOUT a year ago the Subcommittee on Technical Information of the AIEE Metallic Rectifier Committee undertook a program for the purpose of accumulating information on high-temperature selenium rectifiers. As one part of that program Battelle Memorial Institute acting in behalf of the Metallic Rectifier Committee prepared and sent to selenium rectifier manufacturers a questionnaire on high-temperature selenium rectifiers. The 85-per-cent response to the questionnaire is an indication of the fine co-operation extended by the manufacturers. The information thus obtained was used to assemble a report to the sponsoring committee. That report, supplemented by additional information obtained through personal contacts with a few manufacturers, make up the contents of this paper. To avoid possible disclosure of proprietary information, the discussion will be kept on a general level. It is hoped, however, that a survey of the views, achievements, and direction of a major portion of the industry will be found of some value to both the manufacturer and the consumer."
"AKNOWLEDGE of the total core loss and its components is of vital importance to design engineers who use ferromagnetic materials which are subject to magnetic flux changes in direction or magnitude. Generally this information is obtained from measurements made on strip samples in an Epstein frame, with the use of a wattmeter. In many cases, however, there would be certain advantages, such as increased sensitivity and greater frequency range, in making these loss measurements by a bridge method. For measurements at low inductions and high frequencies the bridge methods have been successfully used for several years.1,2 However, if the induction is increased over 10 to 12 kilogausses in nonoriented silicon steels or 16 to 18 kilogausses in oriented silicon steels, the distortion in the wave form of the exciting current is considerable, and it has been found that the results obtained with the bridge methods hitherto used differ from those obtained with the wattmeter. This difference increases rapidly with increases in induction. The bridge method always indicates larger power losses."
"A novel principle has been discovered which retards or completely eliminates the formation of conducting decomposition products in organic materials exposed to electric discharges. The application of this principle to several organic insulation materials has greatly increased their ability to withstand electric arcing."
"SINCE one of the important features of a transformer is its series or leakage impedance, improvements in the calculation of this quantity are always searched for. In power transformers this impedance is almost all formed by its reactive component so that the accuracy of the impedance calculation hinges on the accuracy of the leakage reactance calculation. Modern methods of calculation using digital computers have been adopted so that very accurate reactance calculations can be made whenever they may be required in the design of a particular transformer. The use of a digital computer makes this calculation quick, easy, and painless, and permits a major improvement in this phase of transformer design."
"IN RECENT years theun derstanding magnetic amplifier circuits has advanced rapidly, and great strides have been made in the art. However, it is recognized that several aspects of magnetic amplifier operation still need clarification. In most instances, the lack of a satisfactory explanation for certain circuit characteristics can be traced to an incomplete understanding of the behavior of the magnetic cores used. Therefore, a definite need exists for a study of the process of flux reversal in these magnetic amplifier components. The grain-oriented 50-per-cent nickel-iron alloys (such as Orthonol) are of particular interest and will be the material considered here. However, most of the results can probably be extended directly to other highly oriented square hysteresis loop materials."
"SINCE the introduction of symbolic methods1,2 into the field of digital control, much has been written on the application of Boolean algebra to the analysis and synthesis of 2-terminal electromagnetic (relay and magnetic core) and electronic switching networks. In general, a switching network involves not only the network configuration and the switching elements but also the states of transmission through the network. A survey of the literature will show however, that it is generally (tacitly) assumed that the states of transmission through a switching network are limited to two values. For relays the two states are usually the establishment and the opening of a d-c path through the network; for electronic gate circuits these two states are usually the presence and absence of a pulse. An essentially similar situation prevails on the states of the switching elements in a network. For relays, a relay contact is either open or closed; for electronic gates, an input or output lead either carries a pulse or does not carry one."
"DIELECTRIC amplifiers are circuits which utilize the nonlinear characteristics of capacitors made with so-called ferroelectric materials as dielectrics. To predict the performance of a dielectric amplifier, the behavior of the nonlinear capacitor must be determined and some means of representing it analytically must be devised. The purpose of this paper is to investigate the behavior of a commonly used nonlinear capacitor under conditions encountered in dielectric amplifier circuits, to provide a basis for an analytical representation."
"TO STUDY power transistor switching circuits, it is necessary to measure relevant d-c transistor parameters as functions of current and temperature. Based on the measured results, design methods can be developed for high-power bistable switching circuits which have good trigger sensitivity and d-c stability over wide temperature ranges."
"An exact analysis is given for a reactor having an idealized magnetization characteristic consisting of two linear regions of zero inductance, interrupted by a linear region of infinite inductance, when connected in series with a load comprising of capacitance and resistance under the action of a sinusoidal applied voltage. The recent developments in core materials have introduced magnetic materials such as Deltamax* and Orthonol which have magnetization characteristic, at high values of saturation, approximating the ideal case. Thus the results obtained on the basis of an idealized analysis show good correlation with practical results obtained by experimenting on Deltamax cores. The circuit analyzed is the simplest circuit exhibiting an unstable and multivalued behavior attributed by several authors to a nonlinear resonance, sometimes referred to as ferro-resonance phenomenon. Since the ideal magnetization characteristic assumed, consisting of regions of zero and infinite inductance, could not resonate with the finite load capacitance, the behavior of the circuit is explained by a different approach."
"The need for knowing the low-impedance operating characteristics of a toroidal core or cores to be used in a magnetic amplifier operating under low-impedance control conditions is shown in this paper. A method is then presented for determining these low-impedance characteristics without first winding turns on the core. This method is presented for the edification of persons who are working on the development of new core-testing techniques."
"AMONG independent telephone companies, Bell System operating companies, and railroad communications systems, carrier is used to exploit fully the vast mileage of open-wire telephone plant. Consistent with circuit needs, wire lines were first used to transmit voice-frequency circuits and, later, with added transpositions, to transmit carrier circuits employing frequencies to about 35 kc. Even now, after more than 30 years of such growth, however, the great majority of open-wire message traffic for short- and medium-haul distances is transmitted at carrier frequencies below 35 kc. The number of circuit miles in these carrier frequencies is now in the millions. Continued major growth is expected in open-wire plant, not by adding more wire lines but by moving to higher frequencies."
"A field effect transistor1 is a unipolar device, distinguishable from a junction transistor in the following two ways: 1. the current flow is carried predominantly by one type of carrier alone; and 2. the electric field intensity is relatively high, thus the current flow is caused by field drift instead of by diffusion. Fig. 1(A) shows the construction of a field effect transistor. It consists of a piece of n-type germanium or silicon slab with a p-type junction formed around the center of the slab. Two ohmic contacts are placed in the vicinity of the junction. Three electrodes are connected to the transistor. The electrode connected to the junction is called the gate. The electrodes connected to the ohmic contacts are called the source and the drain. Five papers have already appeared on the field-effect transistors15 in which the design theory, their experimental verification, the d-c equivalent circuit, and the estimate of the maximum cutoff frequency were presented. This paper describes an a-c equivalent circuit of the field effect transistor; the measured parameters of a type of germanium field effect transistor, and some of its circuit applications, with emphasis on oscillators and switching circuits. Special features of a field effect transistor with cutoff frequency near 5 mc (megacycles) are also presented."
"IN THE fall of 1950, the University of Wisconsin began research in the design and construction of an automatic electronic digital computer to add to its servomechanism, analogue, and digital computer program. The project was undertaken for two reasons: 1. to obtain an additional research tool to supplement existing computing facilities such as the International Business Machines equipment operated by the university's numerical analysis laboratory and the electrical engineering department's high-speed electronic differential analyzer; and 2. to provide training for both students and staff in the problems of computer design, construction, maintenance, and use."
"A WIDELY used flight-simulation method for flight trainers is the use of an analogue computing system employing a modulated 400-cycle-per-second (cps) carrier. A recent paper1 described four basic computing components that have been developed for use in computing systems of this type. Two of these components are vacuum-tube amplifiers. These are: 1. a summing amplifier of the voltage feedback type having a 1-per-cent accuracy of summation; and 2. a power amplifier for servomotor operation. This paper describes the design and characteristics of two transistor amplifiers that are directly interchangeable with these vacuum-tube amplifiers."
"THERE are three major communication agencies in Canada. The Trans-Canada Telephone System furnishes long-distance telephone service to the public across Canada and also provides privately leased telephone and telegraph circuits. The Canadian Pacific Railway Company and the Canadian National Railways each furnish commercial telegraph service throughout Canada, and they also provide a number of privately leased circuits, both telephone and telegraph."
"During a survey recently conducted for the U. S. Army, Navy, and Air Force, it was found that the control of radio interference was a serious problem to both designers of electronic equipment and to the military operational activities. Some of the critical areas of design that have affected equipment and system performance in the field are discussed herein. Several types of electronic equipment for ground and air-borne applications are discussed including radar, communications, and navigation apparatus. The effectiveness of practical suppression techniques such as shielding and filtering is also considered. Requirements of the current interference specifications are reviewed and techniques discussed for making conducted and radiated measurements of continuous-wave and broad-band interference sources."
"THE determination of the spot size of a cathode-ray tube has been, at best, a subjective process. Thus, the shrinking-raster method of measuring spot size relies on the judgment of the observer to determine when a set of lines appears to merge. Similarly, any attempt to measure the spot diameter with a microscope is also dependent upon the observer because of the way the flux density varies over the area of the spot.1"
"The measurement and control of temperature are basic to all industrial processes. Modern automatic machinery exploits the economy achieved by a continuous flow of product. Such machinery requires instrumentation capable of measuring the temperature of moving material in process for maximum efficiency. Total radiation pyrometers are useful for this purpose, and there is a continuing demand from industry for more sensitive, accurate, and versatile instruments. This paper describes two new pyrometers* applicable to a wide variety of industrial and laboratory measurements. They combine good spectral response, high sensitivity, and rapid response, with stability and accuracy adequate for most requirements. These factors are discussed in relation to the design of the pyrometers. The basis for transferring a radiation measurement to a temperature by calibration and some of the limitations involved are also considered."
"A CONVENTIONAL circuit for class B power amplification with transistors is shown in Fig. 1(A). The two transistors (p-n-p) are connected in the common emitter arrangement and in the absence of signal are quiescent at a point on the output characteristics such as P in Fig. 1(B). When a sinusoidal voltage signal is applied as base drive, the transistors operate on a load line such as PQ in alternate half-cycles, and a sinusoidal output is obtained. At any intermediate point on the load line PQ the active transistor sustains a collector-emitter voltage equal to the difference between the battery voltage and the instantaneous output voltage. The product of this collector-emitter voltage and the current flowing gives the instantaneous power loss in the transistor (excluding the small dissipation associated with the base drive). Simple calculations based on these considerations show that the maximum possible efficiency of this arrangement is 78 per cent and that maximum power dissipation occurs in the transistor when operating with an output that is 64 per cent of the possible full output voltage."
"These studies support the view that high-temperature heaters, such as the ceramic-type incandescent electric heater, exert a considerable bactericidal and sporicidal effect. When in operation in the home, the rates of reduction of air-borne micro-organisms generally are of the order of 50 per cent per hour for the more resistant spores. Where these electric heaters are the principal source of heat for a given home or room, it is reasonable to expect that the micro-organism content will reach a very low level after several hours of operation. It is clear that a considerable portion of the air circulating around the heater may not soon pass close enough for the organisms contained therein to be destroyed. It takes several hours of operation to achieve a stable minimum condition. The germicidal action appears to be much more rapid than that of ultraviolet light as ordinarily placed in a room but not so fast as with the use of a chemical material such as propylene glycol vapor."
"This paper describes a new coupling circuit applicable to both half-wave and full-wave magnetic amplifiers, particularly those amplifiers simultaneously requiring fast time response and large power gains. The pulse stretch technique uses a pulsating bias signal derived from an external supply to block the power winding of the reactor during reset. This blocking action permits free core control yielding an amplifier with an improved figure of merit."
"A novel method of analysis of the thermal behavior of transistor amplifiers is developed by introducing the temperature incremental equations of the transistor and of its associated d-c network. Design formulas for prescribed thermal stability, and in particular for the case of thermistor compensation, are derived. Experimental verifications of the theory are included."
"THERE ARE a growing number of applications in which a source of power at a higher frequency than the standard 60 or 400 cps (cycles per second) is either necessary or desirable. Rotating machines, electronic generators, and magnetic frequency multipliers are some of the devices which may be employed to obtain such a power supply. Magnetic frequency multipliers have certain inherent advantages which are leading to an expansion of their use. In this respect they are quite similar to magnetic amplifiers. Both devices consist of rugged, static components which have a high degree of reliability with a long life and which require little or no maintenance. They are available for use immediately after power is applied. They can be designed to meet the requirements of military specifications for operation under vibration, high shock, and extremes in ambient temperature. The major undesirable features of magnetic frequency multipliers are the low-input power factor and the relatively large size of the equipment. With the development of better core materials and circuits, a considerable improvement in these features has recently been achieved. Power at frequencies of two, three, four, five, or six times the input frequency may be generated with reasonable efficiency."
"An analytical procedure of design of common-emitter transistor audio amplifiers is given. The conditions of optimum design for maximum power output are derived for resistance-capacitance and transformer-coupled amplifiers, taking in consideration the limitations of the collector characteristics. Finally, the distortion caused by nonlinearity of the collector characteristic is computed."
"AN IMPORTANT oscillator circuit which converts d-c to a-c square waves having an output frequency proportional to the d-c input voltage was developed by Royer.1 The circuit, shown in Fig. 1, employs a magnetic core constructed of square hysteresis loop material and two junction transistors operated as controlled switches.2 As the circuit oscillates, the core flux swings repetitively between its positive and negative saturation levels,  max, the rate of flux excursion being proportional to the input voltage Ein. Thus, the frequency of oscillation is given by $f = {E_{in} \\over 4N_{1 \\phi \\max}} \\eqno{\\hbox{(1)}}$ where N1 is the number of turns of the windings in the collector circuit. Since the flux saturation levels max vary with temperature, the output frequency is temperature-dependent. The output power is drawn from the input voltage source Ein, hence no power amplification is realized in this circuit."
"TRANSISTORS and diodes have been employed successfully as basic building blocks in the design of switching systems. Much progress is being made in the development of transistorized equipment which promises ultimately to supplant the more conventional electromechanical equipment that at present is in common use."
"THE CIRCUITS to be analyzed in this paper are the 2-branch series-resonant circuit shown in Fig. 1; and the 2-mesh, parallel resonant circuit shown in Fig. 2. There are several approaches for analyzing such circuits based upon developments by Duffing, Poincar, Kryloff and Bogoliuboff and others.1 9 The choice of one approach over another depends on the accuracy desired, the accuracy obtainable, and the exact problem confronting the analyst. It should be noted that all of the known analytical methods suffer from one inherent disadvantage: they produce solutions for only the case under consideration without any hint as to the totality of solutions available. A qualitative method, known as the topological approach, gives an over-all picture of the totality of solutions but yields no specific information on any particular case.3,5,6"
"The phenomenon of nonlinear resonance can be utilized in the design of a trigger pair which uses neither vacuum tubes nor transistors, is capable of highspeed operation, and operates with electrical input and output signals. This article outlines the analysis of the basic circuit to a first approximation only, and design relations are derived. Experimental data are also given. Applications of the circuit described may be found in the logic components of digital data-handling apparatus."
"THE transmission of digital information over long distances for the operation of business machines is a problem that will engage increasing attention of communication engineers. High-speed electronic computer-type business machines are being called upon more and more to operate on information fed from distant points. This new form of transmission results in encoded information which is not at all intelligible in the accustomed sense. Such communication is nevertheless telegraphy in every true sense of the word. The record of this new form of record communication may not be a printed page but rather a record more easily reread into the computer machine when needed. The technical problems encountered in the transportation of business-machine information from one point to another are those long familiar to the telegraph engineer."
"TO MEET the increasing demands from its patrons for automation equipment, the Western Union Telegraph Company has completed the design of an extremely versatile data control system for use with high-speed electronic computers at centralized integrated data-processing (IDP) centers. This system serves as the main artery for data information which can be transmitted simultaneously from cities throughout the country over a Western Union telegraph network. As each unit of classified information is received, it is automatically processed into the proper data category for efficient and high-speed programming by modern computers."
"This test set is designed to make gain-frequency measurements of a video transmission circuit over the range of 100 kc to 10 mc (megacycles) and present the characteristic on an oscilloscope. The test signal is arranged to include a simulated horizontal synchronizing pulse for use on video circuits equipped with pulse operated devices such as clampers. It is intended for operation where the transmitter and receiver are at separate locations. Provision is made at the receiver for quantitative determination of gain deviation and frequency."
"RECENT developments in transistors indicate great promise for a high-gain, high-power-output servo amplifier consisting of a transistor preamplifier in combination with a fast-response half-wave bridge magnetic power amplifier. Existing literature on this type of magnetic amplifier does not discuss certain problems inherent in applying this device as an output stage fed by an a-c pre-amplifier.1,2 Among these are the problems of reduced output as a result of large control signals, and variation in operation caused by different types of load."
"THIS PAPER describes a short-haul microwave radio system now providing toll quality telephone message service between San Diego (elevation 320 feet), Calif., and the Laguna Mountain recreation area (elevation 6100 feet), Calif. The microwave portion of the system employs Motorola frequency diversity equipment operating in the 5,925 to 6,425 mc (megacycle) common carrier allocation. The microwave system is presently multiplexed with 28 channels of Lenkurt 45 BX carrier telephone channelizing equipment."
"HALF-DUPLEX multistation teletypewriter lines efficiently meet the needs of several points that require record communication with each other. In such cases it is important to be able to send messages to selected stations only. This ability is necessary to save paper, to provide privacy, and to avoid the need to scan all messages at each station to find those addressed to it. Direct interstation communication avoids sending all messages to a relay center for retransmission to other stations. This saves line and attendant time. To facilitate sending messages to addressee stations only, manually operated selective calling devices have been used. By present standards these are relatively slow. In addition, until recently it was necessary for attendants to initiate transmission of messages only when the line was idle. On a busy line this frequently required waiting for the line to become idle as shown by a line lamp. The attendant could then seize the line, operate the selecting equipment, and send the message. Sometimes attendants at two or more stations attempted to seize the line simultaneously. Unsuccessful attendants, unfortunately, had to resume waiting. On a busy line this procedure required appreciable amounts of nonproductive line and attendant time. Furthermore, there was no way to give an urgent message priority over other messages."
"Because of the need for more accurate and versatile control capabilities than can be obtained economically with continuous systems, discrete filters (digital computers) are being substituted as control elements in many applications. The exact response of linear systems which combine continuous and discrete filters can be obtained for discrete values of time by a series of well-defined mathematical processes. Since these processes require many computations of a repetitive nature to obtain complete response data, manual methods of computing are often not practicable and general-purpose digital computers such as the IBM (International Business Machines Corporation) type 650 are used to assist in the analysis of these systems."
"A SERIES circuit consisting of a capacitance, resistance, and a saturable reactor may, because of the nonlinearity, have a markedly different response from that of the corresponding linear circuit when a periodic voltage is impressed.14 This difference manifests itself in two ways: 1. Jump phenomena occur. 2. The response may contain harmonics which are not present in the impressed voltage. The harmonics may be integral multiples or exact submultiples of the frequency of the impressed voltage. This paper deals with subharmonic response, that is the fundamental frequency of the response is an exact submultiple of the impressed frequency. Specifically, the introduction of an idealized nonlinear inductor makes possible the calculation of the effect of hysteresis in the iron on the response; it also makes possible such calculation of the effect of the impressed wave form. Various types and orders of subharmonic response are predicted and their dependence on two normalized parameters is established theoretically and experimentally."
"THE NUMBER 5 crossbar switching system was described by Korn and by Ferguson1 in 1950, just a year and a half after the first installation was placed in service at Media, Pa. These authors mentioned the growing need  ... for a dial system which would better meet the telephone switching requirements for areas on the outskirts of metropolitan cities and at the same time care for medium-to-large sized offices in other areas. Since that time, the basic switching plan of this system has proved to be so flexible and adaptable that it is finding an ever-expanding application in many new combinations of switching requirements. After a brief review of the basic switching plan described in more detail in the previous article, this paper will cover some of the new features since added to the system."
"A CIRCUIT designer contemplating the use of a relay must consider its operating characteristics and the reliability of its contacting function. The electric erosion causing contact wear gives rise to contact surface conditions permitting contact failure to open a circuit caused by locking; particularly in talking circuits, reliability can be further impaired by the operating environment which may contain corrosive elements, organic vapors, or mobile dirt, all of which increase the probability of failure to give contact closure. Unfortunately, the incidence of these factors affecting reliability is not predictable with respect to time or place. The considerations involved are not unlike those associated with electron tubes and transistors. Because of the growth in the complexity of electric switching systems increasing emphasis is placed upon the elimination of factors affecting component reliability. In the Bell System one means to achieve improved reliability has been the development of sealed contacts. Two types have reached application, both providing encapsulation to free contacts from the effects of environment; one type, in addition, circumvents the effects of electric erosion by employing liquid contact surfaces. The development of sealed contacts and relays using such contacts has been described elsewhere;1-4 the purpose of this paper is to consider some of their characteristics from the standpoint of application."
"Considerable information may be obtained concerning polarization in barium titanate ceramics by a careful analysis of hysteresis loops. Mathematically it is shown that both symmetrical and unsymmetrical loops, the latter being characteristic of polarized specimens, can be represented best by a Fourier series. It was found that direct voltage and even harmonic components are present in the unsymmetrical loops. The per-cent second harmonic and the electromechanical coupling coefficient both rise with increasing depolarizing voltage and reach a maximum value at approximately 15,000 volts per cm (centimeter). The measurement of the second harmonic is possible even when the activity is so small that measurement of the coupling coefficient becomes very inaccurate or impossible. The addition of calcium titanate in small percentages markedly raises the coercive force but lowers the spontaneous and remanent polarization in the range from 0 to 80 C (degrees centigrade). However, it does not have marked effect between the latter temperature and the Curie point. It was found from studies of the discharge currents on depolarizing specimens by sudden immersion in hot oil that the polarization observed from the discharge curves is essentially the same as the remanent polarization determined from oscillograms of saturated hysteresis loops."
"ALMOST all of the many good textbooks on analysis of electric circuits include analysis of nonsinusoidal waves. Equations are usually given which determine the amplitude of each term of the Fourier trigonometric series. If the dependent variable can be expressed in terms of the independent variable, the familiar relations"
"THE Bell Telephone System wire spring relays have become the basic circuit components of telephone switching systems developed during the past few years. These relays are provided in many varieties to meet circuit needs. They are similar in operation and construction and have been described to a large extent in earlier publications.1,2 It is the purpose of this paper to highlight some of the design features which permit automatic control, during manufacture, of important operating characteristics. This subject has not been covered in the earlier articles and is of considerable importance to low-cost manufacture and proper operation of these relays."
"CROSSBAR tandem is a relatively young switching system. It first went into service in 1941. Its original role was well defined although, in retrospect, severely limited; it was to take over in large metropolitan areas the functions of the panel-type office selector tandem system, even as the no. 1 crossbar system1 took over from the local panel central office. However, even at that early date, its latent potentialities for a broader field of usefulness were appreciated. This appreciation could not then be implemented because during World War II development of telephone switching facilities at Bell Telephone Laboratories came to a near standstill. The needs of national defense transformed switching development engineers almost overnight into designers and teachers of radar, sonar, etc. True, there followed the great postwar surge of switching development activities but these, in turn, involved new systems urgently needed to start customer and operator nation-wide dialing.1 This period saw the development of the no. 5 crossbar local switching system,2 the automatic message accounting (AMA) system,3 and the 4A crossbar long-distance switching system.4 In view of this tremendous development program of new systems, the available development talent had to be practically rationed, and so only a moderate amount of effort could be applied to the crossbar tandem system to increase its scope of usefulness. The outcome of this effort and the basic description of the crossbar tandem system were presented in 1950.5 The closing paragraph of this 1950 paper was the following statement: An extensive development program is now in progress to incorporate new features which will still further enhance the usefulness of crossbar tandem in the rapid expansion of automatic switching in the Bell Telephone System. By now, this extensive development program referred to is nearing completion, and it is the purpose of the present paper to highlight the significant new features embodied in the 1956 design version of the crossbar tandem system."
"Many unique engineering problems had to be solved before successful automatic manufacturing facilities could be developed to produce high quality reed switches at low cost for the Telephone System. This paper outlines the engineering program that lead to the successful completion of this project."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front inside cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"The present engineering shortage is discussed, with stress on industry's responsibility to utilize effectively the available supply of skilled manpower. The growing prestige of the engineering profession is emphasized."
"The various television standards in use throughout the world and comparisons of their performance are discussed. In addition, the author points out some of the difficulties arising from this multiplicity of standards."
"ANEW METHOD for measuring radiated interference by the use of a screen room has been developed. The screen room, by providing an electromagnetically noise-free region, permits the measurement of weak radiation in laboratory and factory areas. Accompanying this improvement in measuring sensitivity is the problem of dealing with the multiple reflections created by the metallic boundaries."
"IN 1952, the-resistance-versus-direct voltage (R/V) test1 was proposed as a means of measuring, nondestructively, the breakdown voltage of damaged insulation."
"The problem of the availability of brainpower for maintenance of our economic and social organization is in reality two closely connected problems, as discussed, and both are related to the question as to whether our colleges can produce in the form of engineers, administrators, etc., the necessary brainpower for our expanding economy."
"SINCE 1948, some 75 Rural Electrification Administration (REA) borrowers have constructed rural distribution systems which operate at 14.4/24.9 kilovolts (kv), grounded wye. Most of this construction has been in the sparsely settled areas of the South and Southwest where a number of factors combine to make the use of this voltage very attractive."
"Receiving and transmitting printing telegraph equipment generally requires some form of auxiliary equipment for switching and remote control. In many cases, this auxiliary equipment is complex, costly, and requires as much space and electric power as the controlled equipment. A new concept has been realized in the development of the Teletype Model 28 typing unit, which may be utilized to perform many electrical and mechanical functions for selective calling, remote control, integrated data processing, and other special functions."
"A LOAD TRANSFER CONTACTOR is a device which connects a bank of loads to one of two power sources, herein called the normal and alternate power sources. Self-contained load transfer contactors presently employed in aircraft contain three sensing relays, each relay being connected line-to-neutral, to detect failure of the normal power source. This arrangement has the disadvantages that line-to-line faults on the normal power source may not be detected, required close tolerances on pickup and dropout voltage are difficult to maintain in an aircraft environment, and loads may be unnecessarily transferred to an alternate power source."
"FORMULAS HAVE BEEN AVAILABLE for a long time for damping and synchronizing torque coefficients of a synchronous machine hunting while in normal synchronous operation. These formulas have been used in many studies of hunting phenomena, and numerical values of the coefficients for a range of synchronous-generator parameters have been reported previously."
"This article discusses the imposed requirements at the design point, or when receiving a minimum of high-pressure air supply from the compressor, and the penalty involved at the cruise condition. Turbine configurations and control-system response rates are compared."
"A revision of AIEE Standard Number 1, General Principles upon which Temperature Limits Are Based in the Rating of Electric Machines and Other Equipment, was necessitated because of the present use of many new materials and the fact that past appraisals of materials were incomplete. A general plan for such a revision, as well as proposals for overcoming immediate difficulties in the present standard, has been formulated by the working groups of AIEE Standard Co-ordinating Committee Number 4 and are presented in this article."
"THE STEEL INDUSTRY in the United States is a large user of d-c electric power. Until approximately 20 years ago, the motor-generator set was used exclusively to supply the large amounts of. d-c power for steel-mill service. Recently, however, ignitron rectifiers have found increasingly frequent use in the making of steel. The single-line diagram of a large rod mill using ignitron rectifiers of the continuously evacuated metal-enclosed type is shown in Fig. 1. This rectifier power supply is being utilized in a large Midwestern rod mill."
"For the first time, practical use is made of the high insulating and current interrupting ability of a high vacuum. Tests show that a vacuum switch with but 1/10-inch contact travel can clear 79-amperes at 66-kv rms has a breakdown strength of 100-kv rms."
"EFFECTIVE KILOVAR PLANNING, which is becoming capacitor planning for many electrical systems, requires detailed knowledge of system reactive power characteristics and operating requirements. Planning kilovar generating capacity then becomes analogous to planning kilowatt generating capacity. In both instances, load is forecast and generating capacity for the load plus appropriate reserve for system contingencies is planned."
"The construction and operation of a new facsimile telegraph transmitter developed by Western Union are described. Unlike the common type of transmitter in which the message must be wrapped around a drum, this unit is designed so that the message sheet needs no manipulation and may be of any desired length."
"A review of regulator principles and a comparison of the three popular types, as presented, make these electric-circuit tools more useful and more readily adopted. In industry, they are applied as voltage, current, speed, tension, and position regulators, to name but a few of the many applications."
"The nuclear power reactor furnishes an excellent illustration of many of the principles and problems involved in the field of nuclear engineering. The design and operation of a portable electronic reactor simulator suitable for teaching purposes are discussed."
"OVER 5,000 MEMBERS from all parts of the United States and Canada were present at the 1956 Winter General Meeting held in the Statler Hotel in New York City from January 30 to February 3. This was the largest annual winter gathering in the 72 year history of the Institute. There were 209 technical papers presented, and 229 conference papers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A PUBLIC RELATIONS WORKSHOP for Section Representatives was held on Tuesday afternoon. The meeting was opened by Fischer Black, chairman of the Public Relations Committee, and he gave a preview of the principles, so that the Section representatives might carry out good AIEE Public Relations. Attention was drawn to the fact that AIEE activities were both professional and social. The objective or basic philosophy of the Institute, as stated in Article I, Section 2, of the Constitution is the advancement of the theory and practice of electrical engincering and the allied arts and sciences, and the maintenance of a high professional standing. The Public Relations Committee directed its activities toward the students, members of the Institute, business organizations, and the general public; the basic root was considered to be top leadership."
"THE AIEE 1956 Summer and Pacific General Meeting to be held in the Fairmont Hotel in San Francisco June 2529 offers an excellent technical program and a wide variety of inspection trips. In addition, a full and entertaining program for the ladies, coupled with the unexcelled tourist attractions of northern California and the West provide an ideal opportunity to incorporate a family vacation with a business trip to the convention."
"THE AIEE GREAT LAKES District Meeting for 1956 will be held April 1618 at the Van Orman Hotel in Fort Wayne, Ind. Known for its many diversified industries, Fort Wayne is the third largest city in Indiana. An outstanding technical program based upon the future developments in electrical engineering has been arranged. This three-day meeting is complete with a full social program featuring luncheons, buffets, and a dinner-dance. The theme of this meeting, Engineering Futures Unlimited, is vividly supported by the planned inspection trips."
"THE NORTH EASTERN DISTRICT meeting will be held at the Sheraton Hotel in Rochester, N. Y., on Wednesday, May 24. A. M. Beebee, president of the Rochester Gas and Electric Corporation, will be the principal speaker. There will be numerous interesting inspection trips to supplement the technical program. For further information of this meeting, refer to the March 1956, Electrical Engineering, page 288."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"THIS ARTICLE was written by G. V. Lago who is an AIEE Member, and on the Committee on Student Branches."
"Each year the student branches in the various AIEE districts hold a District Prize Paper Competition. The contestants for the district contests are selected by local Student Branch Prize Paper Competitions. Any national Student Member of AIEE is eligible to participate by preparing a paper on some technical or engineering subject. The papers are judged both on the written and oral presentations. The Prize Rules were published in the September 1952 issue of Electrical Engineering."
"RECENTLY, a new four-motor diesel-electric locomotive was introduced by Alco Products, Inc. The power plant for the versatile road switcher is a new design, 12-cylinder, 1,800-hp Vee-type model 251 Alco engine."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A REVOLUTIONARY new electronic auto mechanic which can pinpoint engine troubles in a matter of seconds was demonstrated by Allen B. Du Mont Laboratories, Inc., in New York, N. Y., recently."
"THE UNITED STATES is strong and wealthy. Her people eat well, dress well, and play well. But manytoo manydo not live well, because they live on streets and in neighborhoods that have started to decline, to grow shabby, and to decay. The death of a neighborhood is tragic. The tragedy is that, too often, the rest of the community turns its back on such neighborhoods. As a result, some part of the whole community dies with it."
"A DETAILED STUDY of how sea surface temperatures influence hurricane birth, growth, and decline will be made by New York University (NYU) meteorologists for the next 12 months under a $17,500 grant from the United States Weather Bureau."
"USING A 3.5-MC OUTPUT from a 1.5-kw oscillator as a power source, a new multipurpose lamp was introduced recently by Sylvania Electric Products, Inc. The lamp transforms this radio-frequency energy into light energy so brilliant that it is brighter than any incandescent lamp devised."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the back inside cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The actual structural breakdown of the Institute is delineated, using the Committee on Air Transportation as a working example."
"THE BEHAVIOR of direct-current arcs when subjected to uniform transverse magnetic fields up to 200 gausses has been investigated at atmospheric pressure over a current range between 3 and 100 amperes. Electrodes studied include silver, copper, aluminum, carbon, tungsten, molybdenum, nickel, and titanium."
"There is a universal, basic drive toward better living through expanded utilization of energy. The progress and promise of nuclear energy uses in the electric power field are discussed."
"ONE OF THE CHIEF FACTORS in establishing a reliable electronic system is to assure compatibility of the operating environment and the capabilities of the active electronic device. This can best be brought about by close co-operation between the equipment and component designers."
"The highly competitive aircraft equipment industry must give more attention to the prestige of engineers in order to hold capable men for management as well as line organization."
"TO FILL A GROWING DEMAND for a medium channel capacity microwave equipment tailored to toll telephone service, the Type 72B radio package has been developed. Requirements placed on this design have been: (a) wire line reliability; (b) toll-quality performance on noise and crosstalk; (c) integration into the telephone plant; and (d) adaptability to existing wire line carrier systems."
"AS THE AMERICAN STANDARD ASSOCIATION'S test code for apparatus noise measurement1 is now considered obsolete, these data are intended to serve the electrical industry as a guide in the 1- or 2-year interim before publication of a revised American Standards Association (ASA) standard."
"This brief summary of the sometimes misunder-stood subject of grounding is from notes the author has used, and continually revised, for several years in discussion at inspector and contractor meetings in connection with National Electrical Code work. Although many safety problems are solved by grounding, it is pointed out that isolation or insulation, where it can be accomplished, may better serve the purpose."
"Three Belgian-built ships, the first constructed in accordance with American requirements using mineral-insulated metallic-sheathed cable and the first in the world using this cable for all purposes, will go into service in the near future. It is predicted that eventually land installations of wire and conduit will be superseded by metallic or other similar acceptable cables."
"MANY METHODS have been proposed and used during the past 50 years for calculating the starting performance of synchronous motors. Although many of these have been quite satisfactory for the bulk of design and application work, each method suffers from one of two basic faults. If the method is simple enough for routine hand calculation, much detail is lost in the solution, and the sweeping assumptions that must be made to simplify the equivalent circuits introduce considerable error. On the other hand, if the method is sufficiently detailed to eliminate these disadvantages, the numerical calculations become very ponderous."
"The new beacons atop New York's Empire State Building, generating a total of nearly two billion candle power, will provide the world's brightest continuous source of man-made light. The features and operations of the system are described."
"PERHAPS the most widely discussed distribution problem arises from the necessity of transporting energy considerable distances at low voltage. With increased load densities, it is necessary to use large secondary conductors to keep voltage variations and power loss within acceptable bounds, and supplementary means of voltage control are often needed. Even then, it is sometimes impossible to utilize the full thermal capability of distribution transformers because of voltage problems."
"METHODS FOR PROVIDING the best possible short-circuit protection of busway systems continue to be of prime importance to users and manufacturers of this equipment. The importance of preventing fault-current damage to the busway system arises from the necessity of protecting plant personnel, the high replacement cost of the equipment itself, and the financial and productive losses occurring through the forced inactivity of large sections of the industrial plant. The current-limiting fuse has been investigated and found that it contributes significantly to the improvement of short-circuit protection of busways and associated equipment."
"An account of the development of liquid cooling for turbine-generator armature windings is presented. Included is the solution of various detail problems which have arisen in the course of perfecting the new cooling method."
"TO EVALUATE INSULATION SYSTEMS, periods of humidification and operation at elevated temperatures (i.e, temperatures in the range of 175 to 275 C) are necessary if experimental data on the life of the system are to be realized in a reasonable length of time. After insulation life data has been obtained under several different operating conditions, the problem then is to evaluate the system in terms of its suitability for commercial use. A statistical technique whereby this evaluation can be achieved is known as regression analysis, which is concerned with the study of the relationship between two or more variables. In applying this analysis, it may be necessary to edit and transform the data; but in essence, this analysis involves the determination and significance testing of the functional relationship and the determination of the confidence envelope for the estimated relationship."
"EXTENSIVE experimental and analytical studies have provided a basic understanding of the manifestation of arc cathode instability relative to fluctuations of arc voltage as influenced by electrical, chemical, and geometrical parameters. These studies have contributed significantly to the development of controlled cathode stabilization systems of the argon-shielded consumable electrode arcs as applied to the welding of mild steel."
"An electromagnetic chuck with an important safety feature has been designed at Penn State's Ordnance Research Laboratory. With this device, the danger of injury as the result of power interruption or failure is eliminated."
"This article covers the development of a 5,000-mva compressed-air circuit breaker in Canada, which retains the features of the grounded-steel-tank oil breaker and incorporates most of the advantages of the porcelain-clad air breaker. The preliminary and verification test data presented should be of considerable interest."
"THE DEVELOPMENT of communication theory has led to the introduction of concepts such as integration, correlation, matched filtering, comb filtering, probability of detection, etc. Much confusion centers about their significance because of functional equivalence and because of inadequately defined purposes in their use. Thus, it may be overlooked that integration and correlation are equivalent operations, or that matched filtering or comb filtering are techniques of integration. The purpose in using these concepts can be understood properly only within frameworks of suitable criteria of performance. For example, it is frequently assumed that the end object of a filtering technique is to improve the signal-to-noise ratio, whereas it is actually a means to an end. This end is to increase the information rate over a communication channel or to increase the probability of detection of a search radar, etc."
"A number of changes were made in the AIEE Constitution in 1955, the majority of which deal with membership qualifications. The new requirements and the reasoning behind these requirements are outlined."
"RAPID LOAD GROWTH during the past few years has dictated the installation of new high-voltage transmission lines through densely populated urban areas served by The Detroit Edison Company. Overhead construction, being much cheaper, is preferred; however, right-of-ways difficulties or local ordinances may require underground construction or at least the use of a section of underground cable in a high-voltage line. A composite line of this description was selected to supply new Northwest Station and, also, serve as part of a system tie between existing Northeast and Evergreen Stations."
"M-S-W forms have been designed for maximum economy in the use of coil material. This article shows that coils, of various inductances, with high inductive efficiencies may be wound using a single modified M-S-W winding form."
"THE ACCEPTED METHOD of purchasing engineering equipment is by competitive bidding. The problem presented here is the problem of the favorite. Let us assume that for one reason or another we have settled on a favorite supplier of synchronous motors. We are convinced that this is the right and the only equipment to recommend. We are now faced with several ethical questions, such as: How can we justify our position and avoid taking competitive bids? If we have taken this position, do we have a right to ask for competitive bids? If we are forced to ask for competitive bids, should we arrange to purchase our favorite product by devious means?"
"The use of ammeters as indicators of per cent of motor load on machine tools is becoming more and more widespread. They provide excellent motor protection, eliminate unnecessary stoppages, and permit the operator to exercise a high degree of control."
"THE 7TH ANNUAL Appliance Technical Conference which is sponsored by the AIEE Committee on Domestic and Commercial Applications, will be held in Milwaukee, Wis., May 1415, in the Wisconsin Hotel."
"PLANS FOR THE 1956 Summer and Pacific General Meeting at the Fairmont Hotel in San Francisco, June 2529, are nearing completion. A full and diversified program seems assured. A variety of technical programs and field trips, plus entertainment and sports programs have been planned, and a full program for the ladies is included. In addition, northern California offers excellent vacation opportunities. A San Francisco travel agency has been appointed official travel agent to arrange a gala post meeting tour to Hawaii at attractive rates."
"The 1956 Transistor Circuits Conference was held in Philadelphia, Pa., February 1617, in the Irvine Auditorium and the University Museum Auditorium, under the joint auspices of AIEE, Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE), and the University of Pennsylvania. A total of 1,164 people attended the conference which was nearly 48 per cent more than in 1955. Since the first conference held in 1954, attendance at the conference has doubled."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Conference papers listed below have been accepted for AIEE Transactions and are now open for written discussion until May 31. Duplicate double-spaced typewritten copies of each discussion should be sent to Edward C. Day, Assistant Secretary for Technical Papers, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y., on or before May 31."
"Editor's Note: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. T."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"HAVING ENJOYED what amounts to a second career in the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, I want to recommend, unqualifiedly, to all students of electrical engineering and young graduates in that field, membership in the Institute and participation in its activities. Professionally, technically, and socially, you will find the AIEE stimulating and broadening."
"An educational experiment at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) has indicated that colleges of science and engineering could successfully advance some students to graduate studies without benefit of the senior year."
"RECENT APPLICATIONS will result in 100 per cent of the junior class of the department of electrical engineering, State College of Washington, Pullman, Wash., having national membership in the AIEE or the Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE). The senior class has previously attained this goal. It is believed that the AIEE-IRE Joint Student Branch at this college is the only student branch to claim a true 200 per cent Club, 100 per cent of the seniors and 100 per cent of the juniors. In addition, there are a sufficient number of sophomores who are national members to boost the membership to 280 per cent. Because of these facts, State College of Washington offers a challenge to other colleges in the United States to top this goal."
"WATCHING PLANE approaching on one of three monitors in tower control center are Comdr. Robert Corlett, operations officer (left) and Comdr. W. M. Heaman, public works officer; looking on is R. T. Silberman, vice-president, Kay Lab."
"A UNIQUE dosed circuit television system specifically designed for the purpose of extending the field of vision of an airport control tower operator has been developed by Kay Lab, San Diego, Calif. The need for this system has made itself apparent all over the country because with larger, faster propelled, and jet aircraft, longer runways are a necessity."
"THE ARMY now has a hand-held television camera and backcarried transmitter that a soldier-scout can use to send battle pictures to his command post."
"MISSILE MASTER, the country's first electronic system designed specifically for controlling and co-ordinating the use of NIKE antiaircraft missile batteries and other advanced Army weapons as they become available has been announced jointly by the U. S. Army and Glenn L. Martin."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A new Super Sabre Jetthe F-100Dthat can fly itself to a target has been flown for the first time by test pilot Dan Darnell, it was announced recently by North American Aviation, Inc., Los Angeles, Calif."
"Among the more dramatic displays at the IRE (Institute of Radio Engineers) Show, held at the Kingsbridge Armory, New York, N. Y., March 1922, was the Atomichron, the first commercially available atomic primary frequency standard."
"A new television service which will enable broadcasters in various areas to originate colorcasts of local events through the facilities of an RCA color television studio-on-wheels was announced recently by the Radio Corporation of America (RCA)."
"Traffic Engineering: The Yale University Bureau of Highway Traffic has announced the availability of fellowships in its Traffic Engineering course covering the next academic year of study starting September 17."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Honeywell Plant in Amiens, France. In a further foreign operations expansion, Minneapolis-Honeywell Regulator Company has started construction of a small plant at Amiens, France, to produce oil burner controls for that country's growing oil heating market. This will be the fifth Honeywell plant outside the United States. It also will be an industrial milestone for Amiens because the plant will represent the first foreign industry to establish manufacturing operations in that city. Commemorating this fact, the Amiens Chamber of Commerce presented a special medal to H. W. Sweatt, Honeywell's board chairman. The Amiens plant will produce primarily for the French market, but some of its output will probably also be exported to other European countries. The domestic oil heating market began developing after World War II when oil became available for home heating from the new French refineries."
"Rectilinear Recording Milliammeter. The first rectilinear recording milliammeter has been announced by Texas Instruments Inc. (TI). All the advantages of rectilinear recording, with signals presented in their true rectilinear appearance, removing the necessity of complicated data reduction, are combined in this ruggedized, ink-writing, galvanometer-actuated instrument, with front access for all routine operations. Included are front-located signal terminals (rear terminals optional), front-located switches and controls, writing area on chart for notations, disappearing sliding door, front-located zero adjust, front-filling inking system, swinging chart paper carriage, accessibility to perform all routine maintenance and adjustment procedures without removing case or disassembling, and fingertip gear-shift for changing chart speeds. The rectilinear recording milliammeter weighs less than 27 pounds and occupies less than 3/4 cubic feet. Electrical characteristics are as follows: 1 milliampere for full-scale deflection, 4 inches active chart width, 1,500 ohms input resistance, and undamped natural frequency of 2 cycles per second. Structurally, the TI recorder consists of interchangeable unit subassemblies mounted on a basic frame which simplifies addition of accessories, modification, or maintenance. The 100-foot chart roll can be run at a choice of 10 speeds, in inches per minute or inches per hour, making possible continuous recordings ranging from 1 hour and 40 minutes to 60 days. Six inches of chart length are always visible, representing as little as 30 seconds or as much as 8 hours, depending on chart speed. The paper feed mechanism has an automatic chart takeup in case the operator wishes to examine more than the normal 6 inches while the instrument is recording. Two event marker pens are available and indirect lighting of the chart is provided for convenience in night recording. TI rectilinear recording milliammeters can be operated from a-c, d-c, or spring-drive. Adapters are built in for external drive."
"VLF RI-FI Equipment Folder. A 4-page illustrated folder on versatile Very Low Frequency radio interference and field intensity measuring equipment is available from Stoddart. The literature features the Stoddart NM-10A, which combines laboratory precision with ruggedness and portability for all-weather field operation over a range of 14 kc to 250 kc. Also included is information on a complement of accessories designed to accommodate every conceivable laboratory or field problem in locating and measuring voltage and current values of radio signals or radio interference."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"To solve the greater problems to be faced by the electrical engineer of the future, he must learn to work with a team of technicians, some of whom will undoubtedly be women. Engineers will also be the intellectual community leaders who will be called upon to turn out more ideas."
"Future opportunities for engineers in the electrical utility field are discussed in the light of projected developments in automation and nuclear power."
"Control requirements for nuclear reactors of the pressurized water-cooled type are discussed. Embodiments of the systems required for a central station plant and for a ship's propulsion plant are described."
"THE CAPABILITY of high-voltage cable lines to deliver power diminishes rapidly as the length of line increases. This is shown in Fig. 1 which is valid for the cable sizes commonly used for operation at 132 kilovolts and higher voltages. Rough approximations for general use may also be taken from these curves for 66-kv cables, but new curves would have to be prepared for greater than 15-per-cent accuracy."
"The people by the Golden Gate are taking positive steps to create an efficient transportation system. A publicly owned interurban mass rapid transit system, designed to eliminate the time-wasting and hazardous traffic situation common to today's urban centers, has been recommended and is receiving strong support."
"MAGNETIC SERVO AMPLIFIERS, based upon various forms of full-wave or half-wave push-pull circuits, have been successfully applied in the realm of instrumentation and automatic control; and they have proved to be particularly suitable for use in high-performance instrument type servos for remote positioning applications. Another possibility is the use of such amplifiers in the operation of high-speed self-balancing potentiometers."
"As world population increases and deposits of coal, oil, and gas are depleted, the need for new sources of electric power becomes apparent. Suggestions are presented for bridging some of the potential gaps in our atomic energy program."
"The vital role the U. S. Air Force takes in the total research and development program of our nation, now faced with growing Soviet competition, is discussed. Long-range planning is necessary, as basic research begun today will generally provide knowledge in 1960, useable in design of weapon systems in 1965. As speeds approach Mach 2.0 at higher altitudes, more reliance is placed on electronics design."
"SINCE 1932, 60-cycle a-c systems have been used in most naval ship's service electrical installations, particularly installations of large capacity. These systems operated satisfactorily and served well during World War II. However, during and since that period the trend has been to increase the use of electric power, thereby increasing weight and space requirements of the electric plant out of proportion to the size of the ship, and to require improved performance of the equipment installed. In order to solve this problem, consideration must be given to the basic factors influencing electric equipment designs. For example, an increase in system frequency increases maximum speed of rotation, thereby decreasing the weight of rotating electric machinery. In addition, high-frequency transformers and reactors require a lower value of maximum flux and, hence, a smaller iron core than corresponding 60-cycle units. Inherently smaller time constants permit increased speed of response, an advantage in certain control systems."
"THE ELECTRICITY SUPPLY BOARD (ESB), Ireland, as a portion of its postwar expansion program, constructed a series of 110/38-kv transmission stations in the period 1948252. So far as possible, the stations were built to a common basic plan. However, they were not identical but varied in power-transformer ratings, complexity of control, and number of high-voltage outlets. Accordingly, their cost varied from roughly $14 to $20 per kva of installed transformer capacity. The control installations averaged 16 per cent of gross station cost."
"This new color-television system, the Vitascan, an all-electronic version of the old-style mechanical type, is the simplest and most reliable live-action color system now in existence. It can be regarded as using the reverse of conventional studio methods, as the flying-spot tube is substituted for the image-orthicon camera tube and clusters of phototubes replace regular studio lighting equipment."
"Six essential elements, constituting a firm foundation on which business leaders may build effective manager-development activities, are presented. Dynamic integrative unity is the incompassing concept to be considered, as all the elements need to be taken into consideration simultaneously for effectiveness."
"TWO POWER COMPANIES recently have experienced outages caused by lightning far in excess of the rate predicted by usual methods. Furthermore, it has been found that most of these outages are caused by the flashover of top or middle phase insulator strings on towers with very low footing resistance, which represent phenomena contrary to the usual theory. Many of these insulators have lightning-produced glaze burns, which hug the porcelain surface on both sides of the disk, even into the depths of the grooves between petticoats. This characteristic, coupled with laboratory experience in impulse testing, suggests that the lightning voltage pulses which produce these glaze burns have very steep fronts, and that in a fraction of a microsecond they probably reach crest potentials considerably in excess of the usual 1  40-microsecond-wave critical flashover voltage. Marks found on tower tops show where they have been hit by lightning strokes, and it is this observation which rules out the possibility that these anomalous flashovers may be because of shielding failures."
"CANADA'S ENORMOUS AREA, consisting of almost 4-million square miles, makes it the third largest country. Natural barriers separating the populated areas prevented the establishment of a transcontinental telephone system until 1932."
"Recent investigations of air-gap breakdown through holes in insulating materials, simulating faults in aircraft equipment, have produced valuable facts, such as those regarding dielectric fatigue, minimum test voltage, and transient voltage effects. However, need for testing at later stages is not eliminated, as during the various manufacturing processes, storage and use, damage or deterioration may be introduced."
"MODERN STEAM TURBINE-GENERATORS are complex pieces of equipment designed to operate continuously for long periods of time without shutdown. To operate one of these large generators properly requires the close following of operating guides and procedures for the particular type of unit. This article presents some recommendations by design engineers on procedures to be followed in starting, operating, and maintaining large, conventionally cooled turbine-generators."
"New theories concerning the structure of oil and the behavior of some of its basic constituents are explained in simplified terms. Their application to the requirements of the insulating oil problem is discussed."
"In view of the engineer's expanding role in our modern world, he must be prepared to accept the added professional responsibilities. Thus, it is the consensus of opinion that several supplements be made to the Canons of Ethics of the Engineers Council for Professional Development."
"THE AIM of electromagnetic theory is to investigate the properties of electromagnetic fields and relations to their sources. One problem in the latter category which is of some interest is that of determining the magnetic field due to a moving electric point charge. It is observed that the field is proportional to the magnitude of the charge, its velocity, and the sine of the angle its velocity makes with the line joining it to the point of observation, and inversely proportional to the square of the distance from the charge to the point of observation."
"THE AIEE 1956 Summer and Pacific General Meeting to be held in the Fairmont Hotel, San Francisco, Calif., June 2529, will offer a program and activities that will appeal to all interests. A full and interesting technical program is assured. Six inspection trips of both general and technical interest climaxed by a sightseeing boat tour up the bay to the largest fuel-electric power plant west of the Mississippi will complete the program. Sports events will be highlighted by a salmon derby outside the Golden Gate. A diversified entertainment program for the ladies, and special activities for students round out the Convention schedule. In addition to being host to the Convention, San Francisco is world famous as a vacation center. Places of historic interest and restful resort areas abound within easy driving distance. These features, combined with many other outstanding tourist attractions in northern California, offer an unequalled opportunity to combine a business trip to the Convention with a family vacation."
"BY SIMILAR ACTION of the governing bodies of the two national organizations, Corporate Members of the Institution of Electrical Engineers of Great Britain (IEE) and the AIEE will, under certain conditions, be admitted to the other society without the payment of entrance fees."
"AN OUTSTANDING MEETING of the South West District was held in Dallas, Tex., April 24, 1956, establishing an all-time attendance record of 1,230 for district meetings. The previous record of 900 was set by a Great Lakes Regional Meeting in Chicago, Ill., November 2830, 1927. The success of the meeting may be attributed to a well-arranged program built around the theme, Electricity in Aircraft, combined with an exhibit of the latest airborne electrical apparatus, components, and support items. Eight technical sessions on aircraft were held together with a number of sessions in the light and power field, several industrial sessions, and a management panel. The Student Branch Conference and prize paper competition, a General Session, two luncheon meetings, inspection trips, a dinner-dance, and special entertainment arrangements for the ladies rounded out the program."
"THE FORT WAYNE SECTION was host to over 500 AIEE members, students, and guests at the Great Lakes District Meeting held at the Van Orman Hotel in Fort Wayne, Ind., April 1618, 1956."
"NINETEEN MAJOR TOPICS involving 40 items of business were considered at the meeting of the AIEE Board of Directors, held in Dallas, Tex., April 3, 1956. The following is an outline of some of the more important actions of the Board which are of immediate interest to the members of the Institute. Some of the topics discussed and acted upon by the Board are reported in greater detail elsewhere in this issue of Electrical Engineering."
"Conference papers listed below have been accepted for AIEE Transactions and are now open for written discussion until June 26. Duplicate double-spaced typewritten copies of each discussion should be sent to Edward G. Day, Assistant Secretary for Technical Papers, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y., on or before June 26."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Editor's Note: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"THE DISTRICT 4 STUDENT Conference and Paper Competition was held at Clemson College, Clemson, S. C., April 1113, 1956. Students, counselors, and guests numbering 177 attended the meeting. The program included a social hour on Wednesday evening, April 11; student paper presentations on Thursday and Friday mornings, April 12 and 13; industrial plant inspection tours on the afternoons of April 12 and 13; and a banquet and business meeting on the evening of April 13."
"The AIEE student prize paper competition at the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology (SDSMT) branch was held February 21. Winners were William Reuter, Alternator Short Circuits, first place; Delmar Schley, A Bass Reflex Speaker Enclosure, second place; Erich Bruescke, Characteristics of Snap Action in Magnetic Amplifiers, and John Mohr, Detection of Polarity of Corona Discharge, honorable mention."
"The University of Idaho's annual Associated Engineer's Ball was held February 18 in the Student Union Ballrooms of the U of I campus. All students of the College of Engineering and their friends were invited to attend."
"JAMES MASSEY (second from right), Ottawa, III., won the annual student paper competition at the University of Notre Dame sponsored by the South Bend section of the AIEE. His subject was The Magnetic Pole. He recently won a National Science Foundation fellowship and plans to take advanced studies at the University of Illinois. Other finalists in the competition were (left to right) Robert Minck, Defiance, Ohio; Greg Conron, New Canaan, Conn.; and George Krembs, Merrill, Wis. L. F. Slauder, associate professor of electrical engineering and faculty moderator holds award certificate."
"THE WORLD'S LARGEST reversible pump-turbine unit is the heart of a unique plan for storing large blocks of power at the Tennessee Valley Authority's (TVA) Hiwassee Dam. This is the first installation in the Western Hemisphere of a reversible pump-turbine for the initial purpose of helping to level system load curves. The pump-turbine was designed and built by Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Company."
"BELIEVED TO BE the world's most modern factory for making induction motors, the medium induction motor department was unveiled in Schenectady, N. Y., by General Electric (GE) recently."
"NAUTICAL COMPASSES today have a new look because of a simple permanent magnet design. Besides a new look, they are less expensive and more accurate."
"DESIGNED to go across deep snow fields with close to 100,000 pounds of military supplies on its back, a cross-country freight train has just been delivered to the Army Transportation Corps for use above the Arctic Circle."
"THE 14th Street Businessmen's Association converted 14th Street between Union Square and Avenue of the Americas into the most intensely illuminated thoroughfare in the City of New York by the use of 22 V shaped 8-foot Luxaire fluorescent luminaires mounted on aluminum poles."
"MASS PRODUCTION of precision-machined valve bodies, for higher quality at lower manufacturing costs, is provided by a unique new transfer machine, according to Manning, Maxwell and Moore, Inc., who will use the machine in the Watertown, Mass., plant to manufacture its Hancock gate type high-pressure steel valves. Engineered and built by Baker Bros., Inc., of Toledo, Ohio, at a cost of over $250,000, the machine employs many of the principles of automation for the first time in the valve industry."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Electronic Cable Manufacture. A recent entry into the growing electronic industry in Southern California is Pacific Automation Products, Inc., Glendale, Calif., specializing in the design, engineering, and manufacturing of electronic cable for missiles and industry. In keeping with emphasis on individual component development for the complex, efficient electronic systems used in automation today, Pacific Automation Products has developed a new concept: treat the inter-unit electronic cable as component, complete with connectors, ready to install."
"Modular Cathode-Ray Oscillograph. The experimental unit, identical in performance and operation to Du Mont's newly developed type 350 cathode-ray oscillograph, was demonstrated at the Institute of Radio Engineers Show, Kingsbridge Armory, New York, N. Y. The modular oscillograph is the latest in the long list of innovations by Du Mont during 25 years of pioneering in electronics, including the first commercially practical cathode-ray tube and the first all electronic television receiver. Developed as a mass production technique by the United States Bureau of Standards, under contract to the United States Navy Bureau of Aeronautics, and by American Car and Foundry Electronics, the modular design uses components printed on ceramic wafers. Each module represents a complete circuit element and is wired into its proper position. The circuits are connected by printed wiring. The combination of modular construction and printed wiring affords complete uniformity of circuitry, rugged construction, and excellent environmental characteristics. Outstanding features of a modular constructed instrument, according to Du Mont engineers, are the simplicity and rapidity of maintenance and repair. Instruments are repaired simply by discarding a faulty module and replacing it with a new one."
"Industrial Atomic Energy Developments. This release is intended to serve American industry as a guide to Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) developed unclassified information of special industrial interest. You will find listed current AEC unclassified reports on technology. Every effort has been made to limit coverage to reports of AEC developments of direct industrial interest, as distinguished from reports covering developments more scientific or theoretical in nature. All of the reports listed in this release may be inspected at the following AEC industrial information depositories: Atomic Industrial Forum, Inc., 260 Madison Avenue, New York 16, N. Y.; Georgia Institute of Technology Library, Atlanta, Ga.; the John Crerar Library, 86 East Randolph Street, Chicago 1, Ill.; and Stanford Research Institute, Stanford, Calif. In addition to maintaining their reports in convenient form for reference use, these depositories have agreed to furnish all requesters, at nominal charge, photocopies of any report in their AEC collection. The AEC encourages reproduction of AEC unclassified reports, subject to prior arrangement with the authors and with the contracting organizations for which they work. Any organization interested in receiving subsequent releases of Nuclear Notes for Industry should write to the Industrial Information Branch, U. S. Atomic Energy Commission, Washington 25, D. C."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Analyses of what engineers do in an operating utility and how their talents work out to their own and the community's best advantages are important, when considering how engineers in colleges are to be trained for the utility field."
"POWER TRANSMISSION at 330 kv is now an accomplished fact in the United States and it seems quite likely that still higher voltage lines may be needed in the near future. Although several of the present 330-kv lines use a single 1.75-inch diameter conductor, it is anticipated higher voltage lines may be built with bundled conductors."
"The voltage regulation problem in power systems has become more acute in the past few years, chiefly because of the critical constant-voltage requirements of modern automatic machines. Methods for alleviating some of these difficulties are outlined."
"The word horsepower when applied to an air-conditioner compressor motor has only a vague connection with the ability of the unit to cool. Thus, all restraints on this type of hermetic motor design in the form of codes and rules, as used in a standard open-motor design, are unsuitable and should be abandoned; instead, the electrical performance of each type of unit should be accurately determined."
"WIND-INDUCED VIBRATION of overhead conductors is inhibited by the use of Stockbridge dampers. Energy relationships are indicated by Fig. 1. Vibration amplitudes tend to increase until the rate of energy input from wind, Curve A, is balanced by the rate of mechanical-energy dissipation in vibration, Curve B. The function of dampers is to increase the total rate of dissipation, Curve C, so that equilibrium occurs at insignificant amplitudes. The best possible damping occurs when a damper can absorb vibration energy from the conductor at the maximum possible rate."
"Information in the binary or decimal form on magnetic tape or cards is receiving much attention at present by electrical designers for programming of machine tools. Consideration is given in this article to fundamental functions and applications."
"Automatic and machine-control gauging, whereby badly machined parts can be either prevented or separated from the good pieces, contributes towards greater efficiency in the manufacturing process. Methods of gauging, as well as the recent utilization in production for maximum benefit, are discussed."
"THE RESULTS OF A STUDY, made in the light of present-day costs, on the economics of high-voltage transmission are presented. The study considers technical and economic aspects of two transmission patterns: straightaway transmission for distances of 25 to 300 miles, and extra-high-voltage transmission superimposed on an existing 115- or 230-kv system. The costs used in the study are averaged values at 195455 price levels and include energy and capacity charges for losses, as well as investment charges for terminal equipment and line construction."
"Material failure is a primary cause in 25 per cent of aircraft accidents 3 per cent of which are caused by breakdown in the electric systems. More attention should be given to electric design detail, following careful analysis of past errors, as well as to establishing a more realistic environmental testing policy."
"CONTACTOR SERVOMECHANISMS, studied for a number of years, are widely used because the contactor contained in the system provides a large gain."
"The adjustable-voltage drives for hoist motion of cranes use d-c motors with speed and direction of rotation determined by the generators supplying the power. The drives, only recently made practical for industry from a cost standpoint, have many advantages that should be considered by designers."
"A conversion method has been developed to balance a 3-phase power system automatically, if a large single-phase load alters the system. Past control systems were useful for only a particular load condition, while this method is effective regardless of the magnitude, power factor, or change in the load."
"VARIOUS TYPES OF PROTECTIVE DEVICES, such as relays, fuses, and circuit breakers, are used to provide a-c-motor fault protection. The effectiveness of these devices in protecting motors is, in most cases, dependent on the magnitude of the fault current. A general answer to this question of the magnitude of fault currents under different conditions of a-c system grounding, system capacity, fault location, and motor connections is presented. Results are approximate, but the results provide a reasonable basis for the comparison of the effectiveness of different methods of short-circuit protection."
"LIVE TREES are frequently struck by lightning with varying degrees of injury, from bark wounds that may heal so well in a few years that unnoticeable scars are left  to splitting and shattering of the trunk or extreme blasting of the bark, that results in early death of the tree. It is well known in high-voltage laboratories that extremely dry wood is none too reliable for use in surge voltage demonstrations where, as a stunt, one wishes to split wood by means of a high-voltage surge discharge. It was thought that the electrical resistance characteristics of a live tree might play an important role relative to lightning damage. Because values of the electrical resistivity of green (live) wood were not found in a library, it seemed that it might be worthwhile to make measurements on trees adjacent to and similar to a tulip tree, about 100 feet tall, that had been almost mortally wounded by a lightning stroke."
"In the design of an industrial power distribution system, first costs are of great importance. Many of the factors which have the most significant effects upon these first costs are discussed."
"WET-PROCESS PORCELAIN as used for high voltage insulators is well known for its ability to resist atmospheric corrosion. Insulator assemblies and associated fittings usually include hot-dip galvanized ferrous metal parts which have satisfactory corrosion resistance for normal service requirements. In industrial and certain coastal areas, however, the contaminated atmosphere increases the corrosive attack and shortens hardware life."
"The general applications and the operation of magnetic-drum digital computers are described by use of a detailed explanation of the LGP-30, a typical example of this class of computers."
"THE NORTH EASTERN DISTRICT of the Institute held its three-day meeting at the Sheraton Hotel in Rochester, N. Y., May 24, 1956. Due perhaps to the inclement weather, the attendance was only about 350 members and guests, but the enthusiasm with which papers were received and discussed was in inverse ratio to the numbers attending."
"AHIGHLY SUCCESSFUL symposium on electronic components was held in Washington, D. C, May 13. Symposium headquarters was at the Roger Smith Hotel with technical sessions presented at the Department of the Interior Auditorium. Sponsors included the AIEE, Institute of Radio Engineers, Radio-Electronic-Television Manufacturers Association, and West Coast Electronic Manufacturers Association, with participation by the agencies of the Department of Defense and the National Bureau of Standards."
"Because of the increased importance of instrumentation in electrical engineering, a sixth major technical division of the AIEE, to be known as the Instrumentation Division, has been approved by the Board of Directors, N. S. Hibshman, Institute secretary, has announced."
"Conference papers listed below have been accepted for AIEE Transactions and are now open for written discussion until July 27. Duplicate double-spaced typewritten copies of each discussion should be sent to Edward C. Day, Assistant Secret a ry for Technical Papers, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y., on or before July 27."
"Sir George Nelson, president of The Institution of Electrical Engineers (IEE), and W.K. Brasher, secretary, were t h e guests of honor at a luncheon given by the AIEE at the Engineers' Club, May 21. Twenty-five prominent engineers including the presidents and the secretaries of other societies and R.H. Barclay, honorary secretary of the IEE, attended the luncheon. Sir George and Mr. Brasher stopped off to visit Institute headquarters and conduct business while enroute to an annual meeting of the Engineering Institute of Canada. Following the luncheon they attended a meeting of the secretaries of the several societies."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Editor's Note: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, Mew York 18, N. T."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of May 17, 1956, recommended the following applicants for transfer. Any objections to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"THE SECOND ANNUAL Joint AIEE-IRE Student Activities Day for the metropolitan New York area was held at Rutgers University April 27. The affair was sponsored by AIEE District 3, IRE Region 2, and New York Sections of AIEE and IRE."
"The Student Prize Paper Contest of the North West District was held at the University of Washington in Seattle, Wash., May 12, under the joint auspices of the Seattle Section and the University of Washington Student Branch. First prize winner was A. N. Blankenship of the University of Washington for his paper Three-Phase Slave Motor."
"At the Annual Students Night sponsored by the Providence Section of AIEE, C. E. Nielsen, Jr., of Brown University was awarded first prize for his paper entitled Kirchhoff's Laws and the Concept of Voltage as Applied to A-C Circuits, and A. L. Weiser of the University of Rhode Island was awarded second prize for his paper on Magnetic Core Memory Device."
"THREE MAJOR DEVELOPMENTS in the field of military electronics were demonstrated by the Radio Corporation of America (RCA) during recent dedication ceremonies marking an enlargement of the RCA Moorestown Engineering Plant for missile and surface radar electronic systems."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A GIANT computing machine that could save up to two years in the costly development of advanced-design jet engines has been built for the Air Research and Development Command (ARDC) by the General Electric (GE) Company, Schenectady, N. Y."
"WITHIN THE TERMS of the United Kingdom-United States of America Agreement for Go-operation in Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy, Sir Edwin Plowden, chairman of the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority, was the guest of Lewis Strauss, chairman of the United States Atomic Energy Commission, on a visit t o t h e Argonne National Laboratory near Chicago, Ill."
"The bloodiest year on our nation's highways was 1955, w i th a near record total of 37,800 deaths. As if this were not grim enough, our young drivers figured prominently in compiling these statistics. More than 27 per cent of all drivers involved in fatal accidents last year were under 25 years of age, a greater number than ever before."
"The U. S. Navy and Department of Defense have announced that supersonic air-to-air guided missiles now guard fleet units and the U. S. coasts. The missiles, designated SPARROW I, have reached a combat-ready status which has been confirmed by Admiral Arleigh Burke, chief of Naval Operations."
"Industry's first power-rotated jib crane with lifting capacities up to 15 tons has just been introduced after several years of development and extensive on-the-job testing by R.G. LeTourneau, Inc., Longview, Tex."
"A cockpit installed in the main cabin of a T-29 airliner enables a back-seat pilot and 10 engineers to check new electronic control systems. Hughes Aircraft Company is flying a plane within a plane, readying new weapons of defense for operation months ahead of time, it was revealed at a press demonstration at the company's plant in Culver City, Calif."
"The Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) has approved in principle, as a basis for negotiations, the nuclear power plant proposals of the Rural Co-operative Power Association of Elk River, Minn., and t h e Wolverine Electric Co-operative of Big Rapids, Mich. These were among seven proposals made in response to t h e second invitation of t h e A EC under its Power Demonstration Reactor Program, calling for development, design, construction, and operation of plants with capacities within the 5,000 to 40,000 kw range."
"A unique feature of the Monoflo conveyor has been put to work at the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory where the Chemistry and Metallurgy Research Division has employed Monoflo inside dry boxes. These boxes are shielded chambers which safely enclose radioactive materials without danger of contaminating the worker while he is handling these materials."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"As our 195556 Institute President is about to take leave of office, he presents to the membership many thought-provoking ideas for consideration regarding the future of our profession."
"Speaking for all 11 member organizations of the Engineers Joint Council (EJC), the Chairman of the Engineering Manpower Commission of EJC discusses the engineering manpower shortage, especially as it affects the Armed Forces."
"A review is presented of the progress and problems in the field of telephone transmission. The job of improving transmission while keeping costs low is divided into three main elements: instrumentalities, engineering, and maintenance."
"A discussion of rapid transit in the metropolitan area and the planning undertaken by the Metropolitan Rapid Transit Commission is presented. With an estimated increase in population of this area from 15 to 19 million by 1975, serious study must be given to future needs."
"IN HIS ENDEAVOR to meet the ever-present demand for improvements in electrical equipment the engineer usually explores new ideas and may overlook the advantages of old ones in the light of interim developments. Such has been the case for the triple-diametric circuit which offered little if any advantage 30 years ago with multianode rectifiers. When used with modern single-anode rectifiers, however, it offers over-all advantages for some applications when compared with the conventional double-wye circuit."
"THE MEASUREMENT AND CONTROL of temperature is basic to all industrial processes. Modern automatic machinery exploits the economy achieved by a continuous flow of product, as such machinery requires instrumentation capable of measuring the temperature of moving material in process for efficiency. Total radiation pyrometers are useful for this purpose, and there is a continuing demand from industry for more sensitive, accurate, and versatile instruments."
"The rapid growth of the electronics industry is predicted to be doubled in size during the next decade. In answer to questions regarding evaluations of our national and West Coast television expansion, the author presents his opinions, as well as facts and charts, on growth in this field during the next ten years."
"Dynamax, a new high-permeability magnetic material, developed in the form of thin tape for toroidal cores, has dynamic characteristics superior to those of any rectangular hysteresis-loop materials commercially available today. Most promising applications are in magnetic amplifiers and, possibly, in special transformers."
"AUTOMATION recently has been extended to teletypewriter services used for exchanging messages among stations connected by half-duplex (nonsimultaneous 2-way) multistation telegraph lines. The automatic dispatch system to be described virtually eliminates all station-attendant operations except one. Typing of the message is required to perforate a tape with the teletypewriter codes corresponding to the characters in the message. The attendant then inserts the tape in an automatic transmitter and the dispatch system does the rest."
"Dr. Hanna of the Westinghouse Laboratories, Pittsburgh, Pa., has been awarded the 1955 Lamme Medal  for his fundamental calculations and developments in the field of electrodynamics and particularly for his achievements in the design of generator voltage regulators, automatic rolling mill controls, and tank gun stabilizers."
"FAR TOO OFTEN, in the hustle and bustle of modern life, we fail to consider what lies behind the development of the many things we have, the things which collectively have provided this country with the highest standard of living in the world. As a result, the contributions made by engineers which result in a better life for all of us frequently receive no recognition. For this reason, among many others, I count it a privilege as well as an honor to be able to tell you something about the many contributions that have been made by one of these engineers which have benefited the lives of all of us here today."
"I AM DEEPLY GRATEFUL for the high honor accorded me by the Institute in the award of the Benjamin Garver Lamme Medal. My colleagues also share in this because without their ideas and effort much of the progress for which the citation was made would not have come to fruition."
"HYDRAULIC SERVOMECHANISMS with flow-control valves are applied in many systems that require high performance, light weight, and power output of several horsepower. Unfortunately, hydraulic servos are not widely understood, for there is very little relevant textbook material and only a few technical papers.1 This investigation extends the now existing work by presenting an analysis of a complete hydraulic servo, together with experimental results that verify the analysis. The servo (Fig. 1) has an amplifier, a single-stage flow-control valve, a single-vane rotary motor with inertia load, and a position feedback."
"RECENT INCREASES in the size of d-c systems fed by mercury-arc rectifiers have created a need for a faster, higher capacity cathode circuit breaker. These high power d-c systems have many rectifiers in parallel and are subject to a fault condition peculiar to mercury-arc rectifiers, known as arc back. If there were no protective device in the circuit, these arc-back currents would ultimately reach a size much beyond that which might be tolerated. Mechanical stresses and overheating would damage the equipment."
"Performance of a gas-blast switch on a 230-kv system of the U. S. Bureau of Reclamation near Hoover Dam is reported in this article. This switch has proved to be an economical means of interrupting transformer magnetizing current, parallel load current, and line charging current."
"CALCULATIONS OF FAULT CURRENTS for points along a transmission line are usually prepared for use in fault locating by the current-ratio method or by problems of inductive interference. The ground fault is the type of fault generally required for these purposes."
"The versatility of germanium as a rectifying material is demonstrated by its use in such widely varying applications as tiny electronic transistors and 40,000-ampere power supplies. Its industrial uses, particularly in the chemical and metal-working industries, are outlined."
"THE THIRD ELECTRICAL CONFERENCE of the Petroleum Industry will be held in Kansas City, Mo., September 1719, 1956. Headquarters for the conference, which is sponsored by the AIEE, will be the Muehlebach Hotel."
"THE 1956 National Telemetering Conference will be held August 2021 at the Biltmore Hotel, Los Angeles, Calif. The conference, sponsored by the AIEE, the Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE), the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences (IAS), and the Instrument Society of America (ISA), will offer a program of technical sessions on systems, data processing, components and equipment, and recorders."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The fifth annual Industrial Electronics Symposium will be held at the Hotel Manger, Cleveland, Ohio, September 2425, 1956. Beside the AIEE, the Symposium will be sponsored by the Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE) and the IRE Professional Groups on Industrial Electronics and Production Techniques."
"Conference papers listed below have been accepted for AIEE Transactions and are now open for written discussion until August 29. Duplicate double-spaced typewritten copies of each discussion should be sent to Edward C. Day, Assistant Secret a ry for Technical Papers, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y., on or before August 29."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of June 21, 1956, recommended the following applicants for transfer. Any objections to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers presents to the membership its 72nd Annual Report, covering the fiscal year ending April 30, 1956. It contains a brief summary of the principal activities of the Institute during the year, a general balance sheet showing the financial condition of the Institute at the close of the fiscal year, a statement of cash receipts and disbursements, and a schedule of securities owned. Much additional information regarding the activities appeared in various issues of Electrical Engineering."
"STUDENT REPRESENTATIVES of 18 schools in the Midwest presented papers at the District 5 conference and student paper competition which was held May 1112 at Purdue University, Lafayette, Ind."
"The secretary of the Fenn College chapter of AIEE, Margaret R. Stevens, is the first Cleveland, Ohio, coed to win the Women's Badge of the honorary engineering fraternity, Tau Beta Pi."
"SCIENTISTS of the Westinghouse Research Laboratories in Pittsburgh, Pa., unveiled a new super-alloy, one application of which is for high-temperature steam turbine blades. The alloy is the first practical result of a new research technique for predesigning metals of the future."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"AS A TRIBUTE to Benjamin Franklin whose 250th birthday is being recognized this year by organizations throughout the world, a demonstration of combined 18th and 20th century electrical instruments was arranged in co-operation with the Franklin Institute."
"Details of a unique new autopilot now being used as part of a drone control system by the United States Army Signal Corps were announced by Temco Aircraft Corporation."
"Formal dedication and opening ceremonies were held recently for the first mill in India to manufacture newsprint. The dedication was attended by many Indian dignitaries, including Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, who was on hand for the opening of this modern, integrated newsprint mill."
"A library devoted exclusively to solar energy is now in operation at headquarters of the Association for Applied Solar Energy, 204 Heard Building, Phoenix, Ariz."
"During the past year a number of new major construction projects have contributed substantially to the further development of the Canadian system of airports and airways. Better facilities are available for the traveling public a n d for the airlines serving Canada."
"The Radio-Electronics-Television Manufacturers Association (RETMA) announced today the formulation of a realistic and comprehensive definition of the term Automation in response to an urgent need expressed by the electronics industry which is deeply involved in the new manufacturing process but is lacking in a common, unified definition."
"Details of a new type of target analysis or gun camera, which emulates the iris of the human eye in that it automatically compensates for changes in light conditions, have been revealed by the United States Air Force (USAF)."
"During the annual meeting of National Committee for Utilities Radio (NCUR) April 2325 in Omaha, Neb., 94 representatives of regional and trade associations heard reports of continuing requests for frequency recommendations received by frequency co-ordinators in nearly all regions. Co-channel arrangements often have been the only answer to such requests in the 3050 mc and 152162 mc bands. Little use has been made of the higher bands for mobile systems partly because assignment in them has been on a developmental basis shared with other services."
"A positive means of measuring the depth of anesthesia during surgery has been announced recently by the Edin Company with the introduction of the Anesthograph."
"Classified outlines of subject matter in specialized fields of knowledge currently are being collected by the Special Libraries Association. Such classifications are of tremendous help, not only to librarians but also to researchers, scientists, and others concerned with organizing the literature in their particular fields of interest."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Possibilities for use of electronics in all fields in the future are predicted as being tremendous. Television has been an important factor in conditioning people so the attitude has changed from somewhat reluctant acceptance to eager welcoming of new electronic developments."
"The future energy needs of the United States and the probable means of meeting these vital needs are discussed. It is necessary to find economical ways to supplement coal, oil, and natural gas deposits as they reach limits of expansion."
"On occasion of his being honored with a degree in Humane Letters, the author in a commencement address states that the well-integrated man, whatever his speciality or basic education, represents the best prospect for personal happiness, as well as for individual contribution to the common good."
"The operation of any electrical laboratory entails certain hazards. Methods used for eliminating many of these hazards at the new Underwriters' Laboratories testing station are outlined."
"Most engineers associate the name Tesla with the Tesla coil, so popular for high-voltage demonstrations in the school laboratory. Few, however, know this strange, lonely genius as the inventive giant who not only laid much of the groundwork for radio, induction heating, and gaseous-tube lighting, but also invented the induction motor and the whole polyphase system which is the foundation of the modern electric power industry."
"A POWER TRANSFORMER can be loaded for minimum cost per kva. Costs to be considered are the capital costs of interest, insurance, and taxes, as well as the operating costs of depreciation, losses, and maintenance. All these costs can be related to loading if an adjusted transformer rating is used. This adjusted rating is the peak load to be allowed before additional capacity is provided."
"Population growth and increased private motor vehicle ownership have created considerable congestion in most American cities. Efforts made to help relieve this situation in Seattle by adapting the existing trolley system to meet the new traffic problems are described."
"TRANSIENT, as well as the steady-state characteristics, of d-c motors and generators must be known if the rolling-mill system performance is to be thoroughly analyzed and the operating performance predicted. This digest presents the transient characteristics of the d-c machine. The constants are divided into three phases of d-c machine performance: (1) direct- or main-axis field, (2) the quadrature axis or interpolar axis, and (3) the mechanical or speed axis."
"A brief history of the development of telephone switching in the United States, starting from 21 to the present-day 60 million telephone subscribers, is presented. Application of traffic probability theory was first applied in the telephone traffic engineering field, as described."
"DETERMINATION of the transient-stability limit of a power system requires expressing the rotor angle of each machine or group of machines in the system as a function of time following the initial disturbance. This problem has been solved using miniature dynamic systems, digital computers, and differential analyzers. The latter two methods require a-c network analyzer measurements of the transfer impedances and prefault conditions. Other methods use special-purpose synchronous machine analogues coupled to the a-c network analyzer to represent power system behavior on an expanded time scale. Transient swings following a disturbance are then automatically determined. Such equipment is expensive and does not integrate readily into existing analyzer installations. At present most multimachine transient-stability problems are solved on a-c network analyzers using the step-by-step method."
"An average saving of $50 per mile has been realized through the use of mechanized tree-trimming equipment by power companies. A system for utilizing this equipment most effectively, as planned by one utility, is presented."
"Interest in a new approach to the generator capacity reserve problem stemmed from an apprehension that past methods were becoming inadequate because of the growth and increasing complexity of generating and transmission components. It is apparent that the probability theory fulfills the requirements, for both the current and the future/planned operations."
"THE POWER-HANDLING ABILITY of a transistor can be increased by about a factor of 10, relative to class A operation, by operating in the switching mode.1 Much greater stability also is achieved, inasmuch as a switching transistor operates only at cutoff or saturation and minor variations in the linear transistor parameters do not affect operation. These features have been exploited in a number of recently developed devices which use the transistor as a switch. The advantages of the switched mode of operation are similarly attractive in constructing a linear amplifier. The average output of a switching transistor can be linearly controlled if ratio of on time to off time is varied by a pulse-width modulation technique. A series of circuits have been developed which use the variable-width output pulse of an audio-frequency magnetic amplifier as a means of linearly controlling the output of switching transistors."
"OPERATING ECONOMIES AND EFFICIENCIES are realized from the concentration of power system control and indication in a single central location. The average steel works power system is ideal for the application of centralized control equipment because of the concentration of substations in a relatively small area. Most existing centralized control of steel works power systems has been provided by supervisory control."
"Computer techniques are explained by means of several examples of the types of problems which analogue and digital computers are being called upon to solve. The most important computer characteristics are briefly described."
"METHODS for designing simple saturable-reactor magnetic amplifiers and predicting their performance on the basis of observed phenomena have been known for some time. However, the literature in the field is still lacking a complete analysis of saturable-reactor circuitry on the oasis of the mechanics of operation. This analysis utilizes the volt-second approach developed by R. A. Ramey1 to analyze completely the simple series saturable-reactor circuit in both its transient and steady states."
"For power-regulation applications where size, life, efficiency, and adaptability are to be considered, semiconductors are replacing the electron tubes, magnetic amplifiers, and gas-tube diodes. This article presents several methods of using these new semiconductor equivalents."
"It is with sincere regret that I must extend my personal greetings to most of you in this manner, but they are just as genuine as though they were transmitted with a firm and friendly handshake. Then, too, I want to express my deep appreciation for the honor that you have conferred upon me and for the confidence that you have expressed in my ability to assist in guiding the Institute through the next administrative year."
"THE THEME of this year's AIEE Fall General Meeting will be the Nikola Tesla Centennial. At the meeting, which will be held October 15, at the Morrison Hotel, Chicago, 111., Dr. S. G. Hibben will present a demonstration-type lecture commemorating Dr. Tesla's outstanding contributions to the electrical industry and to the world. He will speak chiefly on the aspects of Tesla's work that relate to highfrequency studies connected with radiation or luminous phenomena."
"Lists various society-based activities and events that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE 65 TECHNICAL SESSIONS of the AIEE Summer and Pacific General Meeting, June 2529, San Francisco, Calif., covered a wide variety of subjects and was of great interest to the members and guests. That the papers were well received and timely was evidenced by the many discussions that followed each presentation. Several of the speakers increased the value of their papers with demonstrations and visual aids. All are to be congratulated on the efforts which went into the preparation and presentation of the papers."
"THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS of the AIEE held a two-day meeting in San Francisco, Calif., during the Summer and Pacific General Meeting of 1956. The unusually heavy agenda required the full days of June 2829. Of the 35 officers eligible to attend the June Board Meeting, 33 were present. Since this Board Meeting follows the Annual Meeting of the Institute, the newly elected Vice-Presidents and Directors traditionally are included. It is also normally the last Board Meeting of the administrative year."
"THE FOLLOWING is the report of the Special Task Committee of the Founder Societies and AIChE concerning a location for the Engineering Societies Center which was presented to the AIEE Board of Directors at their meeting held June 2829, during the Summer and Pacific General Meeting."
"The following are rules for the award of prizes for AIEE Papers which were approved by the Board of Directors on June 28, 1956, superseding those previously in effect."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The General Committees will take on new and greater responsibilities in the operation of the Institute. Grouped into five Departments, the traditional 25 standing committees will be represented at the Directors' meetings and will act, under departmental co-ordination, to implement Institute policy. The Board of Directors, long overburdened, will thus free itself for concentration on establishing and defining policy."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Editofs Note: This department has been create for the convenience of the various AIEE technica committees and will include brief news report of committee activities. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should b forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Head quarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 78, N T."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of July 19, 1956, recommended the following applications for transfer. Any objections to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute. A statementof valid reasons for such objections must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"A PROGRAM of special activities for students was arranged by the Committee on Students in connection with the AIEE Summer and Pacific General Meeting, San Francisco, Calif., June 2529, 1956."
"Lists various society-based activities and events that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"AN INCH-SQUARE honeycomb developed by a General Electric scientist will store up nearly a million bits of information. Smaller electronic computers with bigger memories are among the anticipated applications."
"NEW VERSATILITY for the magnetron, famous for its use in wartime radar, has been achieved by two scientists at the General Electric Research Laboratory. Discovery of magnetron voltage-tuning has extended the use of magnetrons in new types of microwave relay systems, counter measures, altimeters for aircraft, electronic test equipment, and telemetering operations in which several far-flung metering stations are monitored from a central office."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE LARGEST and most powerful bulldozer-type machine in the world, which was designed for moving any crashed bombers from military airport runways, has been delivered to the United States Air Force by R. G. LeTourneau, Inc., of Longview, Tex., recently."
"Industry took the first big step toward insuring nationally co-ordinated standards in the field of nuclear energy."
"Construction is nearing completion on Homogeneous Reactor Experiment No. 2, an experimental nuclear reactor in the United States Atomic Energy Commission's (AEC) program to achieve economical atomic power. The reactor is located at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee. A homogeneous reactor differs from others in that its uranium fuel is in liquid solution rather than in solid form."
"The national shortage of engineers is commonly attributed to the disinterest of high school students who shun the rigors of higher technical education. Now another cause for the shortage has been found at the other end of the ladder."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statemenls in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The importance of providing sound management training programs in industry cannot be overemphasized. Efforts made in this field by The Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company are outlined."
"TO PROVIDE EXCITATION for a magnetic amplifier operating at a 400-cps signal carrier frequency, a single-phase generator of at least 10 times carrier frequency was needed. This digest describes the design and test performance of a machine rated at 240 volts, 6 amperes at unity power factor, 4,600 cps, 158 poles, 3,500 rpm."
"A recent Engineers Joint Council (EJC) survey of 414 organizations, exploring 140,000 engineers, provides information for indicating trends in the employment of engineering graduates. An evaluation of the results shows there is very little promise of relief in the shortage of engineers during the next 4 years."
"A means of transmitting still television pictures over existing low-cost telephone facilities is described. This slow-scan system, utilizing Vidicon camera pickup tubes, will help make the advantages of closed-circuit television available to increasing numbers of users."
"This new all-electric controller for subway cars, completely replacing pneumatic-type contactor and reverser, has many advantages including decreased maintenance, standardization of components, simplification, and reduced weight. Major problems encountered in building and operating sample equipment in 100 New York City Transit System subway cars, are discussed."
"SINCE ABOUT 1950 there has been a trend toward the the use of nonlinear circuit elements in servomechanisms. Previously such elements were avoided because of difficulties in handling nonlinear differential equations. With improved mathematical techniques and widespread use of digital and analogue computers, more use is being made of nonlinear compensating devices. Nonlinear compensators can usually be made to show significant improvement in performance over their linear counterparts but often at the cost of increased complexity and expense."
"AT PRESENT the methods used to detect failures during factory tests of electrical apparatus are of sufficient sensitivity to detect all real faults that occur. However, these methods sometimes do not supply sufficient information for laboratory research and developmental tests of coil stacks and other types of insulation structures. In addition, the present methods have certain other disadvantages such as insensitivity to small corona discharges, sensitivity to high-capacitance charging currents and external circuit sparking, and no positive indication of the discharge location."
"Although the Sierra Nevada Mountains have formed an historic barrier to travel, they are of great benefit to water and power developments in California. Three hydroelectric plants on the North Fork of the Kings River, scheduled for completion in 195961, add 276,000-kw to the Pacific Gas and Electric Company system."
"PHASOR METHODS can be used in the analysis of the steady state of any nonlinear electrical network whose steady-state voltages and currents can be adequately represented by the sum of a limited number of simple sinusoidal functions of time. The method outlined herein can be applied by means of elementary mathematics and, at the same time, provides a grasp of the influence of the individual nonlinear elements on the steady state of the network. The method is explained in terms of impedance concepts but can be applied with equal facility using admittance concepts."
"The basic electrochemical principles involved in the corrosion of underground metallic structures are explained. Methods of preventing this costly corrosion process are outlined."
"THE ACCURACY of the Fourier series coefficients when determined by the equation1 $B_{n} = {2 \\over m} displaystyle\\sum^{m}_{1} \\left[y_{k} \\sin \\ n \\left(k - {1 \\over 2}\\right){2 \\pi \\over m} \\right]$ should receive some consideration."
"Investigations in the vast 30,000- to 300,000-mc frequency range is proving that it can accommodate many of the communications services, especially where there is need for high-gain, high-directional antennas, and large bandwidth."
"THE 2ND NATIONAL CONFERENCE on Magnetism and Magnetic Materials will be held at the spacious Hotel Statler in Boston, Mass., October 1618, 1956. This conference is sponsored by AIEE with the co-operation of the following societies: American Physical Society (APS), American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical and Petroleum Engineers (AIME), and the Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE)."
"THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS of the AIEE met in New York, N. Y., on August 17, 1956. The meeting was t h e first t o be attended by t h e new department chairman: administrative, admission and advancement, professional development and recognition, publications, and technical operations, as shown in the Organization Chart, Electrical Engineering, September 1956, pages 8589, and four of the five chairmen were present. All 27 members of the Board of Directors were present thus having 100 percent attendance. The attendance record of the Board members is remarkable and usually not more than one or two are absent. The vicepresidents held a meeting on the day preceding the Board of Directors' meeting, August 16."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE NINTH ANNUAL Conference on Electrical Techniques in Medicine and Biology, sponsored jointly by the AIEE, the Institute of Radio Engineers, and the Instrument Society of America, will be held in New York, N. Y., November 79, 1956, at the Hotel McAlpin."
"THE 1956 AIEE Conference on Machine Tools will be held in Cincinnati, Ohio, October 2224, at the Hotel Sheraton-Gibson. The conference is sponsored by the Machine Tool Subcommittee of AIEE."
"The second AIEE Farm Electrification Conference, sponsored by the Farm Electrification Subcommittee of the Domestic and Commercial Applications Committee, will be held in Memphis, Tenn., October 2931, 1956, at the Hotel Peabody."
"Conference papers listed below have been accepted for AIEE Transactions and are now open for written discussion until October 26. Duplicate double-spaced typewritten copies of each discussion should be sent to Edward C. Day, Assistant Secretary for Technical Papers, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y., on or before October 26."
"Editor's Note:, This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 78, N. T."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"THE STUDENT BRANCH of the AIEE at the University of Pittsburgh was organized on October 6, 1915, under the leadership of Prof. L. H. Harris. The first meeting was attended by 16 students who elected G. R. Patterson as chairman; R. C. Zindel as vice-chairman; and W. K. Benz as secretary."
"MY CORDIAL AND MOST SINCERE greetings to each of you. I am sure you realize that our colleges and universities are doing their best to give the undergraduate student the most comprehensive basic training possible within the traditional 4-year aca demie period This is with the hope that the graduate may enter his chosen profession sufficiently well equipped to accept employment of a technical nature or to proceed successfully with a graduate study program. After graduation, one usually finds his early assignments to be associated with some kind of on-the-job training of a formal nature, or otherwise. In any case, he launches upon his professional career and his employer rightfully expects him to make progress."
"TODAY, one of the most promising careers open to an electrical engineering graduate is in the electrical manufacturing industry."
"IN THE LAST DECADE, important changes have taken place in the education of electrical engineers. These in part, have come in response to new needs. A factor, however, has been an underlying dissatisfaction with the inadequacies of the typical training of the prewar electrical engineer."
"DURING A MEETING of the Theory Subcommittee of the AIEE Magnetic Amplifier Committee, the discussion dwelt on the problem of acquainting college students with magnetic amplifiers. It was felt that students who wish to deepen their knowledge in this field find it often difficult to do so, because of an apparent lack of suitable thesis projects. To remove this difficulty and, thereby, stimulate interest in studying this subject, the subcommittee members suggested a number of thesis projects which are believed to have: 1. High-academic content. 2. Practical importance. 3. Good probability for finding solution."
"MAGNETIC AMPLIFIERS are an example of a whole group of devices having common characteristics and being amenable to a common method of analysis. The common characteristics of this class of equipment are that they control and modulate the flow of power and energy and are mechanically static. This article describes a method of analyzing such static power modulators by applying the techniques to magnetic amplifiers in particular."
"THE WORD RADAR, as most engineering students already know, came into the language only a few years ago. During the early days of World War II, it was actually classified a military secret for the good reason that it explained in some detail the operation of this strategically important object-sensing device. The letters stand for radio direction and ranging which, of course, is the function of the instrument. In addition, the word is a palindrome which means it is spelled the same way forwards and backwards. In this way, it describes radar's principle of operation: a high-frequency radio wave bounced directionally off a target yields the angle and distance information necessary to locate an object completely in space."
"INCREASING EMPHASIS on the reliability of the components used in electronic equipment has resulted in the increased use of solid-state devices such as transistors and nonlinear magnetic cores. These devices have been used to replace limited life items, such as hydrogen thyratrons, electron tubes, etc. The pulse generator presented here is an example of the application of nonlinear magnetic cores to improve the reliability of a radar system modulator."
"A $38,000 grant from the Carnegie Corporation of New York to the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE) will make possible a comprehensive study of technical institute education in the United States."
"The Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) recently announced that it has invited proposals from colleges and universities to establish and conduct courses in nuclear reactor technology and supporting subjects as part of a program to double the number of nuclear reactor engineers trained each year at the Oak Ridge School of Reactor Technology (ORSORT) at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL), Oak Ridge, Tenn."
"LONG-RANGE POTENTIALS of solar energy were demonstrated recently by two separate firms with the unveiling of several devices using power converted from the sun's rays."
"Private industrial research began recently with the first 50-kw nuclear reactor built intended solely for peacetime use by industry."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A new technique for mass production of high-speed and ultrahigh-frequency transistors, recently announced by Philco Corporation, represents a major advance in semiconductor technology. Two types of transistors, a Micro-Alloy Transistor (MAT) and a Surface-Barrier Diffused Transistor (SBDT), the direct result of this new technique, are now in engineering development."
"Successful conclusion of a n unprecedented power demonstration by an atomic ship propulsion reactor was announced by the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) recently."
"The Civil Aeronautics Administration (CAA) will soon be gathering air traffic information electronically at Indianapolis, Ind., from widely separated radar stations in Indiana and Ohio."
"An electronic eye weighing less than anounce has been developed as an aid to blind operators of private telephone switchboards. A tiny, light-sensitive phototransistor which fits on the tip of an index finger is the only piece of equipment which must be worn by the blind operator in addition to the standard operator's headset."
"A completely new concept in electronic receiving tube manufacture was revealed recently when Eitel-McCullough, Inc., of San Bruno, Calif., released information on a new Eimac stacked ceramic receiving tube. The company, one of the largest manufacturers of power transmitting tubes, developed the new tubes under an Air Force contract to provide a small electronic tube which would withstand environments found in airborne and missile applications."
"A special-purpose computer that gives the geographical fallout pattern of radioactivity resulting from a nuclear explosion has been developed by the National Bureau of Standards. Given the necessary weather data together with certain information about the bomb, this analogue computer will assist in predicting what the distribution and intensity of radioactivity will be on the ground after the bomb has been detonated. Problem solution is displayed on a cathode ray tube, over which amap on a transparent backing can be laid. Radioactive intensity at any ground point up to 500 miles from the explosion can then be measured by the brightness at the corresponding point on the tube screen. The computer was developed for the United States Weather Bureau and the Atomic Energy Commission by H. R. Skramstad and J. H. Wright of the Bureau's analogue computers laboratory."
"An electronic system, which automatically plots on a central control scope, radar images plus identification and pertinent data transmitted by telephone from distant radar stations, has been developed for the Bureau of Ships, United States Navy, by Skiatron Electronics and Television Corporation."
"The day when sonic pictures of man's insides might be used to diagnose and treat illness has been brought a little closer to possibility by research in the use of high frequency sound waves for pictur e formation by a research team at the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The features and operation of a new frequency code remote control system are described. Among its advantages are relative simplicity and high information capacity, with no need for synchronization between transmitting and receiving stations."
"IN AUTOMATIC DATA-PROCESSING MACHINES many forms of electromagnetic devices are used. Since the current trend is to higher speed machines, the empirical method of electromagnetic design is no longer adequate."
"According to the Soviet paper, Pravda, Electrification is the basic problem in the economic development of the country. The attainment of the 1960 production levels, in accordance with the sixth Five-Year Plan, depends upon the planned expansion of the electric power industry, as described."
"THE PURPOSE of this article is to discuss the output signals from switched- and unswitched-ferroelectric storage capacitors, to treat the storage element as a circuit element by the introduction of an equivalent circuit, and to present methods by which the inherent signal-to-noise ratio can be improved."
"THE CHROMATICITY DIAGRAM is a basic tool used extensively and universally in the science of colorimetry, the study of color. In order to provide a clear mental picture of the significance of every aspect of this important diagram, its derivation is accomplished graphically by means of a logical sequence of graphical constructions and projections. Such a visual concept is extremely difficult to obtain from the complicated mathematical derivation ordinarily used."
"At reduced insulation levels in high-voltage systems, consideration must be given now to switching surges and 60-cps stresses, as well as the former problems of impulse and lightning. A criteria of performance for future high-voltage system insulation design and protection is necessary, as discussed in this article."
"Language translations now can be implemented by general-purpose digital computers or, more economically, by using special-purpose machines. Either word-by-word or more accurate sentence-by-sentence translations are considerably faster and cheaper than man-made ones."
"The American Iron and Steel Institute has sponsored an investigation of the current-carrying capacities of wires when installed in multiple in steel raceways with various percentages of raceway fill, in order to supplement the information available on this subject. The results are being presented to the National Electric Code Committee for study, with a view toward possible modification of the Code."
"THE TRANSMISSION of digital information in connection with the operation of business machines is engaging increasing attention of communication engineers. High-speed electronic computer-type machines are being called upon more and more to operate on information fed from distant points. This new form of record communication results in encoded information which is not at all intelligible in the accustomed sense. It is, nevertheless, telegraphy in every sense of the word."
"A new d-c test instrument, which makes it possible to extend d-c testing to traction electrical equipment, is described and procedures for applying this test to wound equipment are detailed. Results, as derived from a number of representative tests using the set, are given."
"THE HIGH COST of serving higher density residential loads with the conventional 120/240-volt radial system and the use of higher secondary voltages in commercial areas suggest that the potentialities of higher voltage systems should be studied for residential areas."
"AN INVESTIGATION has been conducted to determine the applicability of junction transistors to carrier frequency summing amplifiers of the type commonly used, for example, in the a-c analogue computers of military fire-control systems. The general form of the summing amplifier is shown in Fig. 1. Usually, large amounts of negative feedback are employed to maintain a high computing accuracy. The techniques used in the design of low frequency vacuum-tube feedback amplifiers are well known and so there is a tendency to determine if they are applicable to an equivalent transistor amplifier. Recognizing the transistor as the only new circuit element, a knowledge of its circuit behavior is essential. This paper, therefore, describes briefly some of the basic problems confronting the designer of transistor feedback circuits. The problems were investigated from both an analytical and experimental point of view and lead to the evolution of one design philosophy which yielded satisfactory results when applied to the design of an experimental 5-stage amplifier utilizing transistors which were commercially available in mid-1954. Typical transistors are the type 2N34 and newer type 2N709."
"Control of magnetic characteristics of toroidal cores has been successfully accomplished by this indicator, comprised of an integrating and a linear amplifier, and peak-to-peak voltmeter."
"In view of the nature of the steel-making process, a high degree of reliability in electrical service is absolutely essential. The problems involved in steel-plant electric systems are discussed."
"In the Gulf South area, investigations were made to obtain data on three different frequency bands, practical for use in a microwave communications system. Propagation difficulties, such as humidity variations and temperature inversion were investigated."
"PROGRESS in the design of steam-electric generating stations is not an even, forward movement. New generators are installed in existing plants more frequently than in plants at new locations. The effect of this is that possibly 25 years or so can pass before the engineers have an opportunity to design a new plant, free of those restrictions which frequently make it impossible to utilize fully the new equipment which has been made available, as well as the new techniques which have been developed."
"WITH THE EXPANSION and increase in complexity of power systems throughout the country, a more accurate and less time-consuming means of determining the transient stability characteristics of power networks has been required. The solution of power system transient stability problems has, in the immediate past, been accomplished primarily by the use of analogue computer such as the a-c network analyzers. In view of the recent development and availability of effective digital computing devices, a general trend in engineering is toward the use of digital computers in an increasing number of applications. Of the many problems originating in the analysis and operation of power systems, one which lends itself especially to solution by digital computers is that of system transient stability. In applying high-speed computers to familiar problems, it is desirable to consider other available numerical methods rather than simply to mechanize techniques which have been used in the past for hand calculation."
"This approach presents a consistent treatment of electromechanical-energy conversion using the theory of circuits and fields in relative motion. The approach is an attempt to produce an acceptable solution to present-day electrical engineering curricula."
"THE SECOND MIDWEST SYMPOSIUM on Circuit Theory will be held at Kellogg Center, Michigan State University (MSU), Lansing, Mich., December 34, 1956."
"THE SECOND MIDWEST SYMPOSIUM on Circuit Theory will be held at Kellogg Center, Michigan State University (MSU), Lansing, Mich., December 34, 1956."
"THE VEREIN DEUTSCHER INGENIEURE (VDI) celebration in Berlin, Germany, was a great event. For the engineers of Germany it was the climax of a series of nation-wide programs held during 1956 declaring the achievements of 100 years of organized engineering in Germany. It also presented ideas to encourage at future anniversary commemorations even greater results in providing materials and devices, and in making engineers realize that it is their moral obligation to help provide for all people a better and happier living during the next engineering century by participation in activities relating to the philosophical, political, and spiritual guidance of the country. Visiting engineers from over all the world experienced a delightful revelation of German courage, accomplishment, and hospitality. It is well that AIEE and other United States engineering societies were represented by official delegates. Their absence would have been an opportunity lost to prove to engineers assembled there that United States engineers are deeply interested in working with others toward having engineering methods and devices used to raise material and ethical living standards to a level that will convince all men that win or lose, war means only destruction."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The conference papers listed here have been accepted by AIEE Transactions and will be open for written discussion."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"THE MANY PROBLEMS that are often encountered in the fields of engineering and science are generally approached by the method of expressing the problem by mathematical symbols and equations. By applying mathematical methods that are governed by proved theorems, it is possible to obtain solutions to the majority of these equations without encountering very much difficulty; yet there are many equations, the solution of which require many hours of computation. There are also many equations which cannot be solved by the ordinary or advanced mathematical techniques known today."
"A TELEPHONE that transmits pictures along with sound has taken a big step towards commercial feasibility, Bell Telephone Laboratories have announced."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"WITH THE OFFICIAL OPENING of Westinghouse Electric Corporation's new research laboratories, the electrical manufacturing industry has been provided with its most modern research facility to date."
"THE PENETRATION of a critical temperature barrier in the development of guided missiles and supersonic aircraft was demonstrated in New York, N. Y., when General Electric Company (GE) scientists exhibited laboratory models of electronic devices and circuits operating literally red hot. The achievement was described as a major step toward overcoming the inability of electronic controls to withstand the tremendous heat generated by air friction at extreme speeds."
"A radically new type of cathode-ray tube for radar, television, and other electronic display applications has been developed recently. The new electronic device was demonstrated publicly for the first time at the Western Electronic Show and Convention."
"Foreign Nations To Obtain Reactors. The United States Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) and the United States State Department are distributing to interested embassies and United States industrial organizations the details of the program for United States grants of up to $350,000 for research reactor projects undertaken by friendly nations that have Agreements for Co-operation with the United States."
"Human Engineering. Two conferences are to be held in conjunction with the 3rd International Automation Exposition. The first is to be sponsored by Manhattan College at the Hotel New Yorker and is called Automation and Man. The second is sponsored by the Business School of Fordham University, and is entitled, Office Automation for Senior Officers. The dates are November 2829."
"Runway Profile Device. Some of the hardest punches airplanes take come on the ground. Aircraft face one of the toughest structural tests when they taxi out on a runway for a takeoff."
"It was bound to happen  that even Mother Nature would begin to feel the impact of automation: A Texas firm is producing automatic grass-growing machines."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"On the dedication of a new laboratory of the Union Carbide and Carbon Company, the president of Massachusetts Institute of Technology states that expanding industrial research bears a symbiotic relationship to our universities. As American industry, in response to an on-rushing technology, grows more complex, our universities find themselves with new duties  the degree of success will be seen in the future."
"In the operation of a nuclear power reactor, a means of rapid shutdown is required to prevent a runaway in case of equipment malfunction. One scheme involves the use of balls having a neutron-absorbing element to control the reactivity. An apparatus has been devised to transport the radioactive boron steel control balls through a stainless-steel tube. Movement through the tube is effected by traveling magnetic waves which pull clusters of balls within them as they progress linearly through the tubes."
"The continuing need for a more efficient intelligence system in the U. S. Army is focusing attention on television as a basic means of communication. This article summarizes some of the proposed applications for military television in combat, describes types of current interim mobile television units, and presents recent maneuver utilization of two units."
"SOUTHERN COLORADO POWER COMPANY'S transmission system consists of 115-kv lines between its plants at Canon City, Pueblo, Rocky Ford (via La Junta substation), and the Colorado Springs municipal system. These lines all terminate at West Substation located 5 miles northwest of Pueblo. Efficient system operation requires communication with all plants and control of West and La Junta substations by the Pueblo dispatcher. Microwave communication was selected for the Pueblo-West station link. Carrier relaying with communication is used on the rest of the lines."
"THE OPERATION of heterogeneous atomic reactors depends upon a number of control rods, which are lifted in and out of the reactor so as to control the flow of neutrons. At present, these rods are driven by slow-speed reluctance motors operating at speeds between 5 and 15 rpm, producing torques between 3 and 25 foot-pounds."
"DESPITE the high efficiency of germanium and silicon p-n junctions, the small internal losses of this type of rectifier cell are the chief criteria for rating and application."
"A hypothetical sample computer having a limited order code is described, followed by some examples of simple programming. These illustrate the general principles of programming as well as some aspects of the type of thinking necessary for utilizing computers of this kind."
"THE INDUCTION MOTOR DESIGNER has always had to determine the temperature level of critical points within a motor because high temperatures result in shorter motor life and excessive motor failures. The thermal circuit is one means of calculating motor temperatures that has been available to the designer for many years, but has not been used to any great extent because the time required to obtain solutions from the circuit was much too long. The rapid development of computers and computer techniques in the last five years has made the use of thermal circuits much more attractive to the motor designer."
"THERE ARE MANY APPLICATIONS for a simple, reliable 115-kv circuit breaker having moderate interrupting capacity. Such applications include radial circuits, loop circuits, capacitor switching, and other related circuits. Designed to meet these requirements, the type 1150-SF-1000 circuit breaker utilizes the unique arc-interrupting and insulating characteristics of sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) gas."
"A flexible, low cost, industrial servo system for providing control for nuclear research reactors is described. The article shows how the controller is designed, how this design executes the control functions using temperature as the variable, and how these functions apply to reactor kinetics."
"DURING 1954, a radiation pyrometer was developed by the Franklin Institute in conjunction with the Philadelphia Electric Company. It was constructed for the purpose of measuring in-service temperatures on the amortisseur windings of the 25-cycle single-phase generators of two large frequency changers. The temperature measurements which were made with this instrument were the latest in a long series of investigations in connection with recurrent amortisseur winding failures apparently caused by a combination of temperature, stress, and time."
"IN GENERAL servomechanisms are nonlinear, the linear type being only a special case. Consequently, for a number of years a considerable amount of time has been devoted to the study of nonlinearities in control systems. Until recently these studies have been limited to the analysis of systems with inherent nonlinear characteristics. More recently, however, interest has arisen in control systems using nonlinear characteristics for producing distinctive and desirable features of system behavior."
"ONE METHOD of obtaining accurate synchronization of rotating components with electronic signals is by the use of multiplier phototubes. Accuracies of the order of 1 millimicrosecond have been obtained with this method. The synchronization signal is obtained by scanning a light beam, usually a slit image, across a slit located in front of the phototube. The scanning is done by reflecting the light beam from a mirror which is fastened to the rotating component."
"Designed to fulfill the requirements of easy installation and convenient inspection, this new type of waterproof bus duct needs a minimum of gaskets. Over two years of extensive experimentation were necessary to complete this final design."
"Uninterrupted power for electronic computers at weapons direction centers, as provided by this diesel-power generation and distribution system, has been a primary design objective. By installing reserve generating capacity, duplexing the power-distribution system, and emphasizing equipment reliability, continuity is achieved."
"VARIABLE DAMPING allows more efficient use of the inherent capabilities of the components making up a servomechanism. It becomes possible to obtain a considerable improvement over the dynamic performance of a linear servomechanism using the same components. It permits the designer to use lower amplifier gains and smaller servo motors, thereby saving space, weight, and electrical power. The stability of the servomechanism can be made less dependent on backlash because a lower gain error transducer can be used. The variation of the characteristics with amplifier gain is also quite small. The servomechanism will follow high velocity inputs almost as accurately as it follows low velocity inputs, and in addition, ideal transient response is possible with no overshoot and low settling time."
"Epoxy resin casting provides an effective means for embedding such high-voltage electrical components as transformers, bushings, and pot-heads. The molding process and the techniques which have been used in determining optimum shapes are described."
"THIS YEAR the Sheraton-McAlpin Hotel, as well as the Hotel Statler, will be used for technical sessions and committee meetings in connection with the AIEE Winter General Meeting, January 2125, 1957."
"ONCE AGAIN Chicago, Ill., was host to the AIEE Fall General Meeting on October 15, 1956, with headquarters and sessions in the Morrison Hotel. This year, attendance records were broken: 2,055 members, their wives, and guests enjoyed the technical sessions, the inspection trips, and the social events."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS held its regular Fall Meeting on the last day of the 1956 Fall General Meeting in Chicago, Ill. Twenty-five members of the Board were present and three Department Chairmen. The agenda was arranged to conform to the new departmental type organization with the five departments each reporting for their several committees. Other business was introduced by the standing committees of the Board  Finance, Planning and Co-ordination, Constitution and Bylaws."
"DR. KETTERING, director and former vicepresident of General Motors Corporation, was honored by the six leading engineering societies on October 4 when he was presented with an award at a luncheon held during the Fall General Meeting of the AIEE."
"THE EIGHTH FORUM of Institute Technical Committee Chairmen was held Thursday evening, October 4, with Dr. W. R. Clark presiding. He introduced AIEE President M. S. Coover who stated that he was gratified at the technical committees' work in the sections and subsections, as this work gets down to the individual member."
"Conference papers listed below have been accepted for AIEE Transactions and are now open for written discussion until December 31. Duplicate double-spaced typewritten copes of each discussion should be sent to Edward C. Day, Assistant Secretary for Technical Papers, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y., on or before December 31."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"A PROGRAM which would make possible an increase in its undergraduate enrollment by 80 per cent and an increase in its classroom and laboratory buildings by 50 per cent is being planned by Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI)."
"A PROGRAM which would make possible an increase in its undergraduate enrollment by 80 per cent and an increase in its classroom and laboratory buildings by 50 per cent is being planned by Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI)."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"MAJOR ADVANCEMENTS have been made by electrical engineers in 1955 in the five fields of activities, as reported by numerous AIEE technical committees."
"A Photographic Record of Some of the Important Electrical Engineering Achievements of the Year"
"THE SIGNIFICANCE of the usual temperature measurements made on d-c armatures is somewhat vague. The amount of published data on this subject is limited. However, it was evident from the discussions on some of these papers1,2 that some of the points under consideration were controversial, and that additional data would be helpful toward a better understanding."
"Benjamin Franklin was not only a brilliant scientist and inventor, but also a practical man. His simple terminology and logical explanations of scientific phenomena provided a solid foundation for the study of electricity."
"THE PROBLEM of servicing large concentrated loads has been met successfully in the past by using spot networks and raising the distribution voltage from 208 volts to 480 or 575 volts line-to-line. The use of 480 or higher voltage systems offers definite advantages in reduction of size and cost per kva of the secondary network equipment. This equipment includes the network transformer, network protector, relays, fuses, and limiters. Along with the advantages gained, the use of the higher voltage secondary-network equipment has presented certain problems in the design of this equipment. For instance, the network protector is basically a current-carrying device, but the use of the higher voltages requires a careful consideration of such design features as relaying and fusing. To the transformer designer, the use of the larger kva ratings made possible by the higher secondary voltages has presented such problems as maintaining minimum dimensions, providing low sound levels, and the consideration of more efficient cooling methods."
"ONE OF THE PROBLEMS in power-transformer design is the control of the distribution of electrostatic voltage, produced by surge voltages applied to the line terminals. For waves with a relatively steep front, this initial electrostatic distribution is, to a large extent, determined by the capacitance network formed between the winding elements, the core, and the tank structure. This digest describes the wide range of control of this distribution achieved in interleaved shell form windings by the proper application of static plates, as shown in Fig. 1."
"CLOSED-CIRCUIT TELEVISION is one of the many methods of transmitting intelligence that makes use of the plant of the Bell System. Closed-circuit television is differentiated from television broadcasting, familiar to all, in that the originator provides individual distribution of the television signal he has produced to specific preselected points. Several rather general fields of application of closed-circuit television have been found useful in the past. These may be outlined as follows: 1. The reproduction of outstanding entertainment events as they happen at a large number of points on a country-wide basis. 2. The dissemination of information to groups of people scattered at numerous points throughout the country, such as for sales promotion or educational purposes. 3. The industrial use of the service on a local basis for transmitting information from one point, to another where it will be of more value in carrying out the business of the industry."
"ELECTRICAL LOADS in commercial buildings have grown in intensity so they now are equivalent to the load density of a metal-working industrial plant. With the advent of air conditioning in the commercial building, the type of equipment supplied by the power system is also similar to that found in an industrial plant. The logical question then is why should the same engineering principles not apply in both casesthat is, small load-center substations should be located throughout the commercial building, and should supply the load at the higher voltage."
"THE ART of metering polyphase circuits has developed to the point where it is possible to design a compact 2-element polyphase meter that is not only highly accurate but also simple to calibrate. This paper describes the three main phases of the design which contribute to this type meter."
"LOWEST COST DESIGNS which meet user specifications are the objectives of the microwave system planner. To accomplish these objectives, each of the factors which affect system performance should be considered. Some of these factors are: propagation, initial system design, equipment, and maintenance. Since the selection of equipment and quality of maintenance are controlled by the user, only propagation and initial system design are considered in this digest."
"This article deals briefly with the systems that tend to make machines environmental free and, more specifically, with machines that in themselves tend to respond more slowly to environmental changes. Some of the problems encountered because of temperature and the particular nature of the machines themselves are considered, along with possible solutions."
"IN CERTAIN APPLICATIONS for an induction motor, the performance at standstill is of predominant interest. A control motor, such as a torque motor or servo motor, falls into this category. In designing such a motor, one of the usual goals is to obtain maximum stall torque. A better criterion is to maximize the ratio of stall torque to stall input power, because the allowable power dissipation of the motor is essentially invariant. This criterion is used to derive the optimum rotor resistance, the optimum number of poles, and the optimum air-gap diameter of a control motor with prescribed outline dimensions."
"A completely self-contained rocket-type gas generator system which provides all the electric and/or hydraulic power for a guided missile is presented. The system utilizes the decomposition products of a liquid monofuel as the working fluid for a high-speed hot-gas turbine which, in turn, supplies power to drive rotating electric machines, high-speed pumps, or other loads."
"HEAVIER LOADING of distribution transformers offers significant operating economies, but it seems unwise to increase loading substantially without a realistic appraisal of its probable effect on life expectancy. Also, the development of new insulating systems offers potential economies, but the magnitude of the savings cannot be determined until the relative life expectancy of the new systems is determined."
"RECENT IMPROVEMENTS in frequency-multiplier techniques and the development of a simple transistor inverter have made possible high-frequency power supplies which have ruggedness and reliability commensurate with that of magnetic amplifiers. Consequently, it becomes practical to operate magnetic amplifiers at frequencies above the readily available 60- or 400-cycle power supplies. The possibility exists of making magnetic amplifiers with shorter response times, smaller size, and greater power gain than presently attainable in the power frequency range. At high frequencies it is possible to control a given voltage with fewer load turns or with much smaller cores. From the standpoint of keeping amplifier exciting currents small, it is desirable to keep the number of load turns reasonably large. The equation defining the power required to drive the amplifier from cutoff to full output gives an even more important reason for keeping the number of load turns relatively high and reducing the iron cross-sectional area at higher frequencies."
"At the end of World War II, the need for reduction in the number of general-purpose engine generators, as well as associated equipment, for military requirements was evident. Assigned the responsibility of solving the difficult problem, the Corps of Engineers, U. S. Army, is developing a family of generator sets in which the 30-kw interchangeable-engine generator set presents a logical approach to one of the major problems."
"A TORQUE BALANCE was developed for the purpose of measuring torque-motor stall torques in the range of 0.05 to 100,000 dyne-cm. The torques are measured at various angular positions of the torque-motor rotor with respect to the stator. In this torque range, the primary measurement problem is the friction in the pivots or bearings of the measuring instrument. Of the many pivot types tried, the crossed-reed pivot had the lowest friction level."
"ONE OF THE MAJOR PROBLEMS encountered when an extensive power system is to be represented on an a-c network analyzer is that of developing proper equivalents for those portions of the power system which are not to be represented in detail."
"This article summarizes the scientific nationwide Membership Survey, based on personal interviews in mid-1955 with a representative cross section of members in each AIEE district. A comprehensive 7-page questionnaire was very carefully developed with the interviewing conducted by trained field people of Opinion Research Corporation, and all respondents were urged to speak frankly and were assured that their replies would be kept strictly anonymous. The questionnaire was worked out with officers and committee chairmen of the Institute, and carefully pretested in the field. The findings are here presented under the following major sections: I. Reasons for Joining the AIEE and Benefits of Membership; II. Administration of the Institute; III. Meetings; IV. Publications."
"EARLY RECORDING INSTRUMENTS were projection mounted, with either the complete case and cover removable for maintenance or the housing made large enough for convenient access through a door."
"THE AIEE WINTER GENERAL Meeting to be held at the Hotels Statler and Governor Clinton in New York, N. Y., January 30 to February 3, 1956, will feature the largest technical program in the history of the Institute. The social activities, for which the Winter General Meeting also is known, again will be one of the outstanding features. Varied and interesting inspection trips have been arranged, closely allied with the technical sessions."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE CONFERENCE on the Application of Motors to Heating and Cooling Equipment held in St. Louis, Mo., October 1920, was attended by more than 200 representatives of the motor and air-conditioning industries. The Chase Hotel, headquarters for the conference, provided excellent facilities for the 2-day conference which was cosponsored by the Single Phase and Fractional Horsepower Subcommittee of the Committee on Rotating Machinery and the St. Louis Section of AIEE."
"PROMINENT SOVIET ENGINEERS, Vladimire P. Loukine of the Machine Construction Ministry and Georgi P. Kazanski of the Collegium Radio-Technical Ministry, Moscow, U.S.S.R., were entertained at dinner in the Engineers Club on the evening of their departure for Moscow after a 14-day tour of the United States. The American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), with Brigadier General S. E. Reimel, consultant, acted as host by request of the State Department. The dinner was attended by representatives of the AIEE; W. N. Wisely, secretary, American Society of Civil Engineers; E. O. Kirkendall, secretary, American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers; and C. E. Davies, secretary; and other representatives of the ASME. Mr. Logofet, U. S. State Department representative, acted as interpreter as well as Mr. Dudenkov of the Soviet Embassy in Washington, D. C."
"THE first National Simulation Conference, devoted to all types of simulation and associated computing techniques, will be held in Dallas, Tex., January 1921 under the cosponsorship of the North Texas Section of AIEE, the Dallas-Fort Worth Chapter of the Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE) Professional Group on Electronic Computers, the Dallas-Fort Worth Section of IRE, and the Dallas-Fort Worth Chapter of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM)."
"THE ANNUAL TECHNICAL CONFERENCE on Aircraft Electrical Applications was held October 2527 at the Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel in Los Angeles, Calif., with 425 engineers in attendance. Presented during the 3-day conference were 23 technical papers, resulting in a thorough coverage of new ideas and developments in the field. The subject of reliability was stressed both in the papers and the discussions that followed."
"PLANS ARE NEARING COMPLETION for the South West District meeting, which will be held in Dallas, Tex., April 24, 1956, with headquarters at the Baker Hotel. A broad program of diversified technical sessions, inspection trips, social events, and ladies' entertainment is promised for the 1,200 to 1,500 members who are expected to attend."
"THE AIEE'S CONFERENCE on Electrical Engineering as Applied to the Paper and Pulp Industry has been scheduled for March 8 and 9, 1956, at the University of Florida in Gainesville."
"THE ETA KAPPA NU AWARD DINNER will be held in the Keystone Room of the Hotel Statler, New York, N. Y., January 30th, during the AIEE Winter General Meeting. At this time, the Eta Kappa Award for the Outstanding Young Engineer of 1955 will be presented to W. E, Chope, and Honorable Mention citations will be given to J. N. Grace, H. R. Johnson, D. B. Shuster, and Glen Wade."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"FOR MANY YEARS men have dreamed of running a railroad locomotive by remote control. This was accomplished recently on the New Haven Railroad in the New RochelleRye, N. Y., territory. The train was one of the New Haven Railroad's new multiple-unit cars. It could have been a diesel or electric locomotive with a full complement of cars. The control, safety, and communication equipment was provided by Union Switch and SignalDivision of Westinghouse Air Brake Company."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE MARINE MARKET has been augmented by the introduction of Powercon converters and Quietone filters designed by the Cornell-Dubilier Electric Corporation (C-D), maker of capacitors, noise-suppression filter systems, and vibrator-powered converters for converting d-c to a-c power."
"A recent development in inductive elevator control by Union Switch & Signal Division of Westinghouse Air Brake Company, Pittsburgh 18, Pa., has been installed at four stations; WWJ-TV (1,063 ft.), Detroit, Mich.; KVOO-TV (1,175 ft.), Sand Springs (seven miles from Tulsa), Okla.; WGBS-TV (996 ft.), Miami, Fla.; and WISN-TV (1,100 ft.), Milwaukee, Wis. These Union TVL electronic systems control the two-passenger elevators which glide up and down inside the structures."
"The Electric Typewriter Division of International Business Machines Corporation announced development of the IBM Electric Wordwriter, an experimental device which prints any one of forty-two 18-character words or phrases at a rate of more than 150 words a minute. The new machine automatically capitalizes and hyphenates words."
"A library of noise will be one of the major results of a new sound analysis laboratory recently completed by General Electric Company at Fort Wayne, Indiana."
"Development of a portable miniaturized electronic computer to speed reconnaissance data computation for bombing missions was announced by the Air Research and Development Command Headquarters."
"Make engineers of the nation's home-makers of the future is the proposal of an outstanding private utility and manufacturing executive."
"The Institution of Electrical Engineers is arranging a convention on Electrical Equipment of Aircraft to be held in the Institution building in London from May 24, 1956. About 20 papers will be presented. AIEE members are invited."
"The magic of electronics is enabling blind people successfully to carry out the precision testing of close-tolerance production parts at Burroughs Corporation's main plant in Detroit."
"Several types of a giant cross-country freight train promise to open new doors to the expansion of world commerce into underdeveloped areas."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The American Petroleum Institute recently became interested in developing a procedure for determining the existence, classification, and extent of hazardous areas in petroleum refineries. As a result, for the first time they have given to industry a workable sound recommended practice for electric installations in hazardous areas that is not subject only to interpretation of the written word, but to the application of the problem through charts that give a graphic solution."
"The principles of microwave propagation are explained by means of a description of the steps and considerations necessary in the setting up of a typical installation."
"ELECTRIC POWER is usually delivered to the distributed loads of an area by superimposed voltage webs or networks. In general, the higher voltage webs are used to transmit power, whereas the lower voltage webs, which provide much denser area coverage, are used to distribute power. Connections are required between the webs, which consist of step-down transformers with the necessary switching and protective apparatus. There are three general methods of supplying the lower voltage networks: 1. Radial networks. Separate lower voltage networks, each of which is supplied from one step-down transformer location. 2. Integrated networks. Integrated lower voltage networks which are effectively one large network supplied from several step-down transformer locations. 3. Radial networks with emergency cutovers. Same as 1, except normally open ties are provided between the networks to make possible load transfers from one network to other networks under outage or emergency conditions."
"SINCE FORECASTING OF LOADS is necessarily an inexact science, the advantages of using as many different series of data as may be available are evident. By this process, unreasonable extensions of one set of components may become evident when a parallel set of factors produces a different result. It has also been found very helpful to secure the benefit of group opinion. If the individuals in such a group are equally conversant with the facts, greater objectivity is achieved by discussion which produces agreement rather than mere averaging of preconceived opinions. Such a group should include representatives from operating, sales, and staff organizations."
"IT IS EXPECTED that the number of carrier pilot relay installations will follow approximately the same geometric growth rate as that exhibited by the electrical industry as a whole, that is, doubling every 10 or 11 years. If space in the frequency spectrum is to be available for these additional channels, as well as for other carrier applications, steps must be taken to avoid serious frequency congestion problems, which even now are being experienced in certain areas."
"Research in the field of solid-state physics has explained many of the phenomena of magnetic materials. These findings have led to many developments of practical engineering importance."
"ABROAD UNDERSTANDING of the dynamic aspects of feedback control requires an appreciation of the factors affecting the response to a general or arbitrary input. The important characteristics of the response to an input can be readily determined if the important characteristics of a small set of transient responses are given. Thus, a few transient-response parameters are sufficient to specify in a practical sense the general time response of any linear system. A knowledge of the manner in which these parameters relate to the general time response is very helpful for analyzing the dynamic system requirements for particular applications, because it shows what characteristics of a specific input are the cause of dynamic error and what the requirements on the transient response are for keeping this error within allowable bounds."
"The uses and electrical properties of extruded and heat-treated aluminum bus conductors are discussed. Results of tests conducted on various bus sizes and configurations are given."
"PRIOR TO THE DEVELOPMENT of butyl rubber, high-voltage ozone-resisting compounds utilized natural rubber, which requires complete protection by thoroughly dispersing the natural rubber in a vegetable oil derivative or factice. This coated the rubber particles and protected these highly unsaturated molecules from attack by oxygen, ozone, and ultraviolet light. These oil-base insulations, when carefully formulated and processed, have given excellent service within their limits of operating temperatures and environment. However, as with all materials such limitations do exist and, thus, generate the constant search for materials with improved inherent properties."
"THE OPERATION of an electrical network may be defined by means of driving-point and transfer impedances. According to the American Standard Definitions of Electrical Terms, the driving-point impedance at any pair of terminals of a network is the ratio of an applied potential difference to the resultant current at these terminals, all terminals being terminated in any specified manner. Similarly, the transfer impedance between any two pairs of terminals of a network is the ratio of a potential difference applied at one pair of terminals to the resultant current at the other pair of terminals, all terminals being terminated in any specified manner."
"For good public relations, a utility must give consideration in substation designs for residential areas to such factors as appearance and noise. A number of modern installations are described, which have been successfully used in making substations less conspicuous and, thus, more acceptable to nearby residents."
"The roll-welding process for certain industrial applications has presented a number of advantages including the saving of precious metal and lower production costs. As explained, the weldability of a design is determined by calculation of the effect of the shunt-current path."
"This article describes the general characteristics and detection sensitivity of a large-area low-velocity-scanned photoconductive X-ray pickup tube. An industrial inspection system using these tubes has undergone field test. Sensitivity measurements, as well as possible future applications of systems, are discussed."
"In a message to electrical engineering students, President Hooven briefly outlines the technological advances and achievements of the past which have led to today's highly industrialized civilization. The engineer's role and responsibilities are emphasized."
"The author presents to electrical engineering students a special message discussing the basic purposes of the Institute, as well as the advantages of active participation in the AIEE Student Branches."
"With the shortage of engineering talent, the effective utilization of technical skills in industry is essential. The author describes the approach being taken by Bell Telephone Laboratories in solving this important problem."
"This oscillator, similar in design to the type used with high-frequency circuits whenever a stable train of pulsed oscillations is required, was constructed especially for analyzing the effect of feedback on the oscillator's transient response. The relation of zeros and poles of a network may be observed experimentally."
"Accurate determination of the width of short-duration pulses, using common low-bandwidth equipment, is accomplished by the linear pulse stretching circuit. An unknown input pulse may be elongated by a known factor, and the wider pulse is more easily measured. Also included is an analysis of the associated wave-shaper, two methods of readout using available equipment, and the results of measurements."
"The energy-conversion portion of the new electrical engineering curriculum at Massachusetts Institute of Technology is described. The motivation for the curriculum revision is to equip engineers with adequate electrical science to contribute to the advancement of electrical technology in any industry, not merely those normally thought of as electrical."
"The joint Student Branch of AIEE-Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE) at the Missouri School of Mines had near record attendance at its meetings. For its two regular meetings and the September Smoker, the average attendance was over 218. There are now nearly 180 local members and the 200 mark should be reached soon. There were 230 students attending the smoker, 250 at the October Meeting, and 175 at the November Meeting."
"IN THE AREA that produced the B-36 Cutlass, and a myriad of electronic controls for aircraft, the AIEE will hold its South West District Meeting at the Baker Hotel, Dallas, Tex., April 24, 1956."
"THE TRANSISTOR CIRCUITS Conference is scheduled for February 1617, 1956, at the University of Pennsylvania. The Conference is sponsored by the AIEE, Institute of Radio Engineers, and the University of Pennsylvania. Registration and hotel reservation forms may be obtained from C. W. Hargins, the Franklin Institute Laboratories, 20th St. and Benjamin Franklin Parkway, Philadelphia 3, Pa. The tentative program is as follows:"
"The AIEE Recorders and Controllers Conference on New Developments in Instrumentation for Industrial Control will be held at the Hotel Bradford, Boston, April 2627, 1956. The following topics listed as potential papers have been conceived by the Conference Committee. The final selection of manuscripts to be presented will be decided by the Conference Papers Review Committee, based on quality and timeliness. The closing date for Conference Papers is February 24th."
"THE WESTERN COMPUTER Conference is to be held in San Francisco, Calif., February 79, 1956, at the Fairmont Hotel. The tentative technical program for the conference is as follows:"
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE NORTH EASTERN District Meeting will be held in Rochester, N. Y., May 24, with headquarters established at the Sheraton Hotel on East Avenue. A full and varied technical program is being arranged for five sessions. The meeting will open with a general session addressed by a prominent Rochester engineer. A total of 13 technical sessions will be on the program covering such diversified subjects as communication, transistors and semiconductors, illumination, transformers, insulators and insulation, instrumentation, industrial electronics, and others."
"RECENT FELLOWS honored by the AIEE New York Section: C. F. Savage, Consultant, professional relations, General Electric Company, N. Y., for his contributions to the design and development of electrical instrumentation; A. R. Nelson, general superintendent of distribution, electric department Public Service Electric and Gas Company, Newark, N. J., in recognition of his engineering and administrative achievement in the over-all guidance of the continued development and expansion of one of the nation's largest transmission and distribution systems; W. B. Fisk, system engineer, Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. for contributions to the design, installation, and operation of inside and outside plants in a large metropolitan electric system; Harry Barker, partner of Barker and Wheeler, New York, N. Y., for over half a century of active service to the electrical engineering profession as editor, educator, and consultant; C. E. Scholz, vice-president and chief engineer, American Cable and Radio Corporation, MacKay Radio and Telegraph Company, Inc., All America Cables and Radio, Inc., and The Commercial Cable Company, N. Y., for his design of high-power radio transmission systems and for contributions to international radio telegraph operations; C. E. Dean, director of publications, Hazeltine Electronics Corporation, Little Neck, N. Y. for contributions to literature in the field of communications, particularly television. Also honored but not shown in the group was Fulton Cutting, professor of physics and assistant to the president, Stevens Institute of Technology, Hoboken, N. J., for services to electronic engineering in the fields of research, management and education."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"A METALS PILOT PLANT designed to bridge the gap between laboratory and commercial production of new alloys and processes has been opened by Westinghouse Electric Corporation at Blairsville, Pa. The $6 million facility under one roof includes virtually all types of metal processing equipment."
"THE Nuclear Engineering and Science Congress, in conjunction with the International Atomic Exposition, was held December 1215, 1955, at the Public Auditorium in Cleveland, Ohio. The Congress was sponsored by 26 of the nation's leading engineering and scientific societies, and was co-ordinated by the Engineers Joint Council. The Exposition was under the sponsorship of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers. Local arrangements were handled by the Cleveland Engineering Society in co-operation with the Cleveland Technical Societies Council. More than 3,000 engineers and scientists were in attendance at the various sessions."
"The Institute of Radio Engineers, National Symposium on Microwave Techniques, February 23, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa."
"MOUNT POPOCATEPETL, the once active Mexican volcano, is causing a new stir these daysvia television."
"The Special Training Division of the Institute of Nuclear Studies (ORINS), Oak Ridge, Tenn., has announced a revised course schedule for 1956 which supersedes the one published in October 1955."
"Development of a highly effective device for killing virus in vaccine production has been revealed by General Motors Corporation (GM), New York, N. Y."
"Radioactivity well logging was pushed several strides closer to positive identification and location of oil-bearing formations recently by the first successful test of the world's smallest atom smasher by Well Surveys, Inc., Tulsa, Okla. an affiliate of Lane-Wells Company, one of the Dresser Industries. Perfection of the miniature high energy source is one step in the application of atomic energy to oil field problems begun by the company nearly 20 years ago."
"Fellowships in systems engineering for the academic year 19561957 have been announced by the Ramo-Wooldridge Corporation in co-operation with the California Institute of Technology and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."
"Two Yale faculty members, one a medical authority on bones and the second an engineering expert, have joined forces in an unique study of bone engineering."
"First details of the United States Navy's Mark 63 gunfire control system, capable of tracking speedy jet aircraft with 3-inch and 5-inch naval guns in any weather, were disclosed today."
"Dr. Jose M. R. Delgado, Associate Professor of Physiology and Psychology at the Yale School of Medicine, gave his report on how implanting very thin electrodes in the human brain can serve as a valuable aid in the diagnosis of epilepsy at the Eastern Association of Electroencephalographers meeting at the New York University-Bellevue Medical Center, New York, N. Y, With his associate, Dr. Hannibal Hamlin, of Providence, R.I., Dr. Delgado has made electrode diagnoses of eight patients with severe psychomotor epilepsy."
"Purchase by the United States Army of a $4-million electronic data-processing system, Bizmac, that converts months of business paperwork into minutes of push-button operations was announced today by Frank M. Folsom, president, Radio Corporation of America (RCA), and Brig. Gen. Nelson M. Lynde, Commanding General, U. S. Army Ordnance Tank-Automotive Command (OTAC), Detroit, Mich."
"The electronic hotel, in which computers applying the principles of so-called mechanical brains will automaticallyand flawlesslyregister guests, assign rooms, sort mail, route messages, and prepare bills, was foreshadowed recently in the exhibit of Minneapolis-Honeywell Regulator Company at the American Hotel Association convention in New York, N. Y."
"Photographs, printed material, and signatures were transmitted over 10 miles of ordinary telephone lines in the first public demonstration of an industrial television system which operates without costly video pairs, microwave, or coaxial cables."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"In his Winter Meeting address, President Hooven discusses the phenomenal changes taking place in our society as the result of our rapid technological advances. A glimpse into the future, based on today's progress, is presented."
"Past, present, and future problems facing the electrical utility industry are outlined. The author points out the challenges and opportunities which the utility field offers to the young engineer of today."
"Many accidents are actually built into test equipment through failure to take the human element into consideration. Methods are presented for the elimination of a large percentage of these accidents."
"STUDIE SDEVOTED TOP REDETERMINATION of ground resistance on the basis of geometric dimensions and ground resistivity generally assume that the resistivity of the soil is uniform. While this assumption is frequently justified in view of the usually meager knowledge of the actual ground resistivity distribution and the mathematical difficulties caused by any nonuniformity of the ground resistivity, it also can be misleading under certain conditions."
"  for his outstanding contribution to the electrification of industry  and for his inspiration, leadership, and teaching of men in this work."
"LEONID ALEXANDER UMANSKY was born in Nikolaiev, Russia, an industrial and shipbuilding town, on July 23, 1890. His father was a mechanical engineer, and some of his forebears, including a grandfather who pioneered the coal mining industry in southern Russia, were engaged in one form or another of industrial activity. After the usual boyhood training in what we call the elementary and high schools, he enrolled as a student of electrical engineering at the Polytechnic Institute of St. Petersburg from whence he graduated in 1915."
"I WOULD BE LESS THAN HUMAN if I did not feel a deep gratitude to the Institute, and its Edison Medal Committee for the high honor bestowed on meand if I did not feel a certain amount of pride in this honor. Yet, I fully realize that, although an individual is often singled out, it is really associates amongst whom he has spent his active years, that jointly deserve the honor. These associates create the proper working atmosphere, they train or assist the individual, offer guidance and suggestions, share his work and, in short, make the man a member of the team."
"The problem of evaluating the condition of generator insulation seems to be general throughout the industry. This article deals with recent experiences of the Detroit Edison Company with direct high-voltage testing."
"IN THE PAST FEW YEARS a great interest has developed in the use of digital computers for solving the engineering problems of utility companies. The utility engineer already was familiar with t h e use of computers such as the network analyzer for power system studies, but many types of problems were encountered which were either long and tedious or impossible of solution on the network analyzer. As digital computers became more available, often because they could be bought or rented for use by both the engineering and accounting staffs, the engineer turned to them as a new tool for solving his problems. In doing this, he often overlooked the new methods that have been developed in analogue computers."
"MOTOR NOISE must be reduced to ever lower levels to meet the new demands of motor users. Today, an increasing awareness of noise is largely caused by the progressive mechanization of our lives, requiring use of noise-producing machines, as well as by the emphasis in recent years on physiological and psychological effects."
"X-ray studies of the internal workings of critical moving components have been hampered until recently by the inability to obtain a satisfactory brightness level. Through use of image intensification, it is now possible to make X-ray motion studies in many applications previously considered impractical."
"MAGNETIC-AMPLIFIER CIRCUITS, which once were limited to several-cycle delays, have been improved by the availability of high-performance rectangular core materials, as well as by the introduction of circuits which yield a complete response within a half cycle. The adoption of pulse techniques, which employ only magnetic and semiconductor materials, has made it possible to design decicycle magnetic-amplifier systems which have response times in t h e order of one - tenth to one-hund redth of a cycle of the power-supply frequency. It is possible, as a result, to make response-time delays negligible in many rapid closed-loop systems; also, inherent delays which have introduced undesired phase-lag characteristics in a system can be eliminated effectively."
"This article describes a method for evaluating steam-electric additions to an expandin g power system, and gives the results of a study made by the Consolidated Edison Company of New York to justify additional investment for larger sized units."
"A FREQUENCY TRANS DUCER recently developed uses a circuit that converts frequency into d-c millivolts. Any standard d-c millivoltmeter, either indicating or recording with dial or paper marked in cycles, may be used to measure its output, thus simplifying and broadening the scope of frequency meters."
"PREVIOUS AIEE REPORTS covered the performance, operation, and maintenance of shunt capacitors.1,2 These reports contained little information about capacitor switching. In recent years, the use of switched capacitors has increased. This report has been formulated to provide a resume of existing literature and known experience concerning the factors to be considered in such applications."
"Recent circuit emphasis on maximum stability and precision and minimum size has extend ed the use of molybdenum permalloy powder cores, originally designed for telephone circuits, to a wide variety of applications. Intrinsic properties and basic behavior, as well as design considerations, of the cores are discussed."
"A SIMPLE CONTROL and /or memory circuit of four coils represents 24 = 16 possible combinations. The mental juggling required to keep these sorted calls for a properly organized score card. Relay requirements can be minimized and the score card, or map, delineates circuit synthesis."
"The thermal life of a n electrical insulating system made up of magnet wire, coated wi tha modifiedsilicone enamel and other silicone components, has been evaluated by three different test methods, which are in accordance with proposed AIEE Test Codes that have either received tentative approval or are under consideration."
"Studies in preparation for the installation of a second unit at Hiwassee Dam showed that the 26-per-cent additional installed cost of a pumpturbine-type unit was justified by economic and operating advantages. Design and operation characteristics of this 80,000-hp unit, as well as the field test to begiven after initial operation, are discussed."
"THE RESULTS of synchronograph field tests and Anacom laboratory studies on a 24-kv multiline bus are presented. Previous studies on higher voltage stations indicated the influence of multiple lines on the surge voltage at the bus and the connected transformer. Extrapolation of that data to lower voltage systems seemed questionable, however, because of differences in the station circuit constants. This study has extended the station surge-performance d a t a down to the 24-kv level and, also, has provided additional verification of the miniature-system method by means of synchronograph field tests."
"THIS SYSTEM has been installed in the West Indies to connect the public telephone and cable services of the island of Puer to Rico with similar services in the near by Virgin Islands. As shown in Fig. 1, the reare two radio links, one of 69 miles from Sabana Liana, Puerto Rico to Grown Mountain on St. Thomas Island, and one of 45 miles from Grown Mountain to Ghristiansted on St. Croix Island. The three radio stations are connected through cables to t heir telephone exchanges and telegraph offices."
"The problem of radio interference caused by the proximity of fluorescent lighting systems is discussed. Means of evaluating the effectiveness of noise suppression schemes are described."
"IN X-RAY DIFFRACTION, the data are obtained by measuring the intensities diffracted at any given angle from a sample. Inasmuch as the intensities to be measured are often extremely low, the Geiger counter has been used as the measuring device because of its great sensitivity. Because of the shortcomings of the Geiger counter, several authors, notably Lang and Knowles, have reported on results with the proportional counter replacing the Geiger tube. They used a cylindrical tube with concentric anode wire, with the X-ray beam entering a side window and passing perpendicular to the axis of the cylinder. In recent work at General Electric, both a tube similar to theirs and also a rectangular tube with an anode grid and parallel plate construction have been used."
"Station WBAP-TV in Fort Worth has converted its studio lighting to permit color telecasting. The problems encountered and their solutions are outlined."
"THE D-C NETWORK ANALYZER described is a new version of a device which, although it has been utilized for 40 years, is still useful. The d-c network analyzer has three important advantages over the a-c network analyzer, which it resembles : 1. Solutions are obtained more rapidly. 2. Less training is required for operating personnel. 3. The equipment is considerably less expensive."
"IN THE GENERAL APPLICATION of the method of symmetrical components to the solution of 3-phase problems, 3-phase circuits are resolved into three singlephase circuits, one for each of the sequences, positive, negative, and zero."
"DALLAS AND FORT WORTH, TEX., will be hosts to the South West District Meeting, April 2, 3, and 4. Inasmuch as the Dallas-Fort Worth area is the second largest aircraft producing area in the United States, it is particularly fitting that Electricity in Aircraft be the theme of the Dallas meeting."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"AT 10:30 A.M. on May 2, the AIEE North Eastern District Meeting will open its headquarters at the Sheraton Hotel in Rochester, N. Y. The opening session will be a general meeting. Those attending will be welcomed to Rochester by the Hon. Peter Barry, mayor, and the delegates will be welcomed on behalf of the AIEE by AIEE President, M. D. Hooven."
"THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS met on Thursday, February 2, 1956, at the Statler Hotel in New York, during the Winter General Meeting. Of the 27 members of the Board, 26 were present. A brief summary of some of the major actions taken is given here. More complete discussions of these and other problems before the Board will appear in future issues of Electrical Engineering."
"THE AIEE and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) Conference on Nonlinear Control Systems will be held at the Frick Auditorium of Princeton University, Princeton, N. J., March 2628. The conference is sponsored by the Feedback Control Systems Committee of the AIEE and by the Instruments and Regulators Division of the ASME."
"THE SECOND ANNUAL general assembly of Engineers Joint Council (EJC), held January 2627, in the Hotel Statler, New York, N. Y., was attended by approximately 500 engineers. The two-day program, presented to promote the dissemination of information about engineers and their profession included forums on the Reserve Forces Act 1955, utilization of balanced teams of engineers and engineering technicians, growth pattern of the engineer, and the Hoover Commission reports."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"A STREAK OF LIGHT resembling tracer bullets traveling at the supersonic speed of 2,700 miles per hour was put into operation recently at New York International Airport (Idlewild), New York, N. Y, to guide planes in landing during periods of limited visibility."
"THE TYPE TY-50/60/70 series vhf television transmitter antennas developed by General Electric (GE) Company consist of stiff steel masts mounting one or more groups of batwing style radiating elements. These batwings are connected with 7/8- inch Styroflex feedlines to specially designed junction boxes. Either two or four 3V8-inch transmission lines (depending upon the choice of operational modes) are mounted on the mast with their bases terminating in 3V8-inch flanges between the bottom of the lowest bay and the mast base. The upper ends of these transmission lines are connected directly, or by means of quick disconnect Tee feeds, to the proper junction boxes."
"Conference on Radio Interference Reduction, Armour Research Foundation of Illinois Institute of Technology, March 67, Technology Center, Chicago, Ill."
"A PARTIAL PREVIEW was given recently of the heretofore classified system for the air defense of North America. This experimental combination of radar, radio, computer, and telephone network is centered at the secret Lincoln Laboratory, operated by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (M.I.T.) for the Department of Defense."
"THE SCHOOL OF DENTISTRY, Loyola University, Chicago, Ill., 2 years ago pioneered in the use of closed-circuit television to help teach dental students."
"A MAJOR ACHIEVEMENT that opens new possibilities in electronics was reported recently by Bell Telephone Laboratories. This is a major breakthrough in transistor technologynew fabricating techniques for an entirely new kind of transistor."
"The most complete survey of the status of development of nuclear power in the world for peaceful purposes will be published by the United Nations in 16 volumes, Proceedings of the International Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy. The first available part will be Volume 3, on Power Reactors."
"A complete holiday mealeverything from chicken fricassee to crepe suzetteswas prepared in a recent demonstration of thermostatically controlled, top-of-the-range cooking before the New Jersey Home Economics Association."
"A versatile long-range radio for jeeps, tanks, and trucks that goes on the air moments after being parachute-dropped in its vehicle has been developed by the Signal Corps Engineering Laboratories of Fort Monmouth, N. J., and the Collins Radio Company, Cedar Rapids, Iowa."
"The Socony Mobil Building, occupying the square block between 41st and 42nd Streets, and Lexington and Third Avenues is the first office building in New York's Manhattan to be supplied with 265/460 volt current. This simplifies installation and reduces costs of supplying electric power."
"A new mill product in the form of a single strip, or sheet, of solid copper, brass, or aluminum in which tubes are inflated to desired running lengths in a variety of shapes or sizes has been announced by J. M. Kennedy, chairman of the board of Revere Copper and Brass Inc."
"Listed in date order are the various courses offered at the Oak Ridge Institute of Nuclear Studies (ORINS) which is sponsored by the Atomic Energy Commission."
"The following new books are among those recently-received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"In a system designed to within a constraint such as a given over-all weight wherein failure of any one or more of the system's components causes system failure a design criterion for the weight vs. failure probability parameters of each component is given to achieve maximum system reliability."
"Elementary principles of probability theory are used and a systematic development is presented which leads to formulas, charts and guide rules for engineers involved in the design of systems and equipments. Examples are given which illustrate the use of the formulas and the principles derived. This study attempts to show that when the problem of obtaining reliable equipment which consists of unreliable parts is present the solution is redundancy. Complexity by itself need not necessarily lead to unreliability if complexity is used correctly. Two very simple redundancy schemes are described and analyzed. It is shown that it is possible to obtain a desired reliability at relatively reasonable cost in terms of increased size and weight."
"A mathematical model is presented which will enable the designer of electronic equipment to compute its survival probability. Thus, he can make the engineering decision on whether or not the equipment meets its reliability specification. Although only electronic circuits are discussed here, the model is equally applicable to mechanical and electrical systems. In the model the performance parameters (gain, power output, bandwidth, etc.) are expressed as a function of the individual components of the circuit. The statistical distributions of the component characteristics (dependent on both operating time and environment) are then used in conjunction with the circuit equations to yield a simplified expression for the circuit survival probability. This simplification involves an approximation method using the multivariate Gram-Charlier expansion. These methods are applicable even if the component characteristics are correlated and are described by any probability density function. The fact that individual performance parameters may be correlated is taken into account automatically."
"Some concepts of reliability based on failure rates of components are presented. These concepts are further interpreted from a statistical point of view for better understanding of the basic reasons for component failures  hence unit, subsystem and system failures. Based on these concepts a program of testing, data collection and analysis is outlined as an approach to estimating and controlling these failure rates to a sufficiently low level so that system reliability is consistent with design objectives."
"Reliability, so important to the future of commercial and military electronics, is at last becoming quantitative. Because the scope and problems are so great, it has taken much time to arrive at definite courses of action. Now reliability is emerging from generalities and desires to a concrete stage of evaluation, implementation and measurement. Reliability (a great concern to the electronics industry) is a phase of the revolution in electronics. Implications of this revolution are seen in such diverse phenomena as the shortage of engineers, the emergence of systems engineering, automation and the problem of reliability."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Since the Military Standard MIL-E-1B replaced JAN-1A Specifications, the tube industry and tube users have been searching for a common satisfactory measure for the life quality of electron tubes. This paper proposes a new measure, incorporating the information in the electron tube failure-age distribution for replacement of the obsolete Average Life Percentage originally specified in JAN-1A. A Weibull distribution with a fixed shape parameter was found appropriate for describing the failure age of electron tubes under a wide variety of application. Hence, a single measure, the scale parameter, will characterize the life quality of electron tubes. Secondary life-quality measures, such as mean life, median life and the recently introduced reliability, hazard rate, etc., can all be expressed in terms of the proposed measure. Some numerical examples are given at the end of the paper."
"By the time television deflection circuits had become an important tube application, it was known that conventional static-characteristics and trans-conductance tests of tubes did not correlate well with deflection output. Furthermore, some tube defects peculiar to deflection-circuit operation were not apparent during such tests. Until recently, therefore, the quality of tubes for this application was checked by means of operation tests in a deflection circuit. Although such a test has merit, particularly for checking characteristics such as microphonics, considerable engineering time was consumed on the design of the test set and the deflection-circuit plug-in boxes for each tube type."
"In today's highly competitive TV receiver market a successful manufacturer must take advantage of every resource at his command to produce the finest receiver possible for the price tag on the set. While it is agreed that cabinetry, gimmicks, price and give-aways influence many sales, a large percentage of the market still looks for quality and reliability of performance in its purchases. Today, TV design engineers are in a position to present sales with any combination of performance characteristics it may desire within the limits established by price."
"The relationship between reliability and performance ability of tubes, as both are affected by design factors, can be stated with considerable accuracy. For example, a tube with double the mutual conductance of another tube has grid-cathode spacing all other dimensions in the grid vicinity reduced to 59.5 per cent, which may adversely affect microphonic response by a factor of eight. Over the fifteen years from 1930 to 1945, the Gm of tubes was increased at a remarkably uniform rate of 2.18 times (a multiplying factor) every five years; it dropped to 1.19 times for the next five years, and since 1950 there has been no multiplying factor. The reasons for this change of trend in tube design are analyzed as related to fundamental design factors. It has shown that the current practice of using high performance tubes almost exclusively has all but brought about the disappearance of lower performance tubes. Equipment designers could enjoy a consideralbe increase in built-in tube reliability if the newer materials and techniques that have been developed for the high-performance tubes were incorporated in more conservatively designed, lower performance tubes. As affected by design, built-in reliability of a tube decrease much more rapidly than built-in performance increases. The need for better electron tube life and reliability increases in importance year by year. Although effort on reliability development also increases at a rapid pace, the need for even more such development remains a step ahead of the results obtained. This stiuation is due to the ever increasing complexity of electronic equipments. In fact, each accomplishment of a higher degree of reliability extends tube usage into even more demanding applications. The reliability program is thus a dynamic one, and has no presently definable objective level"
"It is often said that quality is priceless. We may use the idiom of the engineer, however, and say that quality in the television industry is definitely not priceless, but must be bought and guaranteed by the unending efforts of the production engineer."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Choice of an electronic component or electron device for a particular application is more likely than not to be based on a personal estimate of one or two obvious attributes, such as first cost, assumed reliability or simply availability. The author proposes a set of five basic criteria, with quantitative evaluation, to comprehend all attributes of any candidate device or component. These criteria are stated and defined as reliability, availability, compatibility, economy and reproducibility, the initial letters of which are combined to form the acronym, RACER. A method of assigning numerical values to each criterion of the RACER system is proposed so that a summary evaluation figure of merit may be derived for unbiased engineering and managerial comparison and decision among individual devices and components for particular applications. A practical example is given."
"An investigation was made of the behavior of the surface resistivity of a number of ceramic and organic materials during exposure to high relative humidity. Particular emphasis was given to glazed high alumina ceramics from commercial sources. The effects of variables such as contamination, standing direct current potential, firing atmosphere, surface finish and electrodes of different metals were investigated. The uncontaminated specimens of the materials examined can be listed in the order of diminishing surface resistivity as follows: High molecular weight polymers, glazed high alumina ceramics, glasses and glazed ceramics, unglazed ceramics and glass bonded mica. All of the materials are very sensitive to contamination, which tends to reduce them to a nearly common level of surface resistivity. Severe and rapid migration of silver from silver electrodes under the test conditions were observed. Electrodes of solder, tin, copper and platinum showed no discernible migration. The necessity for the development of better means for avoiding contamination and its effects, maintaining high surface resistivity and eliminating silver migration is emphasized by the results of this work."
"Those engaged in research have been striving for new approaches to current engineering demands. New materials, new devices, new designs and, above all, simplification of fundamental concepts are required to provide reliable operations in the field. The logistics of many highly complex operations have been developed. The problem that must be solved is how to develop and produce units that will reliably perform these operations. In some cases reliability means seconds, minutes, hours, days, or years of unfailing operation. A booster for quickly getting a heavy plane in the air need perform only for a few seconds. The same is true of some rocket engines. A laggard performance or failure to operate may mean the failure of the mission. The engines or turbo-jets of a plane are expected to operate many consecutive hours without failure. In many missiles, however, although some components need only operate once, there must be almost absolute certainty that they will operate when required. This applies to those stocked for some time. Time must not reduce the probability of their operation. In all such instances reliability and dependability are practically synonymous."
"One branch of the Service found that it had spent some fifteen times the original cost on certain electronic gear. The total cost of military equipment to the Services must include the cost of spares, maintenance and repair, plus the changes found necessary after the equipment has been accepted for use. When you add to this the problem of getting and keeping competent technicians, the growing emphasis on reliability is not hard to understand."
"The vigorous pursuit of three basic design requirements has given Motorola significant results in the visible form of more reliable missile equipment. We have called these three requirements the triad for design reliability, and have proved their worth on a major missile project."
"The ever increasing complexity and size of military electronic equipment has made the subject of component reliability extremely important. This is expecially true of electron tubes, and the problem has been the subject of much thought and effort."
"It is well known that the insulating pro-properties of dielectrics can be spoiled by contamination with, for example, fingerprints, active solder fluxes and dust. The introduction of printed circuits has extended the list of contaminants to include residual ferric chloride etchant and cleaning agents. In addition, silver migration is now known to be responsible for certain dielectric failures. It was the object of this research to study systematically the matter of surface contamination on dielectric materials."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Much credit is due Elliot Gruenberg and Tom Mederos who have taken over the PGTRC activities of Charlie Doersam during his recuperation. Tom Mederos, Sales Manager of ASCOP, is the Secretary-Treasurer; Elliot Gruenberg, Maxson Corporation, is the Publications Committee Chairman. That both men have performed outstandingly in their jobs is documented by this first issue of the TRANSACTIONS and by the excellent program PGTRC is sponsoring at the National Convention. While special congratulations are due Tom and Elliot for these successes, the same sentiments are extended to all members of the group. The response to our request for technical papers was pleasantly overwhelming."
"It is often desirable to transmit synchro data over a two-wire line or radio link. This can be done by using time division multiplex. The amplitudes are then sampled and transmitted as pulse trains representing the sine and cosine of the shaft angles of the synchro transmitters. This paper discusses various methods of producing the servo error signals from the information in the received pulse trains."
"This collection of papers describes the design, operation, and salient features of the AN/AKT-14 PCM Telemetric Data System. The system, complete in itself, includes transmitting, receiving, and data processing equipment."
"The AKT-14 UNIT shown in the block diagram of Fig. 1 is the airborne portion of the AN/UKR-7 Telemeter. Information originates as electrical signals in transducers such as strain gages at a level in the order of five millivolts. These signals are amplified by individual amplifiers to about ten volts. Each of the 32 channels is electronically sampled at a rate of 750 samples per second and commutated onto a single bus. Each of these information samples, of which there are 24,000 per second, is coded into an eight-digit binary code. This code consists of eight active plus one inactive, or blank, digits. The resultant coded information is transmitted to the ground by an fm radio link or it may be recorded on magnetic tape in the aircraft."
"As performance requirements are becoming more stringent, precise measurements and study of large quantities of telemetric data are now mandatory for missile and aircraft development. Improvements in equipment design can best be accomplished by utilization and reduction of more and more raw data to properly evaluate performance characteristics during the equipment's design stages. The UKR-7 Telemetric Data Receiving Set is designed to eliminate the long delays between the time of measurement and the time at which comprehensive data is available in either plotted or tabular form by overcoming many of the problems of storing and reducing telemetered information."
"To effectively evaluate critical portions of the primary data recording, a quick-look analog recorder is utilized in the ground system. This visual presentation, readily available for inspection in real time, presents a continuous record of 750 digital points per second on all 32 channels of information in analog form accurate to plus or minus three per cent."
"The volume of information acquired in eight minutes of a test vehicle flight has been mentioned previously as amounting to approximately 100 million bits of information. This represents over 12 million data points to an accuracy of one part in 256. If this information were punched on cards it would require a storage space of about 134 cubic feet (Fig. 1). Obviously, much of this information is of no significance to the test engineer and may be eliminated, as it occurs, by utilizing a quick-look recording and the programmed translator."
"The problem of rapidly processing and reducing large amounts of data is a prime concern of all activities involved in the testing of aircraft and guided missiles. With the ever-increasing volume of data to be handled it is apparent that reduction of the data by humans is not only extremely slow and inefficient but also very expensive in terms of time in getting test results in the hands of cognizant test engineers."
"During the question and answer period following the presentation of these papers, considerable discussion of the comparison of sampling rates in time-division telemetry systems and frequency response in frequency-division systems occurred. It is the purpose of this appendix to enumerate some of the basic differences in these two concepts and their practical application in the evaluation of the performance capabilities of telemetering systems."
"The program to be described is one used in an advanced phase of the flight testing of the Digitac system, an airborne automatic control system utilizing a digital computer. The purpose of the system is summarized. The configuration of the system and some specific components are mentioned. The computer and its order coding system are described briefly. The specific program and its code are presented in detail as far as permitted. Emphasis is placed on certain aspects which are interesting or unique and may be applicable to others in this field. Simplification of the program is made by means of block diagrams."
"In recent years a number of fundamentals has been discovered through research which place new tools at the disposal of the circuit and system designers. Examples of this new art are concepts such as information theory, dealing with the quantization and transmission of information, and solid state principles from which have developed the transitor and other devices. This paper surveys certain new art principles, techniques and devices as they apply to the design of new telephone switching systems."
"Combined measurements have been made of surface recombination velocity, surface photo-voltage, and the modulation of surface conductance and surface recombination velocity by an external field, on etched germanium surfaces. Two samples, cut from an n-type and a p-type crystal of known body properties, were used, the samples being exposed to the Brattain-Bardeen cycle of gaseous ambients. The results are interpreted in terms of the properties of the surface space-charge region and of the fast surface states. It is found that the surface barrier height, measured with respect to the Fermi level, varies from 0.13 to +0.13 volts, and that the surface recombination velocity varies over about a factor of ten in this range. From the measurements, values are found for the dependence of charge trapped in fast surface states on barrier height and on the steady-state carrier concentration within the semiconductor."
"A theoretical treatment of the field effect, surface photo-voltage and surface recombination phenomena has been carried out, starting with the Hall-Shockley-Read model and generalizing to the case of a continuous trap distribution. The theory is applied to the experimental results given in the previous paper. One concludes that the distribution of fast surface states is such that the density is lowest near the centre of the gap, increasing sharply as the accessible limits of surface potential are approached. From the surface photo-voltage measurements one obtains an estimate of 150 for the ratio (p/n) of the cross-sections for transitions into a state from the valence and conduction bands, showing that the fast states are largely acceptor-type. On the assumption that surface recombination takes place through the fast states, the cross-sections are found to be: p  6 101 cm2 and n  4 1017 cm2."
"A simple transistorized device has been constructed for amplifying and regenerating binary code signals as they are transmitted over substantial lengths of transmission line. By the use of simple circuitry, means are provided whereby the distortion in the output of one repeater due to low frequency cutoff is compensated in the next repeater. Furthermore, the repeater is effectively and simply timed from its own regenerated output. A brief discussion of the theory of the circuit is presented along with measured results and oscillograms showing its performance. The effects of extraneous interference on the production of errors in such a repeater are reported. These results are in substantial agreement with theory."
"A pulse regenerative amplifier is a bistate circuit which introduces gain and pulse reshaping in a pulse transmission or digital data processing system. Frequently it is used also to retime the pulses which constitute the flow of information in such systems. The small size, reliability, and low power consumption of the transistor have led naturally to the use of the transistor as the active element in the amplifier. It is the purpose of this paper to describe some of the techniques that are pertinent to the design of synchronized regenerative amplifiers operating at a pulse repetition rate of the order of one megacycle per second. An illustrative design of an amplifier for use in a specific digital computer is presented."
"At frequencies in the 5060 kmc region the use of circular electric wave transmission can provide lower transmission losses than the dominant mode, even in relatively small pipes. The performance of two sizes of waveguide was investigated. In the small size (7/16   I.D.  1/16  wall) the measured TE01 attenuation was approximately 5 db/100 ft and is appreciably less than that of the dominant mode. The measured attenuation for the medium sized (7/8  I.D.  1/8  wall) waveguide was 0.5 db/100 ft which is about one-fourth that for the dominant mode. This paper also considers briefly some of the spurious mode conversion-reconversion effects over the transmission band and their reduction when spurious mode filters are distributed along the line. Allowance has been made for the added losses due to oxygen absorption when air is present."
"A general discussion is given on the philosophy behind the development of automatic test facilities and the relationship of this activity to product design and manufacturing engineering. A brief historical discussion of early automatic test machines used by the Western Electric Company leads to a summary of design considerations. These considerations are then illustrated by descriptions of the specific techniques used in three automatic facilities of considerable diversity."
"The large variety and quantity of shop-wired relay switching equipments produced by the Western Electric Company lead to the use of comprehensive and flexible manufacturing testing facilities to insure quality of product and to reduce costs. An older manual type test set is briefly described and used to illustrate the functions and operation of two automatic test sets designated as Card-O-Matic and Tape-O-Matic respectively."
"The modern telephone system consists of a variety of electrical components connected as a complex network. Each year, millions of relays, capacitors, resistors, fuses, protectors, and other forms of apparatus are made for use in telephone equipment for the Bell System. Each piece of apparatus must meet its design requirements, if the system is to function properly. This article describes an automatic machine developed by the Western Electric Company for testing paper capacitors and resistance-capacitance networks used in central office switching equipment."
"A solid-surface parabolic antenna, sixty feet in diameter and of aluminum construction, has been erected on a hilltop near Holmdel, New Jersey. This antenna can be steered in azimuth and elevation and was specially designed for studies of beyond-the-horizon radio propagation at frequencies of 460 mc and 4,000 mc. The electrical properties of the antenna and the technique of measurement are described; construction and mechanical details are discussed briefly."
"A method is given for the thickness measurement of p-type or n-type surface layers on semiconductors. This method requires the use of samples with optically flat and reflecting surfaces. The surface is lapped at a small angle in order to expose the p-n junction. After detecting and marking the p-n junction, the thickness is measured by an interference microscope. Another application of the equipment is the measurement of steps in a surface. The thickness range measurable is from 5  106 cm to 103 cm."
"The electric field and the hole and electron concentrations are found for reverse biased junctions in which one side is either intrinsic (I) or so weakly doped that the space charge of the carriers cannot be neglected. The analysis takes account of space charge, drift, diffusion and non linear recombination. A number of figures illustrate the penetration of the electric field into a PIN structure with increasing bias for various lengths of the I region. For the junction between a highly doped and a weakly doped region, the reverse current increases as the square root of the voltage at high voltages; and the space charge in the weakly doped region approaches a constant value that depends on the fixed charge and the intrinsic carrier concentration. The mathematics is greatly simplified by expressing the equations in terms of the electric field and the sum of the hole and electron densities."
"This paper discusses a traveling-wave amplifier which gives 30 db of gain at 5 watts output in the 5,925- to 6,425-mc common carrier band. A description of the tube and detailed performance data are given."
"Helix waveguide, composed of closely wound turns of insulated copper wire covered with a lossy jacket, shows great promise for use as a communication medium. The properties of this type of waveguide have been investigated using the sheath helix model. Modes whose wall currents follow the highly conducting helix have attenuation constants which are essentially the same as for copper pipe. The other modes have very large attenuation constants which depend upon the helix pitch angle and the electrical properties of the jacket. Approximate formulas are given for the propagation constants of the lossy modes. The circular electric mode important for longdistance communication has low loss for zero-pitch helices. The propagation constants of some of the lossy modes in helix waveguide of zero pitch have been calculated numerically, as functions of the jacket parameters and the guide size, in regions where the approximate formulas are no longer valid. Under certain conditions the attenuation constant of a particular mode may pass through a maximum as the jacket conductivity is varied."
"A wafer-type silicon point-contact rectifier and holder designed primarily for use as the first detector in millimeter wave receivers are described. Measurements made on a pilot production group of one hundred wafer rectifier units yielded the following average performance data at a wavelength of 5.4 millimeters: conversion loss, 7.2 db; noise ratio, 2.2; intermediate frequency output impedance 340 ohms. Methods of estimating the values of the circuit parameters of a point-contact rectifier are given in an Appendix."
"This paper gives a mathematical analysis of a heterodyne conversion transducer in which the nonlinear element is made up of a nonlinear resistor and a nonlinear capacitor in parallel. Curves are given showing the change in admittance and gain as the characteristics of the nonlinear elements are varied. The case where a conjugate match exists at the terminals is treated. It is shown that when the output frequency is greater than the input frequency, modulators having substantial gain and bandwidth are possible, but when the output frequency is less than the input frequency, the converter loss is greater than unity and is little affected by the nonlinear capacitor. The conditions under which a conjugate match is possible are specified and it is concluded that a nonlinear capacitor alone is the preferred element for modulators and that a nonlinear resistor alone gives the best performance in converters."
"A systematic procedure is presented for writing a Boolean function as a minimum sum of products. This procedure is a simplification and extension of the method presented by W. V. Quine. Specific attention is given to terms which can be included in the function solely for the designer's convenience."
"A method is presented for determining whether a Boolean function possesses any group invariance; that is, whether there are any permutations or primings of the independent variables which leave the function unchanged. This method is then extended to the detection of functions which are totally symmetric."
"The Swedish lloyal Academy of Sciences announced on Novomber I that a Nobel Prize in Physics, most highly coveted award in the world of physics, had been awarded jointly to Dr. Walter H. Brattain of the Laboratories Physical Research Department, with Dr. John Bardeen and Dr. William Shockley, both former members of the Laboratories. The prize was awarded for investigations on semiconductors and the discovery of the transistor effect."
"A description is given of the electrical properties of formed point contacts on germanium. A useful technique for observation of the equipotentials surrounding such contacts is described. The contrasting properties of donor-free and donor-doped contacts, used as diodes or transistor collectors are emphasized. It is shown that unformed point contacts (which have electrical properties largely determined by a surface barrier layer), may exhibit analogous differences. Such changes are produced by chemical treatments calculated to influence properties of a soluble germanium oxide film on the surface. The above information is applied to a study of transistor forming as it is done in present point-contact transistor processing. It is shown that high yields from the forming process can be expected on oxidized surfaces, and that chemical washes which remove soluble germanium oxide drastically lower forming yields. These and other effects are evaluated as sources of variability in forming yield."
"The design of tetrode transistor amplifiers encounters problems of the type that occurs with other transistor uses. Desired frequency characteristics, limitations of parasitic elements, and other practical considerations impose constraints on the range of terminations that can be employed. With many transistors, one can terminate a transistor so that it will oscillate without external feedback; this oscillation or other exceedingly sensitive terminations must be avoided. The two-port parameters of the transistor in any orientation in which it is to be used constitute the fixed or given information which is the starting point of the amplifier design. Using this starting point, methods are developed by which one can select, on simple bases, the kinds of terminations that will be suitable. To facilitate the design of amplifiers, a set of charts has been developed from which one can read power gain and input impedance as functions of the load termination. Illustrative tetrode amplifiers are described. These include a common base 20-mc video amplifier, a common-emitter 10-mc video amplifier, an IF amplifier centered at 30 mc, and an IF amplifier centered at 70 mc. Predicted and measured gains are compared."
"The non-linear operating characteristics of a traveling wave tube have been studied using a tube scaled to low frequency and large size. Measurements of electron beam velocity and current as a function of RF phase and amplitude show the mechanism of power saturation. The most important conclusions are: I. There is an optimum set of parameters (QC = 0.2 and  r0 = 0.5) giving the greatest efficiency. II. There is a best value of the gain parameter C which leads to a best efficiency of about 38 per cent. III. A picture of the actual spent beam modulation is now available which shows the factors contributing to traveling wave tube power saturation."
"A nonreciprocal ferrite device (field displacement isolator) has been constructed with reverse to forward loss ratios of about 150 in the region from 5,925 to 6,425 mc/sec. The forward loss is of the order of 0.2 db while the reverse loss is 30 db. These results are obtained by using a single ferrite element, spaced from the sidewall of the guide. The low forward loss suggests the existence of an electric field null at the location of a resistance strip on one face of the ferrite. We discuss the various conditions, derived theoretically, under which the electric field null may be obtained and utilized. Furthermore, a method of scaling is demonstrated which permits ready design to other frequencies."
"In a multi-mode transmission system the presence of spurious modes which resonate in a closed environment can produce an appreciable loss to the principal mode. The theory for the evaluation and control of this effect under certain conditions has been derived and checked experimentally in the particularly interesting case of a TE01 transmission system, where mode conversion to TE02, TE03  is produced by tapered junctions between two sizes of waveguide."
"A frequency-modulation radar technique especially suited to measurement of atmospheric attenuation at millimeter wavelengths is described. This two-way transmission method employs a single klystron, a single antenna and a set of spaced corner reflectors whose relative reflecting properties are known. Since the method does not depend on measurements of absolute antenna gains and power levels, absorption data can be obtained more readily and with greater accuracy than by the usual one-way transmission methods. Application of the method is demonstrated by measurements in the 5-mm to 6-mm wave band. The results have made it possible to assign an accurate value for the line-breadth constant of oxygen at atmospheric pressure; the constant appropriate to the measurements lies between 600 and 800 MCS per atmosphere."
"If the input symbols to a communication channel represent the outcomes of a chance event on which bets are available at odds consistent with their probabilities (i.e., fair odds), a gambler can use the knowledge given him by the received symbols to cause his money to grow exponentially. The maximum exponential rate of growth of the gambler's capital is equal to the rate of transmission of information over the channel. This result is generalized to include the case of arbitrary odds. Thus we find a situation in which the transmission rate is significant even though no coding is contemplated. Previously this quantity was given significance only by a theorem of Shannon's which asserted that, with suitable encoding, binary digits could be transmitted over the channel at this rate with an arbitrarily small probability of error."
"Conditions brought about by nationwide dialing increase intertoll trunk maintenance problems substantially. Under this switching plan with full automatic alternate routing there is a considerable increase in the amount of multiswitched business, and as many as eight intertoll trunks in tandem are permissible. In addition, operator checks of transmission on the connections are lost on most calls. These factors impose more severe limitations on transmission loss variations in the individual trunks and throw on the maintenance forces additional burdens of detecting defects in the distance dialing network. New methods of analyzing transmission performance to locate the points where maintenance effort will be most effective continue to be studied. The automatic testing arrangements described in this paper enable the maintenance forces to collect over-all transmission loss data quickly and with a minimum of effort. They also facilitate the collection of such data on groups of trunks in a form to make statistical analyses easier. The use of these testing arrangements will permit the maintenance forces to keep a closer watch on intertoll trunk performance and will assist in disclosing trouble patterns."
"Nearly all of the components of an intertoll trunk contribute in some degree to its variations in transmission loss. Automatic transmission regulating devices in carrier systems and in many voice-frequency systems control inherent variations in the intertoll trunk plant. These variations in transmission come mainly from unavoidable causes such as temperature changes. The success of these devices depends on how precisely the trunk is lined up and the manner in which the maintenance adjustments are made. When the nationwide dialing plan with automatic alternate routing is in full swing, maintenance requirements will be more severe because of the material increase in switched business and the number of possible links in tandem, and because operator checks will not be obtained on most calls. Therefore, the maintenance forces will have to keep closer watch on intertoll trunk transmission performance and insure that the necessary adjustments are made in the right places. This article discusses some of the maintenance techniques now used and suggests fields for further study."
"Silicon n-p-n transistors have been made in which the base and emitter regions were produced by diffusing impurities from the vapor phase. Transistors with base layers 3.8  104-cm thick have been made. The diffusion techniques and the processes for making electrical contact to the structures are described. The electrical characteristics of a transistor with a maximum alpha of 0.97 and an alpha-cutoff of 120 mc/sec are presented. The manner in which some of the electrical parameters are determined by the distribution of the doping impurities is discussed. Design data for the diffused emitter, diffused base structure is calculated and compared with the measured characteristics."
"Techniques of impurity diffusion and alloying have been developed which make possible the construction of p-n-p junction transistors utilizing a diffused surface layer as a base region. An important feature is the high degree of dimensional control obtainable. Diffusion has the advantages of being able to produce uniform large area junctions which may be utilized in high power devices, and very thin surface layers which may be utilized in high-frequency devices. Transistors have been made in germanium which typically have alphas of 0.98 and alpha-cutoff frequencies of 500 mc/s. The fabrication, electrical characterization, and design considerations of these transistors are discussed."
"Pulse techniques have been used for many waveguide testing purposes. The importance of increased resolution by means of short pulses has led to the development of equipment to generate, receive and display pulses about 5 or 6 millimicroseconds long. The equipment is briefly described and its resolution and measuring range are discussed. Dominant mode waveguide and antenna tests are described and illustrated. Applications to multimode waveguides are then considered. Mode separation, delay distortion and its equalization, and mode conversion are discussed, and examples are given. The resolution obtained with this equipment provides information that is difficult to get by any other means, and its use has proved to be very helpful in waveguide investigations."
"A simple device has been produced for regenerating binary pulses directly at microwave frequencies. To determine the capabilities of such devices one of them was included in a circulating test loop in which pulse groups were passed through the device a large number of times. Results indicate that even in the presence of serious noise and bandwidth limitations pulses can be regenerated many times and still show no noticeable deterioration. Pictures of circulated pulses are included which illustrate performance of the regenerator."
"Major toll switching features are being added to the crossbar tandem switching system for use at many of the important long distance switching centers of the nationwide network. These include automatic selection of one of several alternate routes to a particular destination, storing and sending forward digits as required, highly flexible code conversion for transmitting digits different from those received, and a translating arrangement to select the most direct route to a destination. The system is designed to serve both operator and customer dialed long distance traffic."
"This paper treats propagation of slaw waves in two-dimensional neutralized electron. flow in which all electrons have the same velocity in the direction of propagation but in which there are streams of two or more velocities normal to the direction of propagation. In a finite beam in which electrons are reflected elastically at the boundaries and in which equal dc currents are carried by electrons with transverse velocities"
"An analysis of coupled helices is presented, using the transmission line approach and also the field approach, with the objective of providing the tube designer and the microwave circuit engineer with a basis for approximate calculations. Devices based on the presence of only one mode of propagation are briefly described; and methods for establishing such a mode are given. Devices depending on the simultaneous presence of both modes, that is, depending on the beat wave phenomenon, are described; some experimental results are cited in support of the view that a novel and useful class of coupling elements has been discovered."
"Given two or more processes, the units from which fail in accordance with an exponential or delayed exponential law, the problem is to select the particular process with the smallest failure rate. It is assumed that there is a common guarantee period of zero or positive duration during which no failures occur. This guarantee period may be known or unknown. It is desired to accomplish the above goal in as short a time as possible without invalidating certain predetermined probability specifications. Three statistical techniques are considered for reducing the average experiment time needed to reach a decision. 1. One technique is to increase the initial number of units put on test. This technique will substantially shorten the average experiment time. Its effect on the probability of a correct selection is generally negligible and in some cases there is no effect. 2. Another technique is to replace each failure immediately by a new unit from the same process. This replacement technique adds to the book-keeping of the test, but if any of the population variances is large (say in comparison with the guarantee period) then this technique will result in a substantial saving in the average experiment time. 3. A third technique is to use an appropriate sequential procedure. In many problems the sequential procedure results in a smaller average experiment time than the best non-sequential procedure regardless of the true failure rates. The amount of saving depends principally on the distance between the smallest and second smallest failure rates. For the special case of two processes, tables are given to show the probability of a correct selection and the average experiment time for each of three types of procedures. Numerical estimates of the relative efficiency of the procedures are given by computing the ratio of the average experiment time for two procedures of different type with the same initial sample size and satisfying the same probability specification."
"A class of binary signaling alphabets called group alphabets is described. The alphabets are generalizations of Hamming's error correcting codes and possess the following special features: (1) all letters are treated alike in transmission; (2) the encoding is simple to instrument; (3) maximum likelihood detection is relatively simple to instrument; and (4) in certain practical cases there exist no better alphabets. A compilation is given of group alphabets of length equal to or less than 10 binary digits."
"Concentration, which is the process of connecting a number of telephone lines to a smaller number of switching paths, has always been a fundamental function in switching systems. By performing this function remotely from the central office, a new balance between outside plant and switching costs may be obtained which shows promise of providing service more economically in some situations. The broad concept of remote line concentrators is not new. However, its solution with the new devices and techniques now available has made the possibilities of decentralization of the means for switching telephone connections very promising. Three models of an experimental equipment have been designed and constructed for service. The models have included equipment to enable the evaluation of new procedures required by the introduction of remote line concentrators into the telephone plant. The paper discusses the philosophy, devices, and techniques."
"This paper describes the application of junction transistors to precision circuits for use in analog computers and the input and output circuits of digital systems. The three basic circuits are a summing amplifier, an integrator, and a voltage comparator. The transistor circuits are combined into a voltage encoder for translating analog voltages into equivalent time intervals."
"Properties of electrolyte-semiconductor barriers are described, with emphasis on germanium. The use of these barriers in localizing electrolytic etching is discussed. Other localization techniques are mentioned. Electrolytes for etching germanium and silicon are given."
"The non-linear behavior of the traveling-wave amplifier is calculated in this paper by numerically integrating the motion of the electrons in the presence of the circuit and the space charge fields. The calculation extends the earlier work by Nordsieck and the small-C theory by Tien, Walker and Wolontis, to include the space charge repulsion between the electrons and the effect of a finite coupling between the circuit and the electron beam. It however differs from Poulter's and Rowe's works in the methods of calculating the space charge and the effect of the backward wave. The numerical work was done using 701-type I.B.M. equipment. Results of calculation covering QC from 0.1 to 0.4, b from 0.46 to 2.56 and k from 1.25 to 2.50, indicate that the saturation efficiency varies between 23 per cent and 37 per cent for C equal to 0.1 and between 33 per cent and 40 per cent for C equal to 0.15. The voltage and the phase of the circuit wave, the velocity spread of the electrons and the fundamental component of the charge-density modulation are either tabulated or presented in curves. A method of calculating the backward wave is provided and its effect fully discussed."
"The theory of Cutler and Hines is extended in this paper to permit an analysis of beam-spreading in electron guns of high convergence. A lens correction for the finite size of the anode aperture is also included. The Culter and Hines theory was not applicable to cases where the effects of thermal velocities are large compared with those of space charge and it did not include a lens correction. Gun design charts are presented which include all of these effects. These charts may be conveniently used in choosing design parameters to produce a prescribed beam."
"Present toll trunk traffic engineering practices in the United States are reviewed, and various congestion formulas compared with data obtained on long distance traffic. Customer habits upon meeting busy channels are noted and a theory developed describing the probable result of permitting subscribers to have direct dialing access to high delay toll trunk groups. Continent-wide automatic alternate routing plans are described briefly, in which near no-delay service will permit direct customer dialing. The presence of non-random overflow traffic from high usage groups complicates the estimation of correct quantities of alternate paths. Present methods of solving graded multiple problems are reviewed and found unadaptable to the variety of trunking arrangements occurring in the toll plan. Evidence is given that the principal fluctuation characteristics of overflow-type of non-random traffic are described by their mean and variance. An approximate probability distribution of simultaneous calls for this kind of non-random traffic is developed, and found to agree satisfactorily with theoretical overflow distributions and those seen in traffic simulations. A method is devised using equivalent random traffic, which has good loss predictive ability under the lost calls cleared assumption, for a diverse field of alternate route trunking arrangements. Loss comparisons are made with traffic simulation results and with observations in exchanges. Working curves are presented by which multi-alternate route trunking systems can be laid out to meet economic and grade of service criteria. Examples of their application are given."
"Crosstalk on open-wire lines results from cross-induction between the circuits due to the electric and magnetic fields surrounding the wires. The limitation of crosstalk couplings to tolerahle magnitudes is achieved by systematically turning over or transposing the conductors that comprise the circuits. The fundamental theory underlying the engineering of such transposition arrangements was presented by A. G. Chapman in a paper entitled Open-Wire Crosstalk published in the Bell System Technical Journal in January and April, 1934."
"Interactions among defects in germanium and silicon have been investigated. The solid solutions involved bear a strong resemblance to aqueous solutions insofar as they represent media for chemical reactions. Such phenomena as acid-base neutralization, complex ion formation, and ion pairing, all take place. These phenomena, besides being of interest in themselves, are useful in studying the properties of the semiconductors in which they occur. The following article is a blend of theory and experiment, and describes developments in this field during the past few years."
"The zone-leveling process has been developed into a simple and effective tool, capable of growing large single crystals having high lattice perfection and containing an essentially uniform distribution of one or more desired impurities. Experimental work with germanium is discussed, and the possibility of broad application of the principles involved is indicated."
"Diffused p-n junction silicon rectifiers incorporating the feature of conductivity modulation are being developed. These rectifiers are made by the diffusion of impurities into thin wafers of high-resistivity silicon. Three development models with attractive electrical characteristics are described which have current ratings from 0 to 100 amperes with inverse peak voltages greater than 200 volts. These devices are attractive from an engineering standpoint since their behavior is predictable, one process permits the fabrication of an entire class of rectifiers, and large enough elements can be processed so that power dissipation is limited only by the packaging and mounting of the unit."
"A theory is given for the forward current-voltage characteristic of the PIN diffused junction silicon diode. The theory predicts that the device should obey a simple PN diode characteristic until the current density approaches 200 amp/cm2. At higher currents an additional potential drop occurs across the middle region proportional to the square root of the current. A moderate amount of recombination in the middle region has little effect on the characteristic. It is shown that the middle region cannot lead to anomalous characteristics at low currents."
"A laboratory model magnetic drum translator, capable of serving as a one-to-one alternative to the card translator, has been built to study the problems arising from the prospective use of microsecond pulse apparatus in a telephone office environment. Electron tube amplifiers and germanium diode logic circuits supplement the drum information storage unit to provide the functional operations required. Results of preliminary laboratory tests indicate the feasibility of equipment of this kind for telephone switching control."
"Five and seven place tables of the integral $B(x_c)={1 \\over \\pi} \\int_{x=0}^{x=x_c} \\log \\left\\vert {1+x \\over 1-x}\\right\\vert {dx \\over x}$ which gives the phase associated with a semi-infinite unit slope of attenuation, are now available in monograph form. The usefulness of this integral and its tabulation are discussed."
"The building now occupied by the Du Mont Telecentre was formerly the Central Opera House of New York. This paper describes in detail the process of altering the more than 80-year-old building to fit the needs of a modern TV broadcasting station and explains why this building was selected by Du Mont. The paper describes the electronic equipment used in the Telecentre and architectural problems met and solved before the equipment was installed."
"This paper deals with the problem of establishing a method for the commercial production of slides which will give good and reliable reproduction on TV chains aligned to an accepted and recognized standard, such as the SMPTE Test Film. It describes the production method developed by a Canadian firm, Williams & Hill, Ltd., based on a series of experimental tests made with the cooperation of the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. The tests were carried out on chains aligned to the SMPTE Test Film, and the slides used were specially produced for the purpose."
"The expression for gamma of tricolor picture tubes is derived and analyzed for its correlations with the various gun design parameters. The two methods of compensation for the different RBG-phosphor efficiencies (utilizing unequal drives and equal cutoff voltages for the triple gun or employing equal drives and unequal cutoff voltages) are discussed. The influence of manufacturing tolerances on gamma and the necessary gamma equalization are described. Gun designs are discussed which facilitate the utilization of equal drives on all three guns. The conclusion is derived that a gun triplet with different spacings in the triode may present a realistic solution."
"Five methods of measuring some aspect of scene luminance or illumination have been used in connection with photographing sixteen sunlit, outdoor scenes. An exposure series was made for each scene on two motion-picture negative films. By comparing the exposures which yielded optimum print quality with those indicated by the five different exposure-meter techniques, each technique was evaluated, and the consistency with which high-quality results could be obtained was determined."
"Changes are being made among the highest emulsion speed 16mm films supplied by the Eastman Kodak Co. for high-speed motion-picture photography. During the past year films having improved speed-graininess-definition properties have become available. Some of the older films are being discontinued. Sensitometric test data are presented showing the speed relationship of these films to one another for various conditions of use and the speed and quality relationships found in practical high-speed picture tests are discussed."
"This paper explains how the changeover from black-and-white to color affected studio lighting at WBAP-TV. The number of watts per square foot for studio floor space was increased from 18.5 to approximately 60. The air-conditioning capacity was almost doubled. A light level of 400 ft-c was found to be practical. Recognizing that methods of operation vary from studio to studio, the author is not suggesting that methods found satisfactory at WBAP-TV could be applied with equal success to all studios, but some helpful ideas may be gained from a review of the experience of one studio."
"Since this list, originally organized by Carlos Connio Santini, was published in the February 1956 Journal we have received a number of comments, additions and corrections from readers. Suggested improvements, additions or variant terms having some currency have been received from J.-M. Fred Jeannot, of Fred Jeannot, 86 Rue de Svres, Paris 7; Raymond Spinnox, of Gevaert Photo-Producten, Mortsel (Antwerpen), Belgium; and Jean Vivi, of the Commission Suprieure Technique, 92 Ave. des Champs-lyses, Paris 8. The suggested additions and variants to the list of French terms are shown below. Later, if some other commitments to provide additional Spanish and Portuguese versions are fulfilled, a complete revised list will be printed. Until then, readers may wish to edit their original copies with the terms given here. Page numbers refer to the February Journal in which the original listing may be found. Victor Volmar, Latin American Manager for Allied Artists International Corp., has called to our attention a similar but more comprehensive glossary (excluding Spanish) which is described in the Journal, August, 1956, p. 450.Ed."
"A powered tracking mount for rocket and guided missile photography has been developed at the U.S. Naval Ordnance Test Station, China Lake, Calif., as previously described in this Journal.1 This mount, designated as the M-45 Gooney-Bird, has now been further improved through the addition of direction- indicating equipment. The design and development of an electronic illumination control for this direction-indicating and recording system are described in this article."
"A brief review is made of tubes currently used in television camera systems and of tubes which have been found basically unsuitable for color camera work. General requirements of tubes for color television pickup are discussed, and basic performance characteristics that limit the pickup field to several tubes for color television are evaluated. The performance characteristics of vidicons and image orthicons now used are compared with the required characteristics. Quality problems encountered in color pickup are discussed, and methods used to overcome these problems are described. Operating devices used to improve performance are evaluated."
"The approach to the problem of lighting control equipment design resolves itself into two basic areas, that of switching and that of dimming. Switching involves the ability to connect any lighting loads in the studio to any dimmer. Dimming involves the ability to modify the intensity of any of the lights in a convenient manner. This paper describes some of the equipment and methods by which this is accomplished."
"Over the range of greatest interest in photography, the candlepower and color temperature of tungsten lamps may be calculated with satisfactory precision by the use of simple exponential equations. Detailed examples are given which illustrate the application of these equations. The constants and exponents in these equations have been determined for several commonly used lamps. These have been arranged in a set of tables designed for convenient reference."
"The requirements for image analysis of Eastman Embossed Kinescope Recording Film, Type 5209, are discussed. The actual distribution of density of the embossed film image is shown. The optical requirements necessary to analyze these images are similar to those used in projection. It is further shown that these requirements can be made by a comparatively simple modification of a Westrex Densitometer. The results of sensitometric evaluation of satisfactory color images measured on this modified instrument are shown."
"Ring-type magnetic recording and reproducing heads are contacted by the abrasive medium, and hence their useful life is shortened by wear, replaceable pole tip cap consists of a pair of brass holders in which the laminated tips of the cores are plasticized. The cap is fastened to the main housing assembly by means of two 172 screws, and locating pins are employed to assure correct azimuth on the part of the precision-aligned pole cap."
"Many color photographs are taken in daylight and projected with tungsten lamps. On the other hand, commercial motion pictures made with tungsten studio lamps are almost always projected with arcs that resemble daylight. Color-television receivers produce white of daylight quality or even bluer, although most of the scenes televised are tungsten-lighted. Hence the question: How should a color in one quality of illumination be reproduced for viewing with some other quality? An investigation undertaken to answer this question will be described, and the results will be discussed.  The simple answer suggested by Von Kries's law of coefficients appears to be only a first approximation. Closer analysis of the behavior of the eye seems to indicate that human color vision is served by at least four, and probably by five or even six, different photosensitive processes, having different spectral sensitivities and different degrees of adaptation to various qualities of illumination.  These findings do not call into question the trichromatic character of color perception, on which color photography and color television are based. Apparently the visual nervous system provides only three channels, capable of handling only three independent responses. But each of these responses appears to be stimulated by a combination of two or more photosensitive processes in the eye."
"Using a new type of high efficiency rear-projection screen, a 40-ft wide projected color picture can now be photographed on standard Eastman Color Negative Film, Type 5248, with the camera operating at f/4 at 24 frames/sec. Data are presented on the transmission and reflectance characteristics of this new screen, together with data on several other experimental screens which have wide-angle and high-transmission characteristics."
"It is customary to use continuous replenishment in a motion-picture processing machine to maintain a constant chemical composition in each of the processing solutions. This necessitates the mixing of large volumes of replenisher, and the continuous overflow of solution from each machine tank. As the overflow solution is discarded, expensive chemicals are lost. Since developer chemicals constitute a large portion of processing costs, a method of recovering or reusing the developer overflow would result in reduced costs. This paper describes a method of decreasing replenishment costs for Eastman Color Print and Eastman Color Negative developers by recovering overflow developer using an ion-exchange method."
"Knowledge of the relationship between printer light and log E values is necessary for accurate color timing. Information relating color-correction or intensity-changing filters to log E values is also needed. A method suitable for the calibration of both additive and subtractive motion-picture printers is given."
"Five new color video components have been developed in the continuing CBS progress toward compact, plug-in television studio equipment. This paper describes the design and operating characteristics of a newly designed color video distribution amplifier, a color video relay switcher and a regulated power supply. These newly designed pieces of equipment are characterized by not only unusual performance but also by their stability, simplicity, quick replacement, case of maintenance and economy of space."
"Because network programming usually includes greater scope of subject material than is possible on local stations, the lighting of these programs also presents a greater variety of problems. The lighting of larger areas and the variations of this lighting to accentuate a wide variety of moods and camera angles become of paramount importance. The technique developed in lighting network programs uses interesting combinations of all types of lighting equipment and a wide range of wattages to obtain the balance and the intensities necessary for the cameras while operating within the dramatic structure. These techniques and methods are discussed."
"In the development of color camera matching techniques it was found inadvisable to use colored paper or other opaque material illuminated by direct front projection. The reasons are: (1) illumination of the test chart is extremely critical in obtaining the exact values of each color chip on a day-to-day basis; and (2) generally, stable color papers do not have the degree of reproducibility in manufacture and the degree of saturation required for precise measurement purposes. A color camera alignment and matching technique has been developed using 8  10 transparent slides of both black-and-white and color. This technique required that the source of illumination for the slides be of the proper brightness and spectral response normally encountered on a live set."
"The Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers has over a period of years shown a marked interest in educational problems relating to the industry. The first publication in the Journal resulting from a formal Society effort was the Frayne report on college courses in motion-picture subjects, which appeared in the August 1946 Journal. This was followed later by the Morrison report which appeared in September 1950. As a result of continuing inquiry from students and members of the Society for further information and guidance in the fields of motion-picture and television engineering the Society in 1955 decided to establish a committee on education. This was further formalized by the passage of a constitutional amendment in October 1955 which added to the objects of the Society: Guidance of students and the attainment of high standards of education."
"The previous convention of the Society in Los Angeles was held just two years ago; and the one before that, in April 1953. We all recall the record attendance of more than 1300 at the 1953 meeting and the intense interest generated then in technological developments. At that time 3-D was going strong, stereophonic sound had just been introduced and anamorphotic cinematography was being seriously proposed."
"Automation is being applied in many fields of manufacturing and production. It can help us in the art of sound recording for motion pictures and television. In this paper the writer explains a simplified system of automation and discusses the transition from the old to the new."
"In View of the fact that many in this audience are friends of long standing, I trust that I will be forgiven for an informal way of presenting some of the results of my thinking about the 16mm industry over a period of several years during which it was necessary for me to work in another field, that of aerial photography."
"This paper discusses methods of obtaining positive silver soundtracks on reversal color films. Data are given concerning the requirements of negatives and copy negatives for soundtrack printing, exposure balance recommendations, and densitometry on Eastman Reversal Color Print Film, Type 5269."
"Some of the history of scene-change cuing in professional motion-picture printing is given. Advantages and difficulties inherent in the various techniques are discussed. Methods are described for greatly improving the conductive-patch scene-change cuing technique. The accuracy of the edge-notch and conductive-path scene-change cuing systems is demonstrated. A pulse-delay mechanism is described which makes notch covering or cue replacement unnecessary."
"A modern postive-negative color developing installation built around the Arri Color Machine has recently been completed by Byron, Inc. This installation makes extensive use of polyvinyl chloride plastics both in machine design and auxiliary equipment. Before the new equipment, including chemical mix, control and developing sections, could be added to the laboratory, extensive alterations were made in an existing building."
"A single-system camera method has been devised for simultaneously recording high-fidelity magnetic 16mm soundtrack lip-synchronized with an optical picture, for magnetic 16mm single-system sound recording of live-pickup reproduction quality, instant monitoring of the sound-track being recorded in the camera, together with greatly increased flexibility of picture-processing."
"The use of 3-V Film Cameras to provide high-quality color TV reproduction of color opaques has brought new requirements for lighting sources. These must cover uniformly a limited field at light levels of the order of 10,000 ft-c. Such levels are currently in use for monochrome TV reproduction of opaques. Various methods of obtaining adequate illumination for color are compared."
"A proposed revision of American Standard Z22.40-1950 is published here for a three-month period of trial and criticism."
"Problems in underwater observation are outlined to permit an appraisal of the usefulness of television applied to this field. The advantages and limitations of television are presented and an attempt is made to draw up ideal specifications. A general purpose camera based upon this specification is described. The problems of lighting and application are discussed and future trends in design are suggested."
"The concept of effective weight is developed as a means of rating reels according to their relative film-damaging potential. Useful relationships between size, capacity, stiffness, weight, and effective weight are presented for all 16mm reel sizes. The importance of a large ratio of core diameter to outside diameter for the reel is stressed. Some standardization proposals and design features of the projector for use with large reels are suggested."
"Bearings for high-speed motion-picture film-processing machines have always presented unique engineering problems. These problems became more serious and more difficult to overcome upon the introduction of color films because of the higher corrosive properties of certain color film processing solutions. Extended tests on a variety of bearing types led to the development of a two-piece, deep-groove ball bearing with a No. 316 (188) stainless-steel retainer that has low-friction and excellent life characteristics when operated in either black-and-white or color film processing solutions."
"Many plastics provide excellent chemical resistance and ease of fabrication. Their flexibility, low joint strength and heat distortion require special consideration in machine design. Utilizing hot impinged air drying and compactness, AirLab has built a 16mm, black-and-white, negative-positive machine using Uscolite, Epon, Tygon, Nylon and Neoprene to make racks, piping, elevators, special valves, sheaves and tank linings simply and at low cost. Results indicate the suitability of some of these materials in a color machine."
"An improved method and apparatus for butt-welding and butt-splicing of polyester film base and standard triacetate film base have been developed on the principle of a combination of a controlled heat and cooling gradient applied under pressure within a given time cycle. Butt-welded similar types of bases and a method of butt-splicing by the use of an additional high-temperature transparent adhesive sliver are described, and also the combination of both methods used simultaneously"
"Official TV programs were initiated only three years ago in Germany and so it was possible to install magnetic instead of optical sound, from the start. Magnetic sound techniques in TV film operation are described."
"A luminescent coating deposited as a grainless layer avoids the diffusely scattered light associated with a conventional powder phosphor in television tubes. Such transparent phosphor screens of zinc sulfide can be made by a vapor phase reaction as will be described. With a screen of this kind, higher resolution and contrast are possible. Phosphor layers produced in this way may also be used as light amplifying screens."
"Increasing use of film for color telecasting has emphasized the need for a more critical view of the capabilities of both the film and the TV system, and for a greater understanding of the colorimetric behavior of the combination. Film and TV picture requirements are considered introductory to the principles of improved masking techniques."
"The major work in the field of printing exposure determination is reviewed, and a bibliography is included. A new concept in the use of integrated transmittance in automatically determining printing exposures for color materials is discussed. This method entails the use of an optimum correction level for any given negative or transparency population. This correction level is a compromise between the incompatible correction requirements of various segments of the population."
"Timing of color negatives for release printing has proved to be a tedious, time-consuming, and expensive operation in motion-picture laboratories. Based on methods of exposure determination for printing amateur, still, color negatives, a simple and rapid method has been developed for automatic timing of color negatives. The integrated transmissions to red, green and blue light of the color negative are measured on a full-frame densitometer for a large number of scenes having a wide gamut of subject matter. These integrated transmissions are statistically correlated, scene by scene, to the printer lights that produced acceptable color prints from the color negatives. From these correlations the printer lights that will produce color-balanced prints may be predicted within certain limits from the full-frame, integrated, transmission measurements of an unknown negative. While the color balance of the first print produced by this method may not be considered optimum, the print is close enough to optimum that a skilled color timer can produce a color-balanced print on the second or third trial. Results of a trial at Ace Film Laboratories showed the method to be practical."
"A comprehensive modernization program of 35mm projection and sound equipment has been executed for its 120theater military circuit by the Far East Army and Air Force Motion Picture Service. High standards of performance capabilities consistent with limitations imposed by available facilities and film product for overseas areas were established. To meet the concept requirements of quality professional equipment operated by nonprofessional servicemen projectionists, some original designs have been achieved in modification of existing commercial equipment and development where no counterpart has been available from trade supply sources."
"This report outlines the considerations involved in the design and interpretation of experiments to evaluate plastic materials for use in contact with photographic processing solutions. Some of these considerations are: selection of plastic surface-area-to-volume ratio, preparation of the plastic sample for testing, designing the photographic evaluation, and interpreting the results in a nonstatistical manner. Information is also included summarizing the results of similar tests which have been run."
"Methods of fabricating dot fluorescent screens for color television mask-type tubes are summarized, and the dot size control factors associated with the different methods are explored. Special emphasis is given to screening factors for focus mask-type tubes which have high-transmission masks. The tube and mask geometry is studied, and the effect of light-intensity gradients across the dot image as a function of light source size is considered. From these studies, and a knowledge of the physical characteristics of the binder and phosphor materials, an optical method of dot-size control is developed using photographic exposure time and light source size as the parameters. Lastly, annulus-shaped light exposure sources are considered and are shown to produce images having improved size control characteristics."
"The subjective phase of tone reproduction requires a knowledge of how the eye reacts, that is, the visual response under a given set of conditions. Two instruments which have proven useful for obtaining this knowledge are a visual sensitometer and an adaptometer. The particular response investigated and reported is the luminance of subjective black, which may be defined as that value of luminance which is just too low to produce a perceptible visual impression under the luminance distribution existing in the scene being viewed. A fairly simple empirical scheme is proposed for predicting the luminance of subjective black from two easily measured quantities: the luminance of the fixation point and the average scene luminance."
"The continuing need for a more efficient intelligence system in the modern Army is focusing attention on television as a basic means of communication. This paper summarizes some of the proposed applications for military television in combat, describes types of current iterim mobile television units, and presents recent maneuver utilization of two units."
"Listener preference rankings of selected samples of programs containing many types of flutter will be compared to measurements of the same flutter using a meter weighted with respect to flutter rate in accordance with the threshold of perceptibility. It is shown that the correct weighting curve varies with the level of flutter and that modification should be made to the flutter meter in order to obtain objective rankings of various types of flutter which will agree with subjective rankings of program containing the same type of flutter."
"A color film for making 16mm motion-picture internegatives from Kodachrome and other reversal originals is described. From these internegatives, release prints on color positive film, such as Eastman Color Print Film, Type 7382, can be produced. The internegative film contains colored couplers to provide masking for improvement in color reproduction. The structure of the film and its processing, sensitometric and printing characteristics are described."
"Recovery of silver from fixing baths and consequent prolongation of the useful life of solution can be accomplished by simple electrolysis using currents of 150175 ma. These methods are ineffective in an installation processing large quantities of film because silver deposited in the solution soon exceeds the recovery rate. Various physical-chemical expedients, combined with electrolysis, were tried, these being such as would allow the use of higher currents while preserving the integrity of the thiosulfate ion. These tests have led to the development of a small, flexible and efficient silver recovery unit which makes possible significant savings in chemicals and recovered silver."
"The performance of typical carbon arcs suitable for TV studio lighting, particularly for special effects on stage and for process projection in both black-and-white and color TV are described. Color modified carbons, the light from which can be mixed with that from other types of light sources, with little or no filtering, are emphasized."
"Procedures outlined in this paper will attempt to compare black-and-white and color TV. Some procedures were developed and tested on a theoretical basis; others evolved after practical experience in color TV production. These techniques and procedures are offered with the intent of making commonplace the means for presenting creative color pictures which satisfy existing technical standards."
"Photographic processing involves many individual chemical processes, such as assuring adequate quality of chemicals, determining optimum storage conditions for these chemicals before and after solution preparation, assuring the maintenance of standard chemical concentrations, and trouble shooting. Illustrations are given showing how the principles of chemistry and chemical engineering applied to the processing of motion-picture film might result in low cost with high photographic quality of the products."
"High temperatures on sets increase production costs. The use of heat-control coatings in Fresnel lens spotlamps can reduce set heat due to lighting by at least 50%. Modifications of spotlamps to achieve this result are described. These make it possible to aim most of the infrared rays away from the set toward the roof or upper walls of a stage where heat is more easily removed. The diversion of infrared radiation in this manner reduces set temperatures and increases the comfort of actors and crew."
"The primary reason for multiplexing TV film cameras and TV film projectors is economy of equipment and/or space. A further reason can be the insurance of stand-by protection, at nominal cost, when continuity of programming assumes high importance. The optical multiplexer described here satisfies both requirements when integrated into a TV film pickup system. Design parameters and operation are discussed."
"New afocal anamorphic systems with cylindrical mirrors are described. Image quality and distortion are discussed. Means of compensating the upward horizon distortion resulting from downward projection on a curved screen are given."
"At the present time the cinema industry is in the midst of changes which are almost as revolutionary as the introduction of talking pictures in the 1920's."
"The Lenses used in motion-picture cameras are almost invariably of wide relative aperture and the sharpness of the recorded film images must permit very considerable magnification onto large viewing screens."
"The rise of the theatrical motion picture from a slot machine to one of the world's great arts was watched by a hopeful group of educators with feelings of delight, then dismay and finally frustration. They, of course, were delighted with the film's educational possibilities but dismayed by the endless parade of tawdry pictures and, in the end, frustrated, because, while believing Bernard Shaw's Fine art is the only teacher, except torture, they failed to induce education to embrace the fine art of the film."
"Methods for making visible a magnetic recording on tape are described. The effect of permanent fields added to the tape magnetization in different directions is shown to prove that the tape magnetization has a prevailing longitudinal character. The method has been refined to provide a resolving power down to a wavelength of less than 0.4 mil, i.e., the bias frequency at 30 ips tape speed, and an exact azimuth measurement within 1 minute of arc."
"Television programs in color are now being produced regularly by major broadcasting companies, and the corresponding signals are being transmitted over both the local and intercity facilities of the Bell System to color TV transmitters. Although much publicity has been given to the advent of this rather astonishing new development, most of the articles have been either highly technical or intended for the newspapers. They have not provided an understanding of the system for intelligent engineers who are not able to devote sufficient time to the subject to master the more obscure technical details. This article is intended to fill a need felt in many quarters to answer a number of questions which have arisen concerning the generation of the signals and the manner in which they are used to produce a color picture."
"The spray application of developing solutions sensitive to oxidation requires that an inert spray atmosphere be used. Methods are described to accomplish this relatively simply and inexpensively. Experimental studies have been made of spray nozzle arrays for a variety of processing conditions. The factors that may affect the design of spray processing machines are discussed."
"Acceleration due to gravity, g, was experimentally determined using the technique of micromotion analysis of high-speed motion-picture film taken of a steel sphere in free fall. Three methods of film analysis were compared with an independently calculated value of g. The analyses used and the error they produced were as follows: graphical, 6%; graphical-analytical, 1%; and analytical, 2%. For all of these experiments, a Bausch & Lomb Contour Measuring Projector was used"
"Unusual set treatment and lighting techniques are employed in producing a costume film using many actors and sets. The use of light-control techniques in this filming by Academy Award winner Boris Kaufman in place of conventional optical fades is described, Simple stylized sets further aided in spanning 50 years gracefully in a 30-min film."
"Economic, operational and engineering aspects of recent changes in major studio production practices brought about by wide-screen presentations are analyzed. Written remarks for Convention presentation were prepared by Loren L. Ryder, Paramount Pictures Corp., West Coast Studios, 5451 Marathon St., Hollywood 38; and by Earl I. Sponable, Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corp., 444 W. 56 St., New York 19. After these there follows the open discussion, somewhat condensed, which took place at Lake Placid, N. Y., on October 3, 1955."
"If television studio practices are controlled, using the transmission waveform as the guide, consistent kinescope recording quality can be maintained. The waveform approach must be one which takes into account both peak-to-peak voltage conditions and waveform area balance. Inclusion of reference black and white in all possible shots will ensure consistent picture voltages to the kinescope recorder and permit retention of mood when the recording is reproduced. Careful attention to tonal balance of shots will produce balanced waveform areas. This is essential to stable reproduction on receivers not equipped with d-c restoration."
"The system for recording of motion pictures in high quality on film combines the apparatus and techniques of television broadcasting studio practices with high-quality motion-picture film mechanisms for both 16mm and 35mm film in black-and-white and color. Details of the system and its methods of use are described. The particular apparatus for both the 16mm and 35mm versions is discussed.  Multiple-camera operation with simultaneous recording on the several films is monitored and controlled by television viewfinders so that the crew and program director may shoot continuously and rapidly in the manner of television broadcast control of multiple cameras, with a resultant direct high-quality film recording.  The assembly of the final master program is expedited by the director's constant planning and observation of the results of the several cameras as portrayed for him on television monitors, from which he calls for the desired take shots which are video switched to a final program monitor whose signals are simultaneously being recorded on a teletranscription cutting-guide film which serves as a cutting master for assembling the finished film product with a great saving of time."
"In color video switching equipment, the nature of the encoded signal requires that particular care be taken to achieve, over the frequency band, constant amplitude and delay, low differential gain and phase, and low crosstalk. Furthermore, performance must be independent of the number of output circuits connected to a particular input bus. Equipment meeting these requirements has been operating in CBS color-television studios in New York and Hollywood since August 1954. The objectives were achieved by adding back-contact loading to maintain constant capacitance on each input bus, by compensating this capacitance with loading coils in each input bus, by reducing capacitance coupling through contacts, and by minimizing distortion in output coupling amplifiers."
"THE ANSWER to the general question, Are we educating by television? is a definite yes despite much skeptical insistence to the contrary. As an educator, I should be standing before you with my head bowed in shame if the answer were anything else. Educators today have no choice in the matter, and we would be derelict in our duty if we failed to accept our fair share of responsibility to see to it that this newest medium of mass communication is used for something more than entertainment."
"THE OPPORTUNITY for organizing a concerted effort in the behalf of educational television arose from the so-called freeze in the construction of television stations which began in September 1948. TV broadcasting, whose early beginnings are traced back to the opening of the New York World's Fair in 1939, began to show a lusty growth pattern immediately after the war. It soon became apparent that the channels allocated for television usage were not sufficient to provide for a truly competitive national television service. It also became apparent that early technical criteria as to the propagation of television signals were based on inadequate information. To correct these important difficulties, the Federal Communications Commission decreed a freeze in new construction in 1948 and began a study of a new allocation plan."
"THE EDUCATIONAL Television and Radio Center is what the name implies, a Center for educational television stations-a Center in the sense of a national program exchange and also in the sense of a national program supplier."
"The method of measuring resolving power and the factors that influence the measured value are first described. The concept of acutance, which is an objective quantity that correlates with sharpness, is then explained. Experiments have shown that no unique correlation exists between definition, which is the quality aspect of a photograph that is associated with the clarity of detail, and either resolving power or acutance. A good correlation was found between acutance and definition, provided the resolving power was greater than about twice that of the eye for the conditions under which the photographs were viewed. A correlation with acutance was also found for lower values of resolving power when the acutance was weighted with a suitable function whose parameters depend on the resolving power and the conditions of viewing."
"When reduction prints are made by a process involving duplicating positives and negatives, the size reduction can be made at any convenient stage. Color prints have been prepared from color negatives at a reduction of two to one and ranked for definition. The reduction was made at a different stage for each print, and it was found that, for best definition, the reduction should be postponed to as late a stage in the process as is feasible."
"To improve definition in wide-screen cinematography, negatives are often made with a frame size larger than standard. The result is to decrease the depth of field in proportion to the first power of the linear dimensions of the negative unless the lens aperture is made smaller. This reduction in depth is less than when a close-up is made on a standard negative with the same camera magnification, in which case the loss is proportional to the square of the camera magnification; it is for this situation that the usual tables are computed. The depth of field can be restored by increasing the f-number correspondingly in any case, but this introduces lighting problems. Increasing the size of the screen without changing the size of the negative also decreases the depth of field proportionately to the increase in screen size. This effect is superposed on the change in depth of field arising from a change in negative size."
"Electronic printing has been an important step in recent years in improving 16mm sound quality, particularly in Kodachrome and television films. Using variable density and supersonic bias, an electronic (or electrical) print shows increased signal level, increased signal-to-noise ratio and sharp decrease in intermodulation distortion. With good laboratory control and recording-equipment operational control, close tolerances can be achieved and maintained, thereby ensuring excellent and consistent quality."
"At the 1955 SMPTE Convention at Chicago, a method of recording television images on black-and-white film was described. At that time, certain difficulties regarding light efficiency, noise and image definition were yet to be resolved. In the last year, refinements have been made in the electronic and optical characteristics of the system to the extent that the overall picture quality now compares very favorably with that obtainable on 16mm color film. This paper is concerned with a discussion of how these refinements were achieved."
"In the past, a special form of black-and-white film, with tiny cylindrical lenses embossed in its base, has been employed in conjunction with a banded color filter for additive color photography. Such film is readily adaptable to color kinescope recording, and in this application the banded filter is not required. Color aspects of the problem can be left to the television system. The advantages of color kinescope recording on embossed film include economy, faithful color reproduction, high efficiency and rapid film processing. The latter is particularly important in meeting the demands of time-zone-delayed broadcasting, or quick kine. Prints for subsequent distribution can be made on ordinary subtractive color films."
"Magnetic transducers for 4-track release prints have a limited life due to wear of the magnetic gaps, and, in the theater field, the economic aspect of continued replacement becomes significant. A transducer is described in which the working gaps and wearing surfaces are replaceable units."
"Printing from Ansco color negative onto Ansco positive is relatively simple, but it does require certain changes in technique, equipment and timing. These requirements are described. The technique of timing for color printing with color correction filters is described with particular attention to some of the reasons why anticipated results are not always attained."
"Adsorbed thiosulfates may be effectively eliminated from films by the use of salt solutions. The salts may be employed in the wash water, as when washing with sea water, or as a separate bath previous to washing. The rate of elimination is largely controlled by the anion, and monovalent anions such as acetate and chloride are less effective than polyvalent anions such as sulfate, sulfite, phosphate and citrate.  These principles are incorporated in the Kodak Hypo Clearing Agent (K.H.C.A.). The effectiveness of this bath is most striking with films fixed in strongly hardening alum fixing baths and washed in cold water. Under these conditions, it is not unusual for the hypo to be reduced to 1% of that left by washing alone for equal periods. The results obtained when this product is applied to machine, spray, and rewind processing of motion-picture films, microfilms and aerial films are described. In general, savings are effected in both the time required and the water consumed, while very low levels of residual hypo are attained."
"The Television Studio Lighting Committee agreed at its meeting at Chicago, April 21, 1955, that information on black-and-white lighting practices of television stations would be of help in furthering committee projects. The Midwest Regional Subcommittee was then assigned to conduct a survey of 341 stations in 25 States, the results of the survey to be presented at a lighting symposium to be held in the Spring of 1956."
"A survey of current lighting practices of TV stations engaged in live color origination was requested by the Television Studio Lighting Committee of the SMPTE. Seven major categories were covered: General, Studios, Lighting Materials, Personnel, Instrumentation, Make-up, and Miscellaneous. The main purpose of the survey was to determine the areas where independent and affiliated stations could benefit from assistance and advice. It was planned that after these areas were defined, SMPTE Lighting Subcommittees would be assigned specific areas for investigation."
"1955 was not a year of revolutionary change in the motion-picture and television industry. However, it soon becomes evident, especially to anyone working on a report of this type, that it was a busy year and that many new items and improvements were made. Several interesting reports came from countries outside the United States and they are included in rather full detail because for many this will offer the only chance to become familiar with these activities."
"If the visual angle subtended by an object is varied, at by varying the viewing distance, the appearance of the object may also change. Appropriate comparisons can reveal obvious changes as in perceived size, perceptible detail, eye-comfort, apparent color and realistic effect. There are, however, a number of factors in commercial motion-picture viewing situations which tend to minimize differential effects of visual angle on motion-picture perceptions."
"A lightweight double-frame motion-picture camera has recently been developed for use on locations which require extreme portability. It weighs only 17${1\\over 2}$ complete with motor and a loaded 400-ft film magazine. A positive registration movement provides steady operation equal to that obtained with the heavier duty VistaVision cameras. Dependable operation is being obtained with a minimum of maintenance. Lenses from 28mm to 150mm are provided."
"This paper deals with the striping process which has been applied since 1950 to substandard film and since 1953 to CinemaScope film. A shoe is used, with striping orifices through which constant width stripes are deposited, their thickness resulting from the angle at which the film leaves the shoe. All such orifices are on the same shoe, ensuring, particularly for CinemaScope striping, a positively fixed distance between the centerlines of the stripes."
"Presenting and transmitting a color commercial during the station break seemed at first no problem because there were available 35mm slides, color film and the live color camera. However, experience during some 400 color programs transmitted through this station  several hundred hours originating from NBC network and the balance originating in this station's own studios  showed that none of these methods of handling the station break was entirely satisfactory. The solution to this problem for WTMJ-TV was found in its new Colorbal unit."
"Proposed revision of the American Standard on Photographic Sound Record on 16mm Prints, Z22.411946, now referred to as PH22.41, is published here for a three-month period of trial and criticism."
"The chief purpose of this test procedure is to classify insulation systems in accordance with their temperature limits by test, rather than by chemical composition. The intention is, first, to classify according to the recognized A, B and H categories, whose usual continuous hot-spot temperatures are 105, 130 and 180C, respectively. Second, to ascertain whether it is appropriate to change the present hot-spot temperatures for certain applications. It is not the intention to use this procedure at present to define any new or intermediate insulation classes."
"Presents the title page of the proceedings record."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"The twentieth volume of the Digest of the Literature on Dielectrics covers literature published during the calendar year 1956. The material was gathered by the authors mainly from engineering and scientific journals. However, many books, or pertinent chapters in books, are digested, and occasional reference is made to papers given at scientific meetings and PhD theses. The Digest is a voluminous source of reference material, and affords the researcher with a convenient means of keeping abreast of important events in both fields of special and general interest."
"Perhaps the most important trend, though it is not the most obvious, has been a desire to learn more about the fundamental properties of existing solids, with a complementary application of the knowledge acquired to the creation of new dielectrics with special properties. New high temperature and high frequency dielectrics are urgently required and in 1956, development was advanced by adaptations of existing materials to meet new specifications. The reporting of high temperature dielectrics work is rather slow, since there are many purely mechanical problems yet to be solved before the electrical problems can be tackled, and the great activity in this field is not faithfully reflected by the literature. Although some research has been reported at fairly high temperatures, the fundamental knowledge of the behavior of dielectrics at really high temperatures is still very sketchy."
"A companion volume to the Handbook of Microwave Measurements published In 1955 has been compiled by members of the staff of the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn. The new Handbook of Electronic Measurements edited by Wind (1) is an excellent treatise on the subject and should find wide acceptance as a valuable basic reference book. Dielectric measurements are not specifically considered, but many of the basic problems encountered in dielectric measurements are discussed. Chapters are devoted to electromagnetic fundamentals, voltage, current, impedance and power measurements; frequency, time interval and phase measurements; field intensity, bandwidth, gain, noise figure and stability measurements; and several chapters on related subjects, including one on oscillographic observation of waveforms."
"The following tables of dielectric constants and dipole moments contain values reported in Chemical Abstracts during the year 1956. The table of dielectric relaxation times contains values reported since the previous compilation, early 1954. Also included in the tables are those values inadvertently omitted from previously published tables."
"Two aspects of the general theory of dielectrics are in an unsatisfactory state, but for quite different reasons. Firstly, the internal field is still frequently abused because some authors do not understand their dielectric models, and the difference of treatment required for long- and short-range forces is not always recognized: on the other hand authors who very well understand the nature of their models might do well to avoid the use of the adjective exact for any particular expression, unless there is a qualifying clause which describes explicitly the model to which the expression applies. Secondly, the activation energy for dielectric relaxation has frequently been derived from a relatively straightforward relationship between the loss maximum and temperature; this relationship may not always be valid for the dielectric to which it is applied. For cases where it is not valid, its use involves an unjustifiable approximation, and there were again many examples of this type of offense during the current year."
"During 1956 electrical conduction has proved to be an extremely useful and versatile research tool in probing the structure of matter. In fact, most significant conduction studies have been directed toward establishing or confirming the distribution of energy states in matter, particularly in the solid state."
"Many authors were concerned with the metals used in electrodes. Rozanova and Granovskii (1), in a paper concerned with breakdown of a gap in vacuum, came forth with the surprising finding that breakdown varied as the increasing order of the mechanical strength of the anode materials, C, Al, Cu, Fe, Ni, Mo and W, where the material of the cathode was not changed. Cohen (2), in a study of highly compressed gases, found that the cathode metal played an important role at high pressure because of field emission. He thus extended the findings of Skilling, Young and Trump from earlier work. However, he points out that oxide coatings can overshadow any effects traceable to differences among pure, clean metals; he suggests that the anode metal is also important."
"This chapter deals with work performed during 1956 on ferroelectric and piezoelectric materials as such. No attempt has been made to include developments that only involve applications of well-known materials, where these developments do not add anything new to our knowledge of the material itself."
"Intense activity continues in the field of magnetism both because of the practical importance of magnetic materials with varied electro-magnetic characteristics and because of the techniques it provides for studying the physics and chemistry of the solid state. The wide interest in this subject was reflected by the number of conferences during 1956 which were devoted to magnetism. There was an International Colloquium in Algiers, Algeria, on the present state of knowledge of the electrical and magnetic properties of thin metallic films in relation to their structure which was reported in J. phys. radium 17, No. 3, (March 1956). In Canada there was a colloquium on transport phenomena which included a few papers related to magnetism which are not reported in this bibliography. This colloquium was published in the Can. J. Phys. 34, No. 12a (1956). A colloquium at Harvard, devoted primarily to microwave ferrites and their applications, was published in Proc. I.R.E. 44, No. 10 (Oct. 1956). There was also a convention on ferrites in London from Oct. 29 to Nov. 2, 1956, which covered a broader range of ferrites and ferrite applications. The papers and discussion will be published In Proc. I.E.E. 104B (1957). There was a general conference on magnetism and magnetic materials in Boston, Mass., from October 1618, 1956, which was sponsored by the A.I.E.E. in cooperation with the American Phys. Soc., the A.I.M.M.E., and the I.R.E. This was published by the A.I.E.E. in February, 1957. Finally there was a conference on the physics of magnetic phenomena in Moscow from May 2331, 1956. A report on this conference by S. V. Vonsovskii appeared in Uspekhi Fiz. Nauk 60, No. 4 (1956). Although many of the papers which appear in these collections have been mentioned below, there was no attempt to be exhaustive since anyone working in the field will want to acquire these collections for convenient reference."
"This section is a review of the 1956 literature on rubber and plastic research and developments in the electrical insulation field. Information is included on research and development trends, materials and their application, processes, and wire and cable developments. In some instances, pertinent 1955 information is included that was not available at the writing of the 1955 Digest."
"This chapter presents a digest of the 1956 literature on unsupported films as well as on organic and inorganic fibrous materials in the form of sheet and yarn. It includes a coverage of engineering applications of these materials and their stability under conditions of heat and ionizing radiation."
"Excepting the last five references to synthetic insulating liquids, this digest comprises references to mineral insulating oils. Since almost all such, references are to the properties of the low viscosity oils used in transformers and other electrical equipment, most of the references have been classified with respect to properties, rather than to manner of use of the oil."
"Lewis and Bickford (1) presented a method for determining the resistivity of lossy material using dielectric measurements but making use of interfacial polarizations at low frequencies. Measurements were made on glasses using mica as the boundary material. Results agree quite well with those attained by direct measurement. Taylor (2) studied the dielectric relaxation spectrum of several glasses. Dielectric measurements were made in the range 10016000 cps and at temperatures up to 450C. It was concluded that the relaxation was due to alkali ion movement. Vermeer (3) evaluated the impulse breakdown strength of Pyrex glass. He found that in the range of 50 to 100C, the breakdown is independent of temperature, impulse duration, specimen thickness and electrode material. A value of 9200 v/cm is believed to be the intrinsic electrical strength of Pyrex."
"The primary purpose of this Guide is to present and discuss the applicability and limitations of the various measurement methods now in use, or available, for testing the electrical insulation of power apparatus in the field."
"The object of this Test Procedure is to establish a uniform method for determining operating temperature limits for ventilated dry-type power and distribution transformers, to give a reasonable life expectancy under normal operating conditions."
"Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"The dielectric constant and loss of sintered disks of some stannates and cerates were measured against frequency and temperature in the ranges 100 cps -1 Mc and -196C to about 400C. The values of K and tan 5 measured on several specimens of each oxide at room temperature and 1 Mc are given in the following-table, with no correction for ceramic density."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"The low-frequency dielectric dispersion of tolyl xylyl sulfone, pentachlorobiphenyl and hexachlorobiphenyl follow the Davidson-Cole equation for skewed arc: * =  + 0 - /(1+i0) (1) rather than the Cole-Cole equation for semicircular arc with depressed center.  lay in the range 0.50-0.65. This behavior (with  in the range 0.55-0.65) had previously been observed only for glycerol and propylene glycol."
"Discs of borosilicate glass of 1,75 cm thickness were irradiated with 2 MEV electrons. Total intercepted charge was 4, 6  10-6 coul/cm2. Irradiation (a) produces formation of color centers and (b) introduces a layer of high negative charge, which is situated in the glass at a depth corresponding to the range of the electrons (0,3 cm). The existence of the charge is put into evidence by an experiment, in which the glass after irradiation is touched with a grounded metal point; an internal breakdown is produced and a characteristic discharge pattern appears within the glass. The permanent nature of the charge is shown by the fact that this experiment can be performed successfully several months after irradiation. While all this has been known for a long time, no quantitative charge measurements have come to our attention. Such measurements are reported in this paper (1)."
"Polychlorotrifluoroethylene is a linear straight-chain polymeric material with the chemical structure (Cl -C F - F C- F)n. It is well known that this material can be crystallized and that the melting point of the crystals is close to 215C. Above this temperature, the polymer is in the liquid or rubbery state. On quenching the material very rapidly from the liquid state, crystallization can be largely prevented, and the system is then for the most part in the supercooled liquid, or at lower temperatures, in the glassy state."
"About a year and a half ago work was initiated at Mica Insulator Co. to compare the thermal stability of a new flexible micaceous insulation (Isomica***) with other standard commercially available materials. The aim was a simple screening test, of the type described by Mathes1 as the first rung on the ladder of insulation evaluation, which could indicate the relative stabilities of simple insulations under identical, generally use-related, deteriorating conditions."
"Solventless silicones are vinyl-substituted polysiloxane resins. They were developed in cooperation with Dow Corning scientists for the purpose of providing thick sections of thermally stable, void-free insulation by impregnation or encapsulation techniques. The polysiloxane backbone provides the thermal stability and good electrical properties, while the vinyl groups are present as a means of converting the liquid resins to crosslinked thermoset solids. Conversion to compact bubble-free solids is effected by the use of conventional organic peroxides. Compactness is essential to the prevention of corona, which would lead to the physical destruction of the insulation. Void-free character is also essential to the ability of the finished insulation to dissipate heat generated within the electrical apparatus."
"D.C. measurements of the conductivity of semi-insulating polar liquids are notoriously difficult to make; almost undetectably small quantities of impurities act as the current carriers, and for many liquids it is not possible to assign a specific value to the conductivity. Very often the current flowing in a conductivity cell falls in a quasi-exponential manner when a constant direct potential is applied across the cell, but it is our experience that the current is just as likely to rise. The current fall has been explained either in terms of the removal of ions from the main body of the liquid or the building of concentration overpotential barriers at the electrodes, while the rise is usually regarded as an artifact and its origin is not enquired into."
"When capacitance-bridge measurements in the audio-frequency range are made on most dielectrics, it will be found that, as the measuring frequency is carried below 1 kc, both capacitance and dissipation factor begin to increase. Even at a frequency of 10 c, which is about as low as bridge measurements are carried, both capacitance and dissipation factor are increasing at an undiminished rate. Now that frequencies as low as 0.01 c are being used with capacitors, it becomes desirable to be able to predict the maximum values of capacitance and dissipation factor and the frequency at which the latter has its maximum."
"It has been found that a number of commercial waxes exhibit singularities in the temperature variation of the D.C. conductivity at temperatures below the freezing point. In particular Acrawax C show a discontinuity between 58C and 65C and an anomolous change of slop at 73C Fig. 1 shows the logarithm of the D.C. conductivity plotted against 1/T."
"Examination of the leakage current resulting from a gradual or stepwise increase in d-c test voltage permits significant conclusions in the determination of the service suitability of rotating machine insulation. Dielectric absorption effects have an appreciable influence on the leakage behavior. Therefore, in attempting to use the results of such tests there is considerable merit in conducting the test in such a manner that the various components of the leakage currents are either known or their influence on the test results controlled."
"Silicone fluids have numerous electrical applications in both energy conversion equipment and communications type apparatus. To aid engineers in the application of these fluids and to determine the general characteristics of these dielectrics, a study was made of their electrical properties. The measurements were made on fluids of commercial purity."
"Most available dielectric strength data for polyethylene apply to laboratory-prepared specimens that have been tested with very special electrodes under highly artificial test conditions. This paper reports certain of the results of extensive impulse tests performed on commercial polyethylene with plane electrodes that approximate the conditions found in practice."
"Several investigators (1)(2)(3) have attempted to correlate the breakdown strength of liquid hydrocarbons with their molecular structure. These attempts have been based on a mechanism in which the field accelerated electrons lose energy by excitation of the vibrational modes of the molecule."
"An experimental technique, known as the gassing of oils; has been used to study the mechanism of the degradation of insulating oils under electrical stress. The apparatus consists of a cell which contains electrodes which are completely immersed in insulating oil. As a result of the application of an ac voltage to the electrodes, gaseous decomposition products are formed. The cell is enclosed in a glass vacuum system and the pressure changes during decomposition can be measured."
"In a previous paper (1), the necessary experimental and theoretical basis was established for a discussion of the effect of electrode area on the 60-cycle breakdown of transformer oil. A study of 1600 observations established the extremal nature (2) of such breakdown distributions and yielded an equation relating area and voltage which agreed closely with test results. This equation is: VA1 - VA2 = sv/N 1n A1/A2 (1) where V is the modal strength and sv is the standard deviation of N measured breakdown values; N is a function of the number of breakdowns N only."
"The 60-cycle breakdown strength of good quality transformer oil has been shown to depend upon electrode size for a physical area ratio of 20 to 1 and for an additional ratio of 400 to 1 by means of a group-of-minima inference (1). The extremal nature of the breakdown distribution found to exist by these tests was also found to apply to impulse breakdown (2)."
"As shown in Figure 1, the positive impulse breakdown voltage of SF6 in non-uniform fields can be lower than the positive direct voltage breakdown over a pressure region. Also, in this pressure region, the positive direct voltage required for breakdown goes through a maximum. It is believed that these two characteristics (impulse ratio <;1; a maximum in the direct voltage vs. pressure curve) are peculiar to electron-attaching gases. For example, pure nitrogen does not show this maximum."
"The paper presents some breakdown phenomena which take place in a uniform field gap (Rogowski gap) with an auxiliary electrode. This constitutes a part on an investigation to find a new method for determining the voltage distribution in the gap immediately prior to breakdown."
