"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Beginning with the next issue of these Transactions, Kiyo Tomiyasu will be the Editor. The last two years have seen these Transactions grow both in size and quality of contents. The growth has been a healthy one, and there appears to be every reason to believe that it will continue. In closing my term of office, I would like to thank the various people who have helped to make these Transactions possible. These people include the members of the editorial board whose names are listed below, the Administrative Committee of the Professional Group, the editorial staff at IRE Headquarters, and the many fine authors without whom these Transactions would not exist."
"Alfred C. Beck was born in Granville, N. Y., on July 26, 1905. He received the E.E. degree from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1927. During the summers of 1926 and 1927 he worked in the Test Department of the New York Edison Company on various electric power projects, and through the academic year, 1927-1928, he was an instructor in mathematics at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Graduate courses in communications during that year, and experience as a radio amateur (W2AGG), convinced him that his interests were along the lines of radio communication."
"Because of advances in communication, it has been said that more progress has been made in science and general living conditions in the last fifty years than in all the thousands of years preceding. Part of this is due to transportation improvements in all divisions--land, water, and air. Today, auto trips from New York to Chicago in about fifteen hours demonstrate strikingly what a big advance turnpikes make in surface travel. Such thoroughfares are important for the trucking industry, too, and government is pushing superhighway construction all over the country. On these highways traffic has exceeded all estimates, thus proving their value. The telephone is one of the important parts of the communication art which has contributed so much to our way of living. In its early days, amplification became a necessity for extending the talking distances, and fifty years ago the birth of the electron tube made this practical, as well as ushering in the electronic art which gave us our profession. And this tube, by the process of modulation, led to carrier systems, stacking up many individual channels on single transmission lines that became highways of communication. This was a big advance, greatly reducing the cost and increasing the amount of long distance traffic."
"Microwave theory and techniques include the transmission, control, and measurement of waves of centimeter or millimeter length. The methods applicable in this region differ sufficiently from those at lower frequency to constitute a rather well-defined discipline. This area is the subject of our review. Several subjects contiguous to the microwave domain are excluded. Thus, antenna and propagation problems do not exhibit so clearcut a change with wavelength, and are mentioned only indirectly. The electronic aspects of microwave generators are also omitted, although much work on the circuits for these generators is necessarily included."
"A method is presented for determining the capacitance of electrostatic fields which have hitherto proved intractable because their solutions required the evaluation of hyperelliptic integrals. The method is illustrated by applying it to the determination of the characteristic impedance of a strip transmission line. The results compare favorably with the results of existing solutions. The method is then used to determine the characteristic impedance of coupled strip transmission lines with inner conductors of rectangular shape. Curves are included which permit the determination of this impedance over a wide range of line proportions."
"Analysis is given for the problem of reflection of a plane wave at oblique incidence on a wire grid which is parallel to a plane interface between two homogeneous dielectrics. It is assumed that the wire grid is a periodic structure and consists of thin cylindrical wires of homogeneous material. The equivalent circuit is derived where it is shown that the space on either side of the interface can by a transmission line, and the grid itself is represented by a pure shunt element across one of the lines."
"The two-dimensional Hehnholtz equation is solved in a rectangle having two semicircular projections in the center of its broad faces. More particularly, the lowest two eigenvalues are determined for Nenmann's boundary condition, and the lowest eigenvalue for Dirichlet's boundary condition. The results are of interest in various fields of physics, such as vibrations of a membrane, but are of particular importance in the study of waveguide propagation. The latter application is stressed in the article, in accordance with the practical, importance of ridged waveguides."
"This paper deals with the development of a new model for a class of microwave filters. With this model one can reproduce and systematize from a general viewpoint results now in the literature. Its most prominent feature, however, is that the use of the model permits the development of a synthesis procedure for the wide-band filter. From this single model a wide variety of structural realizations are readily obtained. Designs employing this model, and the appropriate synthesis, show significant improvement of desired characteristics over conventional designs. The general multiple quarter wave matching transformer problem is also discussed."
"A single grounded dielectric slab can support either TM or TE modes, but cannot propagate both with the same velocity. This paper concerns a modification of the single slab which enables either polarization to propagate with the same velocity. Such a structure could transmit a circularly polarized wave, and would be useful in transmission, feeder, and antenna applications. The structure consists of a grounded dielectric slab with parallel metal plates imbedded in the dielectric, normal to and in contact with the ground plane. The plates do not reach the top of the slab. Propagation is along the plates, whereas corrugated surfaces propagate across the vanes. For small plate thickness, the TE field is undisturbed; hence, the entire slab thickness controls the velocity. The TM field, however, has an electric field component parallel to the plates, which is shorted out by the plates; thus, only the thickness of slab above the plates controls this mode, and the two modes can be independently controlled."
"Reflections from randomly spaced transmission line discontinuities can cause serious attenuation and distortion of pulses in the lines, and the presence of reflections at the sending end may be undesirable. The effect of these discontinuities may be described in terms of the mathematics for combining outputs from oscillators with random frequencies. The location of the discontinuity corresponds to the frequency of an oscillator. The phase constant of the transmission line is analogous to time for the oscillators. Use of spectrum and filter analogies permits approximate determination of discontinuity locations from measurements. Use of known space and size distributions permits statistical prediction of attenuation and of size of reflected wave at the sending end."
"The problem ot predicting the probability distribution of vswr for many randomly spaced discontinuities is solved using the \"central limit theorem.\" Assuming that reflection factors add in the complex plane and using the \"central limit theorem\" the result is shown to be a Rayleigh distribution in terms of the reflection factor. The probability of the vswr over a band of frequencies is calculated using the concept that this band of frequencies can be considered as a number of statistically independent samples."
"Because of growing applications of millimeter wave measurements, a fairly thorough investigation of what could be expected from sources and detectors in the 3 mm region was made. The sources consisted of fourth-harmonic generators from a 1.25 cm fundamental. A type of crystal holder for both harmonic generators and detectors in which a small crystal wafer is positioned in the broad wall of the millimeter waveguide, being contacted by a whisker passing across the waveguide (the open-guide type) was found to be superior in general to units using crystal cartridges or modifications thereof. Factors affecting the performance of these units have been investigated statistically. It was found that the short-circuit current sensitivity in microamperes per microwatt of a good crystal detector of the type described above is not greatly less than the value for crystals at lower microwave frequencies, so that the minimum detectable signal is about the same. As an additional result, evidence for art important effect in which the harmonic generation process degrades the signal-to-noise ratio of the source is presented and discussed."
"A new group of circularly polarized microwave cavity filters is described. With a single circularly polarized cavity, a reflectionless filter is achieved that couples nearly 100 per cent of the energy from the main waveguide at the cavity resonant frequency. Two degenerate cavity modes may be excited, to produce a circularly polarized field, by coupling to the transverse and longitudinal waveguide magnetic fields or to the transverse electric and magnetic waveguide fields. A theoretical analysis is presented as well as experimental results. The loss between the band-pass terminals of the reflectionless circularly polarized filter is identical with the loss in a conventional reflectiontype band-pass filter with the same bandwidth and cavity-wall losses. The null at resonance between the band-elimination terminals of the reflectionless circularly polarized filter is limited only by the asymmetries of the cavity and not by the cavity-wall losses. Design equations and curves are given for eight of the lower order, circularly cylindrical, degenerate cavity modes that are coupled to a rectangular waveguide at the point of circularly polarized waveguide magnetic fields."
"The design problems in a reference cavity include coupling, cavity Q, temperature compensation, stability, and hysteresis. Temperature compensation is shown to be a problem in second order compensation theory and is solved by material changes. Stability is achieved by novel mechanical design and by elimination of hysteresis producing members."
"A procedure is presented for connecting some known physical applications of Fourier transform pairs in different branches of the theory of waves and circuitry. After an investigation of the cases of diffraction, reflection, and coupling of waves, deflection of particles (which includes the cathode-ray-tube case and so-called gap effect) and the closely related scanning problem are examined. Finally, extension to random functions is discussed briefly."
"Projective constructions are described for deducing the iconocenter of a two-port junction from input reflection coefficient measurements taken with a short circuit placed in various positions in the output waveguide. The wavelength in the ouput line is deduced from a four-point measurement. If this wavelength is known in advance, a three-point measurement gives all the information needed to construct the iconocenter."
"Authors wishing to present papers at the 1957 WESCON Convention to be held in San Francisco, Calif., on August 20-23 should send 100-200 word abstracts, together with complete texts or additional detailed summaries, to the Technical Program Chairman, D. A. Watkins, Stanford Electronics Laboratories, Stanford University, Stanford, Calif., for consideration by the Technical Program Committee. Authors will be notified whether or not their papers have been accepted by June 1."
"One of the simplest forms of electromagnetic wave is a TEM wave propagating between parallel conducting planes which extend laterally to infinity."
"On January 4, 1957, the IRE Board of Directors arrived at a decision which may in time prove to be one of the most far-reaching in its 45-year history. On that date the Board adopted a plan which will enable non-IRE members whose main professional interests lie outside the sphere of IRE activities to become affiliated with certain of the IRE Professional Groups without first having to join the IRE itself."
"I would like to call attention to the fact that RETMA Standard RS-166 with the above title and dated October, 1956, has been released. Copies of the Standard can be obtained through the Engineering Department of the RETMA, 11 West 42nd Street, New York 36, N. Y."
"The following errors appeared in the above article. On page 248 the C term in the matrix for Fig. 11 should be j(-a²c²+2ac+a²-1). Also, on page 249 the term for T+- for the rat race ring should be T+- = -j/spl radic//bar 2/."
"I would like to call your attention to a certain error in the above correspondence. The admittance function plotted by the author on the Smith chart winds counter-clockwise. This is contrary to the laws of nature for passive linear networks. These laws prescribed that the plot of the admittance function wind clockwise from the low to the high frequency."
"The following area few comments on the above. This paper purports to derive criteria for the optimum line from the standpoint of stability and attenuation. The conclusions arrived at, however, are erroneous."
"Edward A. Ohm has recently shown some applications of microwave circulators, first suggested by A. G. Fox, S.E. Miller, and W.W. Mumford of the Bell Telephone Laboratories. One in particular, a circulator microwave modulator, I believe, needs some further discussion. This device is shown in Fig. 1. As shown, the energy from the oscillator travels to the port containing the modulator, where it is modulated, reflected from the short circuit, passed back through the modulator and to the output arm of the circulator. Let us consider what occurs if the modulator is a typical ferrite type modulator, like those commercially available. This modulator is shown in Fig. 2."
"Mr. Mathis' note is correct in that a match is achieved with the three shunt susceptances, but he is wrong in his assertion that no other positioning is possible for match. His method of matching is outlined in Fig. 1."
"It is sometimes necessary to determine the available power of a matched generator in terms of the power dissipated in a load when the load is connected to the generator by means of a slightly mismatched 4-pole having small loss. (A piece of waveguide or short length of coaxial line could exemplify such a 4-poIe; the discontinuities at flanges or at connectors and supporting beads could give rise to the slight mismatch.)"
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Sergei Alexander Schelkunoff was born in Russia in 1897. In the early years of his primary and secondary education he was interested in almost everything except mathematics which he would not have passed at all if it were not for the kindness of his teachers."
"Mathematics and mathematicians play an essential role in the development of science and engineering. This is particularly conspicuous in the case of electromagnetic theory and microwave engineering. In the preface to his famous treatise, Maxwell refers to Gauss as the man who \" . . . brought his powerful intellect to bear on the theory of magnetism, and on the methods of observing it, and [who] not only added greatly to our knowledge of the theory of attractions, but reconstructed the whole of magnetic science as regards the instruments used, the methods of observation, and the calculation of the results. . . . \" Maxwell also adds: \"The great success which these eminent men [Gauss, Weber, Riemann, J. & C. Neumann, Lorentz, etc.] attained in the application of mathematics to electrical phenomena, gives, as is natural, additional weight to their theoretical speculations. . .\" But a note of dissatisfaction is sounded in \"There is also a considerable mass of mathematical memoirs which are of great importance in electrical science, but . . . they are for the most part beyond the comprehension of any but professed mathematicians.\""
"We are all indebted to Ted Saad for his three years of tireless work as editor of our magazine. It does not take more than a brief glance through these pages to see what an exhausting time-consuming job it must be to both edit and coordinate the material for such a highly technical and valuable publication."
"A method is presented whereby considerable improvement in the frequency response of a five-stage, equal-element waveguide filter can be realized while preserving nearly all the structural simplicity of this realization. It is shown that by increasing the loaded Q of the center resonant element of a five-stage, equal-element filter, the pass band ripple can be appreciably reduced and the skirt selectivity improved. The modified design also provides a simple means of bandwidth adjustment."
"The Rayleigh-Ritz method is applied to obtain approximations to the first N eigenfunctions and corresponding eigenvalues in an inhomogeneously filled rectangular waveguide. These approximate eigenfunctions are then used to obtain a solution for the reflection and transmission coefficients at the junction of an empty and partially filled waveguide. Theoretical and experimental results are given for a dielectric slab which extends completely across the broad dimension of the guide, but only partially across the narrow dimension. The experimental values are within the experimental error of the computed values obtained by considering the dominant mode and only two evanescent modes."
"Coupling through an aperture containing anisotropic ferrites is investigated theoretically by a simple extension of Bethe's hole coupling theory to include the dipole moment of the body in the aperture. The magnetic dipole moment of the ferrite body is ordinarily a vector but becomes a tensor upon the application of a field. This new theory is applicable to any situation where Bethe's small-hole coupling theory is valid. Experimental verification was quite satisfactory and was obtained on two Bethehole couplers: one with the waveguides parallel, and the other with the waveguides perpendicular."
"A new adjustable sliding termination for rectangular waveguide has been developed. The termination is of simple design and can easily be adjusted to have reflection coefficients from zero to nearly unity in magnitude and any desired phase. In addition to the usual applications of adjustable sliding terminations for rectangular waveguide, it provides a suitable design for an adjustable transferor secondary standard of impedance for rectangular waveguide systems."
"Performance of ferrite field displacement isolators at various frequency bands is described. Single and double-slab isolaton have been constructed in rectangular waveguide. Four single-slab isolators are reported in the following frequency bands: 3700-4200 mc; 5925-6425 mc; 10,700-11,700 mc and 23,500-24,470 mc; one double-slab isolator is described in the frequency range 10,700-11,700 mc."
"A procedure is described whereby it is possible to design circular polarizers for both waveguides and in window form to be used over a broad band of frequencies. The difference in phase constants for two mutually orthogonal E fields while propagating in an anisotropic dielectric is combined with the effect due to guide wall spacing to obtain a reasonably constant differential phase constant for the two fields over a broad frequency band. By properly choosing the length of the anisotropic dielectric in the direction of propagation, and orienting this dielectric properly with respect to an incident linearily-polarized wave, the transmitted wave is circularly polarized over a correspondingly broad band of frequencies."
"This paper recalls the basic properties of a magic-tee and how it can be used as a linear phase changer. An analysis of the symmetrical magic-tee phase changer is made, which shows that nonlinearities of the phase shift and amplitude modulation are second and higher order effects caused by small mismatches of the structure. Also, some qualitative comments are made on the errors of an asymmetrical phase changer. Measurements on a phase changer assembled from ordinary laboratory equipment show that the phase shift is linear to better than 1°."
"Excess noise produced by microwave excitation of silicon crystal diodes was studied for operation of the crystal as a detector and as a microwave harmonic generator. The noise appears at the detector terminals and also as noise sidebands of the microwave harmonic, thus degrading the spectral purity of the harmonic relative to that of the fundamental. Possible models of the processes involved are presented. Difficulties and technique of measurement are discussed. Observations for 1N26 crystals, used as detectors, doublers, and triplers, and excited by X-band power in the range 8 to 100 mw are presented, showing limitations on spectral purity set by the process of noise production during harmonic generation."
"An attempt has been made to analyze the theory of an exponential transmission line from its complex reflection coefficient's standpoint and to indicate how the characteristics of an exponential line can be completely represented for any frequency with the help of the Smith Chart. It is shown that the optimum design parameters of an exponential transmission line which maybe used as a transformer, with a frequency-sensitive load at one end, can be determined with the help of the Smith Chart and some derived equations. This paper also includes a study of the coaxial type exponential line which can be used as a series or parallel resonator. Theoretical expressions for the attenuation constant, stored energy, and Q for such types of resonator have been derived. Also indicated in this paper is the possibility of replacing the uniform-line coaxial-type resonators in many microwave and uhf wave filters by the exponential-line resonators, particularly when a large power-handling cpacity is warranted."
"Tore N. Anderson, author of the paper \"Rectangular and Ridge Waveguide,\" which appeared on pages 201-209 of the October, 1956 issue of these Transactions, regrets the omission of the following reference."
"It has been the practice at Wheeler Laboratories for the past ten years to express standing-wave ratio in decibels as opposed to a numerical ratio. So far as we are aware, this practice first evolved in the Bell Telephone Laboratories."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In the preceding issue Herbert F. Engelrnann, past Chairman of the PGMTT, expressed indebtedness to and congratulated Theodore S. Saad who for three years as editor devoted tireless efforts in building up the IRE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques to a highly-technical and valuable publication. I wish to take this opportunity to endorse heartily this congratulation and to express hope that the high publication standard can be maintained."
"Wilmer L. Barrow is Vice-President for Research and Development of the Sperry Gyroscope Company, following previous appointments as Sperry's Chief Engineer in 1947 and as Vice-President in 1952. Formerly, he was on the faculty of Massachusetts Institute of Technology under wartime emergency as Director of Fire Control in 1943, and Director of Armament Engineering in 1945."
"It is an exciting experience for an individual to participate in the birth of a new technological discovery and then to live to see it develop from infancy into a mature and important factor in the world. Such an experience comes unexpectedly to only a few lucky individuals and then usually once in a lifetime. I have always considered myself fortunate to have shared this kind of experience with a few other fortunate persons in the opening up and growth of the modern microwave industry."
"The Professional Group on Microwave Theory and Techniques has established the Microwave Prize to recognize annually a significant paper which appeared in the IRE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques. In selecting the paper, consideration is given primarily to the subject of the contribution and secondarily to its presentation. The award consists of a certificate, a monetary sum of $100, and a feature publication in these Transactions. If the paper has more than one author, the monetary sum is to be divided equally among the authors."
"A microwave circuit is presented which provides continuous variation of microwave power between two outputs in any desired ratio. A typical device utilizing the circuit is described, and other uses of the circuit are discussed. An X-band power divider was constructed which had a vswr of less than 1.2 at all times over the frequency range of 8.6 to 9.6 kmc, divided the total input energy between the outputs in any ratio from 1/10,000 to 1, and had less than 0.4-db total insertion loss. No other losses were present. Adjustment could be made under maximum power levels of the waveguide. Another use of the circuit is to couple two high-power transmitters into one output, thus providing a dual frequency antenna coupler or diplexer. By cascading diplexers, multiplexing can be accomplished."
"The Faraday rotation and insertion loss of various ferrite-loaded waveguide structures have been studied in order to determine their power-handling capacities. A method of measuring insertion loss to within +-0.05 db is described. Two figures of merit containing this information are defied for the various configurations. The first, defined as the rotation per attenuation, indicates for a given value of rotation the efficiency of power transmission through the device, while the second, defined as the dissipative area per power loss, indicates the power handling capacity of the structure. By utilizing this information, the author has described an X-band ferrite circulator which is capable of handling an average power of 1000 watts. In addition, the design of a 2000-watt gyrator type circulator is indicated."
"By means of thermodynamic considerations it is shown under which conditions microwave noise power generated by a gas discharge can be considered thermal. A critical analysis of Mumford's hypothesis is made."
"A procedure for the design of aperture-coupled Filters is presented, based on the theory of conventional coupled circuits. This design procedure accounts for the relatively low insertion loss of aperture-coupled filters as compared with other known designs of microwave filters. The factors which contribute to this low value of insertion loss are the following: 1) Use of a high Q-mode configuration such as a cylindrical cavity in the TE/sub 011/ mode. 2) Aperture coupling of elements eliminating the losses of impedance transforming sections of transmission line. 3) A mechanical design which eliminates joints at critical points and also provides control over interior surface finishes."
"This paper makes use of the higher mode limitations on the dimensions of symmetrical strip transmission line to derive the permissible dimensions at any given frequency and characteristic impedance. In conjunction with Cohn's results for the attenuation in strip transmission line these are used to obtain the maximum achiew able Q at any frequency and the optimum characteristic impedance; that is, the impedance providing the lowest attenuation. This provides the basis for selecting the characteristic impedance for resonant elements in strip line filters and other applications wherein the lowest possible attenuation is desired. Conclusions are also reached regarding the best form factor (ratio of strip thickness to ground-plane spacing) for a given characteristic impedance."
"The pressure carrying capacity of a large range of standard waveguide sizes can be readily determined by the use of formulas presented in this paper. The derivation of these formulas is obtained by a contiguous beam analogy and comparable test results are shown which substantiate the validity of the theoretical analysis. Where high pressure conditions prevent the use of standard waveguide, these same formulas are utilized in the development of special high-strength lightweight guide. Techniques for designing such waveguide, including the use of a honeycomb sandwich construction, are discussed."
"A bridge method by means of which microwave attenuators can be calibrated absolutely is described, with a consideration of the main possible sources of error. A bridge was set up at lambda/sub 0/ = 3.2 cm to test the principle of the method. It was shown that, using nonspecialized equipment, a high degree of accuracy was obtainable. An attenuator was calibrated over a range of 20 db, with an accuracy of the order of +-0.02 db. This accuracy is within the accuracy of other methods of calibration in current use, and there seems no reason why, with suitable precautions, the order of accuracy should not be improved still further, if required."
"Phase velocity in a waveguide is a nonlinear function of frequency and thus causes dispersion of the spectral components in a pulse waveform. For most practical cases, it is a good assumption to consider the phase constant to be a quadratic function of frequency. An expression can then be derived for the exit waveform shape as a function of guide length, dispersion, and width of the input rectangular pulse. The derived expression is given in terms of tabulated error functions and Fresnel integrals. It is universal in form and applicable to a wide range of practical problems, A family of degraded shapes has been computed from this expression and is presented graphically. The results apply for any mode in a straight waveguide of arbitrary but constant cross section."
"Analytical expressions are given for the propagation constant for the two orthogonal dominant modes in a square waveguide loaded with a centered slab of dielectric. These are combined to find the differential phase shift in a loaded section. Solutions of these equations are given for polystyrene which enables one to design broad-band quarter wave plates. The problem of transforming from unloaded to loaded guide is discussed and two solutions are given and another suggested. Experimental results are given and it is found that the work in square guide carries over to circular guide almost intact. It is shown that quarter-wave plates may easily be designed to cover a normal waveguide bandwidth."
"This paper describes an investigation of the coherent microwave emission from pulse-excited ammonia molecules. Coherent and periodic pulses of near resonance frequency and 1-µsec duration excited the gas from its initial thermal equilibrium condition. Self-induced coherent emission (molecular ringing) continued after the excitation field was removed. This radiation was observed during a period of 10 µsec. In an actual experiment performed, a new Doppler bandwidth reduction method was used in the gas cell. The observed spectral width of the ammonia 7,7 line was about 5 kc. The emission was used to stabilize the excitation signal source to a short-term frequency stability of 2 X 10/sup -10/."
"Leonard Sweet, co-author with M. Sucher of the correspondence, \"The Available Power of a Matched Generator from the Measured Load Power in the Presence of Small Dissipation and Mismatch of the Connecting Network,\" which appeared on pages 167-168 of the April, 1957 issue of these Transactions, has brought the following correction to the attention of the editors."
"Karle S. Packard, author of \"Planar Transmission Lines-Part III,\" a correspondence which appeared on page 163 of the April, 1957 issue of these Transactions, wishes to make the following correction to his paper."
"At a given frequency, a lossless discontinuity on a transmission line may be represented by an equivalent circuit consisting of an ideal transformer and two lengths of transmission line."
"In traveling-wave resonant ring circuits wave amplitude \"amplification\" has been predicted and shown experimentally. In the present note, the input reflection coefficient (input vswr) and wave amplification are considered when the resonant ring circuit contains a mismatch. Qualitatively a small mismatch (low vswr) can produce under resonant conditions a greatly \"magnified\" input vswr and reduces the maximum attainable amplification in the ring."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Advertisement."
"The applied experimental psychologist, or human engineer, can be of great assistance in the design, production, and maintenance of simple or complex electronic equipment. By his knowledge of human sensory and motor characteristics, by systematic application of fundamental principles of psychology, physiology, and anthropometry, and by application of psychophysiological research techniques to manmachine problems, he can contribute to the development of compatible and more efficient man-machine systems. In many applications, reduction of human factor errors can be as important as the reduction of electromechanical errors."
"To Obtain maximum productivity, longest tool life and high-quality surface finish on a lathe, it is necessary that the machining be done at a constant surface-cutting speed. This is especially true with carbide cutting tools. Deviations from optimum cutting speeds must be minimized. This paper discusses an analog study of a system employing a dc motor combined with a multistage field regulator in a closed-loop system to provide constant surface-cutting speed on an automatic copy lathe. The study was conducted in order to determine how performance could be improved."
"The author re-examines the subject to reorient thinking along constructive lines which will utilize the concept as we use the many other valuable tools in our industrial storeroom. The mechanization involved in the production of printed boards is discussed. The requirements for numbers and training of people are increased rather than decreased, as outlined by the author."
"This paper describes a method-system for assembly of precision electronic test equipment. It is pointed out, when considering all segments of the electronics industry, that assembly methods vary from one extreme to the other. On the one hand, simple bench methods are used for single and limited-unit production; while at the 1000-per-day end of the production spectrum, highly mechanized power-driven conveyor assembly is in order. It is emphasized, although the precision electronic test equipment manufacturer has the same general assembly problems, that his specific assembly requirements lie midway between the two assembly method extreme s. The production requirements of this typical test equipment manufacturer are summarized as varying from 10 per year to several hundred per month, with 30 per month as an average for their 280 different instruments. Two previous method-systems are discussed from which has evolved the present \"Roller-Skate\" Conveyor System. The earlier \"walkaround\" system was used for large instruments and small-quantity production runs, while its companion \"push-along\" system was favored for smaller units especially if the production quantity was 50 or more. A 10% assembly-time saving is indicated when using the \"push-along\" method as compared to the \"walk-around\" method. The present \"Roller-Skate\" Conveyor System is described as built in 50-foot-bench units, at a total cost of $80.00 per lO-foot length. It is reported that assembly time was further reduced by 15 to 25%. Several other unanticipated benefits are listed, such as taking advantage of the \"flow\" of: sub-assemblies, inspection, testing calibrating, and shipping -- to provide the required day-to-day output. A discussion of the 1-minute versus 8-minute time cycle is given. The conclusion is reached that assembly time was reduced, while using semi-skilled workers and with an improved quality of the product."
"This paper points out that eyelets used on etched wiring boards, to receive component-part leads and to provide wiring connections, have been a source of unreliability. A study of the eyeletfailure problem is described, based upon microscopic examination of over 15OO eyeleted connections on defective assemblies. Inspection of failed eyelet connections shows solder separations between the crimped eyelet flanges and the etched conductors of as much as four thousandths of an inch. Laminate deformation and conductor lifting at the eyelet are also observed. The large thermal expansion of the board during soldering, and eyelet relaxation appear to place large stresses on the eyelets, resulting in failures. Solder Joints made with tightly crimped eyelets are found to be mechanically weak, due to the lack of an adequate solder fillet. This study helps to explain why circuit failures occur at eyelets and shows how they may be minimized through the use of improved design. An eyelet with a tapered flange is described which provides a much stronger solder Joint, with a possible smaller diameter, and with a greater effective lead-entrance diameter."
"This paper examines some of the early 1954 design concepts of ERMA (Electronic Recording Machine, Accounting), developed for the Bank of America to record commercial checking-account activity. Standardized plug-in circuit and relay modules are described which include printed wiring, an adapter for in-rack testing, and controlled air flown Emphasis is placed on reliability and easy access for maintenance and repair, by the use of integrated inter-rack raceway wiring, internal rack printed-wiring busses, and rear-access inter-connector wiring . The exclusive adoption of solderless connections for inter-package wiring, and the use of stock parts in preference to \"specials\" is stressed. It is discussed how standardization was accomplished in 22 different forms of 1500 electronic circuit packages, in the areas of connector pins, supply voltages, and distribution circuits. An integrated method of cooling is outlined, beginning with module-guiding metal rails fastened to a hollow shelf assembly; embracing shelf, rack, and cabinet ducts; and completed with underfloor plenums. The associated closed-loop cooling and filtering system is shown, which used a bypassed chilled-water arrangement and an electrostatic air filter. Special equipment, such as magnetic drums, cross-bar switch assemblies, and tape-transport mechanisms are treated. It is pointed out, when any complex device such as ERMA is being pioneered, that the design of the individual components must often be based on incomplete information -- leading to a change in specifications as functional relationships become more apparent. A specific warning is sounded that the number of inter-rack leads are usually underestimated, with an attendant poor access to terminals. Sixteen photographs contribute to a detailed presentation of the completed design."
"It is pointed out that printed wiring has given rise to a serious surface leakage problem, in contrast to standard wiring where volume leakage is predominant. Suitable insulating coatings are credited with protection against contamination and moisture entry, as well as with control of corona at high altitudes. A coating material suitable for use on printed wiring boards is described as needing to possess high insulation resistance, superior humidity resistance, good adherence to both metals and plastics, chemical and physical stability under variable environments, and good mechanical properties. It is stated that practical consideration requires that the material be transparent so that component-part coding can be seen, that the cure temperature be tolerable to the boards and component parts, that application may easily and uniformly be made, and that factory and field repair be possible. Test procedures used in evaluating coatings for these properties are outlined and discussed. Examples of coated boards are shown. A total of 48 coating materials, consisting of solvent proprietary blends and laboratory formulations, are evaluated. From the test results, a sprayable epoxy-polyamide formulation is found acceptable for use on printed wiring. The importance of the volume-resistance of a coating is indicated."
"A tank farm data reduction system has been developed for the new Tidewater 0il Company instillation in Delaware by the Armour Research Foundation and Panellit, Inc. The function of the unit is to secure the temperature corrected volume of fluid in each of the approximately 100 tanks in the field. The inputs to the system are the fluid height and average tank temperature. Fluid volume is tabulated digitally as a function of the height on magnetic tape. The system automatically searches the tape for the indicated volume and multiplies the number by the temperature correction factor. This paper describes the operation of the multiplier, the tape search elements, and the sensing instruments employed in the field. The factors governing the selection of the specific elements in the storage and computing system are also dis- cussed."
"Rapidly rising steam temperatures and pressures in addition to new design techniques have vastly increased both the quantity and quality of x-ray and ultrasonic testing required. Consequently, the development pressers, particularly in ultrasonics, which in its modern fore is of postwar birth, has been heavy. Some of the techniques, equipment and circuitry of present day inspection are described and the characteristics and operation of ultrasonic transducers rooted. Sodium iodide, the linear accelerator, and industrial television have brought the promise of mechaniztion to the examination of large castings, while the promulgation of acceptance standards and the use of ABC scan representation and recording gives equal promise of speeding up the inspection and quality control of forgings. Preliminary experiments and electronic design work towards these objectives are described. An interesting development is the use of ultrasonics in nozzle-area determination, wallthickness measurements on large castings, and liquid-level indication. Possibilities exist for automatic control of machining operations and liquid-level control. Distances and cross sections can be checked with accuracies of 0.1%. As a control device, the feedback nature of the system will tend to suppress dependence on machine or template accuracies."
"Definition of the term \"industrial electronics\" is difficult because of the varied application of electronic techniques. This paper stresses the importance of recognizing the fundamental problems involved in an industrial process. These problems generally do not fall within the domain normally covered by the electronics engineer. The electronics engineer must have a thorough knowledge of the fundamental physical and chemical laws involved in industrial processes. Reduction of the problem to basic principles permits the finding of solutions applicable to many fields as soon as the common characteristic of the problems is recognized. The task of the industrial electronics engineer is to tie the characteristics of many individual units into a common system and integrate them by means of electronic devices into an operation that performs in a logical and economical manner."
"Nearly every problem encountered in engineering at some time proceeds from the qualitative to the quantitative phase where the results of mathematical analysis must be applied in actual computation. Most often the computation is short enough that automatic means are not necessary. However, more and more problems are requiring powerful aids to calculation. This increase is due as much to expanded thinking encouraged by the mere availability of computers as to any actual backlog of work. Therefore it is to the engineer's advantage to know what computers can do for him, even though he may take his problem to'someone else for final preparation and programming. The following text presents some examples in which automatic calculation is being used. The logic, used in choosing the computing methods is shown based on the characteristics of problem and computer. As background for the examples the most important of these characteristics are presented briefly in the next section."
"Manufacturing operations with poor scheduling plans are headed for trouble. Load capacity analysis is a technique for measuring the feasibility and desirability of proposed scheduling plans. Simply stated mathematically, load capacity analysis consists of a series of multiplications and additions, However, the numerous computations in a typical problem usually take more time than can be allowed. The paper describes an special purpose analog computer specifically designed to solve this problem in a matter of minutes."
"The purpose of this paper is to illustrate the responsibilities of product engineering and design in evolving printed wire products. The short cuts are the results of planning with maximum standardization. The products to be used for illustration are 23 servo-amplifier designs used in military airborne equipment. The quantity of amplifiers to be produced is not large and might be classified as a short-run type production. Printed wiring was decided upon on the basis of reduced unit cost and consistency of amplifier performance. It is important to point out that the products mentioned are part of a large system within a large company. Many of the principles illustrated herein are necessary because of the great coordination a large program requires."
"This paper points out the relationship between human engineering, design approach, and engineering management. Application of electronic packaging with printed circuit design is discussed and several slides illustrating finished units are shown. A modern design approach is explained, both from management's standpoint and the design engineer's point of view. Design procedure is discussed and the various functions and responsibilities of a design group are out- lined."
"This paper discusses the basic concept of utilizing functional circuits and packaging them into modular end products. As the modular philosophy has advanced, the size of the modular assembly itself has decreased. Several different modes of encapsulation are discussed. Encapsulation by casting is presented. Trimming operations on the cast module are discussed. Encapsulation by pressure molding is compared to casting methods. It is shown that many of the disadvantages of the individual methods can be eliminated by the combination of these two encapsulation methods."
"At the 1955 IRE National Convention, the author delivered a paper entitled \"Guided Missile Reliability and Electronic Production Techniques\". A general description was given of several contemporary concepts of automation-for-electronics. The present paper is a sequel to the previous report. An attempt is made to view objectively the various improved concepts and their advancing techniques, and to evaluate them in terms of present trends for their use. Three needed basic improvements for automatic electronic assembly machines are outlined, and a prediction is made that the early incorporation of these improvements will rapidly advance the acceptance and application of automation-for-electronics."
"This paper describes the manufacture of the major sub-assemblies for the general purpose wire spring relay. Their mass production to close tolerances and at low cost has required the development of entirely new and diffferent machines and techniques. Several machines of the type discussed are already in operation and more are under construction to satisfy the ever-increasing demand for these excellent relays. The combination of such widely different kinds of Processes into integrated machine units is a great step forward in the march toward the automatic factory so widely acclaimed in these modern times. Knowledge gained during this development has already been used by Western Electric in planning the manufacture of future communication apparatus and in lowering the cost of present Bell System products. It will doubtless be recognized that automatic facilities of the type described require a major capital investment, the Justification for which must depend upon a large and continuing demand as well as a stable product design."
"The techniques of automation have been experiencing a rapid expansion in the past few years. It became apparent that standards should be arrived at to prevent chaos in this relatively new means of production. In August of 1954, the Radio Electronics Television Manufacturing Association organized a committee to propose standards in this field of automation. The great interest shown, by industry in general, indicated the urgent need for this type of action. The progress, observations, and results of this standardization activity will be described and outlined in detail."
"Progress in the mechanization of production testing of electronic products is reviewed. Several test equipments are described and evaluated, The necessity for considering the quality monitoring function of production as a continuous and integrated system is emphasized. This approach enables the test process planner to utilize the powerful tools of operations research in determining the nature of the test equipment and procedures required for optimum operation. A test system for the automatic factory is described. This system calls for the more efficient use of statistical sampling techniques as well as the more efficient feedback of test data. Within the framework of this system, new requirements on test equipment have been developed. The activities of an industry-wide RETMA Task Group on Standards for Product Testing in Mechanized Production is described."
"The optimum automatic process control system requires a continuous flow of information relating to the process variations. Radiation gauges Utilizing, absorption or scattering of radiation produced by a radioisotope source as a means of measuring thickness, weight per unit area, or density of a product offer a means for obtaining this information. Process control utilizing these gauges differs from the usual control system in that large delays exist between the measuring point and the control point. The existence of such delays requires the use of specialized control systems, usually utilizing interrupted control. A typical control system of this type is described and the safety precautions required to prevent malfunction or damage are discussed."
"The trend today is the use of electronic variable speed drives in applications which normally would have been filled by rotating. conversion units. Physically, electronic drives have a space and weight advantage over rotating equipment. Electrically, they lend themselves to precise control and rapid response to error signals."
"A high permeability, low-loss core was prepared by compacting Sendust flakes, which were produced by warm rolling Sendust powder. Sendust, a brittle magnetic alloy of iron, silicon, and aluminum, was discovered by the Japanese in 1936 and is used extensively by them in cast and powder form. The low permeability values (70-80) of Sendust powder cores precluded their acceptance in this country to any extent. The improved magnetic properties of the new flake cores, called Flakenol I, make them an attractive nonstrategic substitute for applications which now require powdered high nickel alloys. The permeability values as measured on compacts of this newflake core ranged from 150-280, with electrical losses as low as present powder cores. The very low eddy-current loss coefficient value measured on Sendust flake cores indicates their usefulness at higher frequencies than possible for present high permeability powder cores. The flake cores, which have a negative temperature coefficient of permeability, were stabilized by the addition of Alfenol flake material. The comparatively simple techniques for processing Sendust flake cores from the cast alloy are described, along with the factors which most influence their ultimate magnetic characteristics."
"This paper is intended to aid engineers-especially modulator and component engineers with their pulse-forming network application problems. The discussion includes an analysis of the circuitry in which pulse-forming networks are used, a discussion of case size limiting parameters, and a procedure indicating the calculations required to determine the approximate case size of new network requirement."
"In recent months design engineers have been interested in capacitors with extremely high values of insulation resistance not normally achieved in the common one- or two-minute electrification period. After long periods of electrification, insulation resistance values in the order of 100-million megohm microfarads and more can be achieved with some types of capacitors. Such high values can be accurately measured by the special measuring technique described in this paper, which also discusses the interpretation of test data taken at various temperatures and voltages on some typical Mylar capacitors. The concepts of instantaneous and equivalent parallel insulation resistance are developed and their significance discussed."
"Current trends in design of military equipment have imposed on precision potentiometer manufacturers the necessity of meeting rigid environmental requirements. To fulfill these requirements, the authors' company inaugurated a test program to determine causes and effects of severe environmental conditions on precision potentiometer performance. This paper is based on results obtained during three years of this program. The goals of this program were: 1) to determine the effects of increasingly severe environments on performance, 2) to determine what design changes were required to give the desired performance. Special test techniques applicable to precision potentiometers were developed and potentiometer characteristics affected by each environment were determined. Where design improvements in current models were found to be inadequate, the design of a new line of potentiometers using improved techniques and materials resulted in the desired im- provement."
"Previous attempts to design lumped parameter delay lines having linear phase characteristics required the use of compensating capacitors or coils. This paper presents a novel concept in construction techniques which results in a linear phase delay line without the necessity of resorting to any compensating components. A step-by-step design procedure for a low-loss linear delay line is used to illustrate this new construction technique. This novel line has a nominal characteristic impedance of 500 ohms, delay of l0 microseconds, low attenuation, and a cutoff frequency of 4 megacycles. This new work is based upon the theoretical treatment of the ideal low-pass filter by Golay;1the ideal parameter relationships have been reduced to practical design considerations involving unique geometric placements of ferrite cored components."
"Metal and ceramic parts are sealed by introducing a molten solder or by inserting a thin sheet of metal that will form a reactive alloy. A wide choice of materials can be used, including many that seal at high temperatures with little metallic evaporation. Materials can be used that can be predegassed at temperatures considerably above those used for final sealing. The seals can be made in vacuum or in an inert gas. The parts can be stacked one on the other so that a multiplicity of seals can be made at the same time. By using a metal such as titanium, and ceramic parts having an expansion characteristic similar to that of titanium, seals can be made that are strong and can operate for many hours at temperatures as high as 800°C."
"Available relays for control of high-power direct current are seen to be large, heavy, and adversely affected by vibration and shock. This paper shows how commonly available components of reasonable size can be used with small vibration-resistant relays to control large direct currents at high potential. Thus, control of high-power airborne power supplies on the direct current side has become possible with reasonable equipment."
"The mechanical and electrical properties of polymers are discussed in terms of the properties of individual polymer molecules in such a way as to bring out principles and generalizations which may be of use to persons interested in applying polymeric materials in electronic devices. The emphasis is on polymers consisting of essentially linear chains. A few linear polymers derived from ethylene, and chemically substituted ethylene are chosen for purposes of illustrating basic concepts."
"The characteristics of electrolytic capacitors are determined primarily by the nature of the dielectric oxide film. The nature of this film and the factors which influence its physical and chemical characteristics are discussed. Electron photomicrographs of the electrolytic oxide film on aluminum, as well as X-ray diffraction and direct electrical measurements of the dry oxide film, reveal that it is crystalline \\gamma-A12Oa. The characteristics of electrolytic Ta205films on tantalum are compared with those on aluminum, and the factors that make tantalum capacitors more reliable are indicated."
"A design method for obtaining minimum phase shift between output and input of a transformer is described. The method is applicable to precision reference transformers employed in analog computers and servo loops where minimum quadrature voltages are mandatory. A rigorous analysis of the equivalent circuit of the transformer demonstrates that the transformer can be treated as a combination lead and lag network to yield zero phase shift. This is done by making the ratio of primary resistance to primary shunt reactance equal to the quotient of total leakage reactance and load resistance. The procedure consists of l) designing for theoretical zero phase."
"This paper shows how to compensate the exponential relation between thermistor resistance and temperature: 1) by means of two constant resistances, so that the compensated resistance becomes an S curve winding around an oblique straight line; and 2) by means of three constant resistances, so that the compensated conductance becomes such an S curve. Formulas are given for the constant resistances so that the errors of the S curve approximations to the oblique lines do not exceed preassigned tolerances. The first type of compensation is used to compensate a component whose resistance increases linearly with temperature, so that the resistance of the compensated component remains constant within a preassigned tolerance throughout a preassigned temperature range of operation. The second type of compensation is applicable to temperature measurement."
"This article gives an outline of the electric batteries in use today. Included are discussions of primary, secondary, and reserve batteries with a section on batteries as component parts. Also included are discussions of special types of primary batteries, namely, solid-electrolyte batteries, waxy-electrolyte batteries, ion-exchange batteries, and nuclear cells."
"Power factor, loss factor, dielectric constant, volume resistivity, surface resistance, and dielectric strength of epoxies, varying in viscosity and reactivity and cured with several types of hardeners, have been determined and form the basis for this report. The effect of cure, temperature, and frequency on electrical properties also is presented. The importance of proper selection of resin, hardener, and resin/hardener ratio for optimum properties is emphasized. In most illustrations, the ratio of epoxy/hardener is used that exhibits optimum heat distortion. The heat distortion point of an epoxy system is shown to provide a good indication of the effect of temperature on power factor and dielectric constant. Brief reference is made to a number of field applications of epoxy electrical insulation."
"To eliminate some of the weight problems usually associated with ceramic dielectrics, lightweight (porous) ceramic materials have been developed which show excellent electrical properties at temperatures up to 800°C and a high strength-to-weight ratio. These materials generally are characterized by low-dielectric constant values, low loss, and a fiat temperature vs dielectric constant relation. Some suggested uses for lightweight ceramic materials are fillers for microwave devices, microwave lenses for high temperature use, and low-loss high-temperature insulators. Two types of dielectric materials are discussed: 1) a Wollastonite foam, and 2) a 90 per cent aluminum oxide foam. The transverse strength of these foam materials was found to be approximately 400-450 psi, and this strength could be more than doubled in thin sections, by the application of dense ceramic coatings to the foam material. The thermal expansion of these lightweight materials was 5-6 microinches per inch per °C, and the thermal conductivity was 5 to 7 x l0-4cal/cm sec °C. The dielectric constant of these foam materials was found to follow closely the Gladstone Dale relation."
"Recent developments are reviewed in the field of cathodoluminescence and electroluminescence. Emphasis is placed on the applications of luminescence to electronics, although some attention also is given to simplified explanations of the phenomena involved. Included are discussions of transparent phosphor films for \"fiat\" cathode-ray tubes and other purposes, solid-state image display devices, and solid-state radiation converters and amplifiers."
"The magnetic and electrical properties of available square-loop materials are discussed for applications in cores for magnetic amplifiers, pulse modulators, and memory and switching coils. Among materials having high magnetic induction, oriented 50-50 nickel-iron is outstanding. Its pre-eminence for magnetic amplifier applications can be challenged only by new alloys such as Supermendur. Materials having lower saturation find application in varied fields; e.g., 4-79 Mo-permalloy in fast switching coils, and ferrites in memory arrays."
"Considerable progress has been made during the last two years in both the understanding and application of cadmium sulfide, which is an outstanding photoconductor material. Improved crystal growing techniques have resulted in large single crystals with more perfect crystal structure and higher purity. Further improvements in purity are sought by zone refining of cadmium and sulfur. Ultrasonic cutting methods have been applied successfully to shaping the crystals. High-temperature, high-pressure equipment has been used to grow crystals from the melt. P-type CdS crystals have been produced by heavy copper doping. Thin film techniques have been advanced. Surface volume studies of photoconductors have been made, which clarify certain surface deteriorations. Methods of producing ohmic and barrier electrodes have been improved. All of these fundamental studies have contributed to an improvement in the efficiency, stability, and uniformity of elements used in devices such as photocells, gamma detectors, solar generators, and photorectifiers."
"A pair of narrow slots crossed at right angles and located at the proper point in the broad wall of a rectangular waveguide will radiate a circularly polarized wave. Some of the results of a study of the properties of such slots is presented. The study was undertaken with the aim of obtaining information useful in design of a circularly polarized linear array. Some of the properties of the slot pairs are as follows: 1) They are inherently matched, independent of the slot length. 2) When the slot arms are made resonant, approximately 75 per cent of the incident power is radiated, with a vswr of 1.12. 3) When fed from one end of the waveguide, the slots radiate right-hand circular polarization; from the other end, left-hand. In using these slots in linear arrays the power radiated is varied by changing slot length, since position and orientation are fixed by the requirements of circular polarization. The slots must be separated by a guide wavelength, so waveguide loading or other complicated schemes must be used to reduce the slot spacing."
"In this investigation Woodward's synthesis problem for line-sources and infinite strip-sources with arbitrarily spaced sample points is discussed on the basis of the well-known sampling theorem of bandwidth limited functions. Herein is described a method of synthesis based on the migration of zeros of the integral function(\\sin \\pi u)/\\pi ufrom which all possible solutions of the problem can be derived. Because of the nonuniqueness of the solution, a criterion is introduced, to derive a unique distribution function so that the integrated value of its squared magnitude is a minimum. It turns out that the solution under this criterion coincides with the one obtained by Woodward and Lawson. Examples are given to illustrate the different solutions obtainable for particular problems, and the significance of the least integrated squared magnitude criterion."
"Radiation patterns, impedances, and power gains of nonsymmetrically excited narrow slots on a sphere are considered. Numerical calculations of higher order\\phi-dependent modes of the radiation and admittance functions are discussed. These functions are applied to obtain the radiation characteristics of an equatorial slot backed by a radial transmission line and excited by feed points along the slot periphery. This geometry is treated directly as a boundary value problem, no assumption of aperture field distribution along the slot being made. Further application is shown for half wave slots on the sphere and for determining gains of uniformly excited zonal slots as a function of their location. Experimental results simulating the asymmetrically excited equatorial slot geometry are given."
"The formulas required for simple accurate numerical evaluation of the radiation patterns from slots on large circular cylinders are derived. From the usual harmonic series, integral representations are obtained. These lead to either the residue series via the Watson transformations or to the geometrical-optics representations via a saddle-point evaluation. Considerable attention is given to the calculation of the residue series constants so as to obtain sufficiently accurate numerical values for a wide range of circumference to wavelength ratios. Very good numerical agreement is shown between the representations derived here and results previously obtained from the harmonic series. The physical significance of the various representations is discussed and compared."
"Simple approximations for the reflection coefficients and differential scattering cross sections per unit area of a random distribution of arbitrary protuberances on a ground plane are given in terms of the scattering amplitude of an isolated protuberance, their average number in unit area, and the given incident wave. These functions take into account multiple coherent scattering, and are mutually consistent in fulfilling the energy principle. It is shown, in general, that if the horizon angle approaches zero, then the reflection coefficients approach unity linearly, and the horizontal/vertical back scattering vanishes like the fourth/second power of the angle. General results are then specialized to arbitrary hemispheres and circular semicylinders, and applied to limiting cases of perfect conductors with radii very small or very large compared to wavelength."
"Refractive-index variations in the atmosphere cause errors in radar measurements. This paper presents the results of a theoretical study of the elevation-angle error due to the refraction of electromagnetic waves in the troposphere. The study is based upon ray theory, using standard meteorological data reported by the United States Weather Bureau for the surface and the standard pressure levels. Computed errors are tabulated for thirty-four monthly mean refractive-index profiles selected as being representative of various type air masses for different seasons and latitudes. In order to get an indication of the spread in propagation errors to be expected during a particular season for fixed locations, computations have been carded out based on the 0300Z soundings for the odd days of January (1950-1954) and July (1950-1953) for nine U. S. locations. The diurnal influence is investigated by analyzing the variations in surface refractive index for January and July, 1953, and also for nine U. S. locations."
"A theory is presented indicating that the scintillation fading may be attributed to the incoherent scattering of microwaves by atmospheric irregularities in mass motion at an average velocity. By use of the perturbation theory, the resultant of scattered fields at the receiver is calculated which, on account of the interference with the direct wave, gives rise to the received field oscillating rapidly with small amplitudes around a mean level. Account is taken of the directivity of transmitting and receiving antennas which facilitates the calculation of received field, and also of the Doppler effect due to the translational mass motion of turbulent eddies. Agreement with experimental results is satisfactory."
"Rigorous expressions alternative to the familiar formulas in terms of spherical harmonic series are developed for the scattering of acoustic (and electromagnetic) waves by the tip of a perfectly rigid (or perfectly conducting) semi-infinite cone. For plane wave incidence the expressions are valid for observation points lying in a region excluding the rays which are reflected from the sides of the cone according to the laws of geometrical optics. Approximate closed-form results are obtained for on-axis or off-axis incidence and observation for cones with small apex angle for the acoustical plane wave scattering, and for electromagnetic scattering of incident waves whose electric vector is directed perpendicular to the cone axis. The results are correct to0(\\phi^{2}), where\\phiis the cone apex angle, and agree,for the special case of plane wave back-scattering along the cone axis, with those obtained previously by a different method. The case of diffraction by a spherically tipped cone is also treated."
"A 16,000-mc scanner is described which scans a40\\degazimuth sector alternately with each of two beams at a rate of 17 scans per beam per second. The beams have half-power vertical and horizontal beamwidths of0.76\\degand1.06\\degrespectively and are separated vertically by an angle of1.85\\deg. Horizontal collimation of each beam is achieved by a geodesic analog of the two-dimensional Luneberg lens. The lenses feed a section of a semiparabolic cylinder for effecting vertical collimation. Feeding the lenses is a switching system, consisting of two four-way turnstile waveguide switches and a waveguide chopper switch, which gives a scan-time dead-time ratio of 8:1."
"Alternative representations are obtained directly by the method of characteristic Green's functions for the fields radiated by arbitrarily placed scalar and vector (electromagnetic) point sources in regions bounded by surfaces which are describable in terms of single coordinates in a spherical coordinate system. Such surfaces are spheres, cones, and planes, or a combination of these. The representations are distinguished from one another by different convergence properties for various ranges of values of the location of source and observation points and of the boundary surface geometry. Considered in particular are the diffraction by a sphere, a wedge, and a wedge with a spherical dome for both the scalar and vector cases."
"The discontinuity at the end of the slab is regarded as the junction of an open dielectric-filled waveguide and a free-space waveguide. A variational expression is set up for the terminal impedance representing the effect of the discontinuity on the surface wave. Close upper and lower bounds for the impedance are obtained. A variational expression is also set up for the transfer impedance between the surface wave and one of the modes of the continuous mode spectrum associated with the free-space waveguide. The transfer impedances yield the modal amplitudes of the fields. The synthesis of all the modal components gives the electromagnetic field scattered by the end of the slab. The synthesis is carried out for the far field by the method of steepest descents. Terminal impedances and forward radiation patterns are plotted as functions of the thickness for several permittivities\\epsilon_{r}=2.49; 10; 100. The approximation obtained by the variational expression is excellent for small values of\\epsilon_{r}and begins to be bad for\\epsilon_{r} > 10. For very large values of\\epsilon_{r}it is possible to obtain a rough estimate of the impedance, immediately, from the values for\\epsilon_{r} = 10."
"Methods are given for designing point-source three-dimensional aspheric rotationally-symmetric dielectric lenses and for zoning such lenses. Designs for scan angles and aperture ratios much larger than conventional may be achieved and all computations can be done on a desk calculator. The three-dimensional lens is obtained by first designing an exact two-point corrected cylindrical dielectric lens and then rotating a section of the cylindrical lens about the axis of symmetry of the section. The design procedures for the cylindrical lens are based on ray-tracing techniques. Experimental results indicate that the three-dimensional lenses possess good wide-angle scanning characteristics."
"An eight-element Adcock array has the advantage of reduced spacing error as compared to four element arrays of the same size. If this error is calculated when the mutual impedances between elements are neglected, spacing error curves result which are poor approximations and may not be attainable in actual measurement. New relationships are derived for the two-phase eight-element array which include the effect of mutual impedance. Curves are plotted to show that earlier published values for the angular spacing between elements are probably too high to result in the best performance. It is shown that the value of\\rho=27\\deg15'which results when the mutual impedances are neglected may result in an appreciable spacing error. It is apparent that the selection of an antenna becomes quite important since the mutual impedance is determined thereby. Evaluation of the error in a particular case will depend on the antenna selected. It is also shown that, if the goniometer impedance is high, the spacing error will be reduced."
"In this paper, the effects of solar flares on low-frequency atmospheric noise are examined. Relations between the rise of noise, and the area of the flares its intensity, location on the sun, and time of day are studied. Noise levels preceding flares are also examined to determine whether there are any phenomena which may be used for the prediction of high-frequency fade-outs."
"The Euler-Maclaurin expansion, as a possible tool for summing mode series in wave propagation problems, is examined for the problem of a dipole radiating monochromatic energy between two parallel plates. When the expansion is applied to this problems it is found that the expansion formula transforms the mode series into the known ray theory solution."
"A set of universal curves is presented by which the approximate magnitude and phase of the reflection coefficient for vertical polarization can be determined at any grazing angle with relatively little computation. The approximation, which is almost always sufficiently accurate for engineering purposes, is excellent if the relative impedance of the reflecting medium is high and still quite good even if the impedance ratio is only moderately greater than unity."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Theoretical results, valid at and away from resonance, for the impedance properties of the rotated series slot, the displaced series slot, and the longitudinal shunt slot have been derived by the use of variational expressions coupled with certain stored power considerations. The additional influence of finite wall thickness, an appreciable factor, is taken into account by a microwave network treatment. The results for the zero-thickness resistive elements become identical with those of Stevenson when the slot length is made equal to a half wavelength. The theoretical derivations are presented in Part I. In Part II, comparison is made with experimental data both previously available and specially taken in this connection. The effect of wall thickness and the distinction between slots of rounded and rectangular ends are also considered. The agreement between theory and measurement is reasonably good."
"Overviews current society and chapter news and events."
"A new type of antenna beam scanner which uses the phasing principle for beam steering a linear array is described. The scanner consists of a bank of helical line trombone phase shifters which provide a variable delay circuit for each element of the linear array. The circuits are ganged mechanically by connecting the slides of the trombone phase shifters to a lever arm drive. Short helix sections concentric with the main lines are used to couple the slide of each trombone phase shifter to the main helical lines. Measurements of phase characteristics, insertion loss, and vswr of the trombone phase shifters have been carried out. Isolation between phase shifting circuits has also been measured. Radiation studies were conducted using a ten-element scanner in conjunction with a vertical slot array antenna having ten bays. Patterns showing beam scanning out to52\\degfrom broadside are included."
"It is recognized that the variational solution of the cylindrical antenna does not minimize|Z_{in}-Z_{0}|, as implied by Storer; but yields a minimax of the impedance function. Furthermore, the variational solution may be interpreted as simply placing two currents in parallel upon the antenna, following which, the solution for the magnitudes of the currents and for the driving point impedance may be found by elementary circuit analysis. Consequently, a first-order solution by the generalized circuit is found by postulating a linearly-attenuated traveling wave to be superimposed upon the sinusoidal standing wave. The results show excellent correlation with other theoretical and measured results for both the driving point impedance and the current distribution along the antenna."
"Some theoretical and experimental results for the reflection and transmission of a uniform plane electromagnetic wave, normally incident on an ideal strip grating, are presented. The theory is based on the variational method, and the measurements were made at normal incidence in a parallel plate region operating in the 8- to 10-cms wavelength range. A few results for oblique incidence are also included; the experiments in this case were carried out at 1.24-cm wavelength in a parallel plate spectrometer. Resasonable agreement between theory and experiment was obtained throughout."
"The diffraction of electromagnetic waves by a dominating tree-covered ridge north of Ottawa has been the subject of an experimental investigation. The measurements were made at 173, 493, and 1785 mc using both horizontally and vertically polarized radiation. The measurement period extended from late in the winter until early in the summer of 1955. The bulk of the experimental data consists of the results of height-gain and azimuth-gain measurements. Estimates of diffraction loss have been deduced from these results for the component of the radiation which was not reflected by the terrain between the ridge and the terminals of the experimental circuits. These deduced experimental diffraction losses exceed the predictions of Fresnel-Kirchhoff knife-edge diffraction theory, the discrepancies increasing with increasing frequency. There was no evidence of either a pronounced polarization dependence or a pronounced seasonal dependence."
"Some calculations are presented to show the nature of the transient ground wave radiated from an electric dipole which is situated over a spherical earth. The moment of the dipole is considered to vary with time in a linear manner. It is shown that the departure of the leading edge of the radiation field from a step function form is a consequence of diffraction and loss in the finitely conducting ground."
"This paper summarizes the results of experimental studies conducted with a scale model of a surface wave transmission line (swt line) for long-distance transmission. The purpose of the experiments was to determine the effect of supports, bends, and sags on the transmission loss of such a line. Also, the coupling between parallel identical lines has been measured and compared with the theory. Formulas and other information are given which may be applied to the design of a swt line for long-distance transmission."
"It has been found that precipitation static noise is produced in antennas under plastic surfaces, even though these surfaces are covered by conductive films. In this paper, the noise is shown to be due to a noise-producing mechanism associated with the acquisition of charge by individual precipitation particles upon impact in the antenna field region. The existence of such a mechanism is demonstrated theoretically and substantiated by experiment. Production of such noise in antennas is analogous to production of shot noise in vacuum tubes. Calculated results indicate that in practical antennas this process is capable of generating noise voltages sufficient to disable lf and mf equipment such as the adf radio compass."
"The method developed by Wiener and Hopf for solving a certain class of integral equations is applied to the problem of a discontinuity in cross section of a rectangular waveguide. We consider the problem of two waveguides of infinite width and different heights joined together with a short step when the only nonvanishing component of the magnetic field is that parallel to the edges of the step. It is assumed that the fundamental mode is incident in the larger channel traveling towards the step. For values of the channel height such that only the fundamental mode is propagated without attenuation, this problem has been treated in the \"Waveguide Handbook\"; our results are in very good agreement with the results given there. The present analysis is extended to cover the case where the larger channel is capable of supporting the mode above the fundamental without attenuation. Some numerical values are given for the ratio between the reflected and incident energies for various values of the channel and step heights."
"This paper is an extension of previous work on reflection of microwaves from an ocean surface. The present analysis, dealing with spectra, is based on data obtained in a one-wayX-band propagation experiment performed across the Golden Gate, San Francisco. Two paths of 9000 and 15,000 feet were used. To describe the ocean surface, wave gages were mounted on a piling driven into the Golden Gate channel. Radio-signal spectra are found to be broader than the ocean-wave spectra and the spectral breadth a function of ocean roughness. The important result of this analysis is the establishment of a linear relationship between ocean roughness and the spectral breadth of the radio signals. Ocean roughness is measured by the product of the standard deviation of the wave height and the grazing angle divided by the radio-wave length. Radio spectral breadths are determined by the frequencies at which each spectrum drops to the 0.9-, 0.8-, 0.7-, 0.5-, 0.25-, and 0.l-power points. The breadths are then expressed as ratios of these frequencies to the frequency of the peak in the simultaneous ocean-wave spectrum. The analysis now enables one to predict the approximate shape of the spectrum of the radio signal received in a one-way transmission path given only a knowledge of the geometry, radio-wave length, ocean-wave height, and the peak frequency in the ocean spectrum."
"This paper presents an improved estimate of one of the more important systems parameters on a scatter circuit, namely, the antenna-to-medium coupling loss, The work presented in this paper differs from the earlier work of Booker and de Bettencourt in that it permits evaluating the coupling loss even when nonconical, nonidentical antennas are used at either end of the scatter circuit, and it also permits taking the anisotropy of atmospheric turbulence into account. An important conclusion is reached that the coupling loss is not shared equally by the two antennas (i.e., transmitting and receiving) even if they are identical. This is a phenomenon which should be fully appreciated by engineers designing a scatter circuit or when measuring the coupling loss experimentally."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Overviews current society and chapter news and events."
"Overviews current society and chapter news and events."
"Groups of nonresonant closely-spaced slots, cut in the broad wall of a rectangular waveguide, have been studied in a series of experiments. The name \"serrated waveguide\" has been applied to such structures. The complex propagation constant of the fundamental mode in a serrated waveguide has been measured as a function of slot size and spacing. The results have been used in the design of traveling-wave antennas with various aperture distributions These antennas can be used for flush-mounted applications."
"3000-mc signals from a rotating narrow-beam transmitting antenna have been observed at distances from 92 to 177 miles. The manner in which the received power builds up and falls off as the transmitting beam sweeps past the receiver shows a variety of shapes instead of merely reflecting the transmitting-antenna patterns as would be expected on a line-of-sight path. From a series of these received-power patterns, mean received power as a function of transmitting-antenna azimuth is obtained and, from this, an angular scattering function is derived. This angular scattering function, which is a characteristic of the path only, is used to predict the optimum antenna size for this path. These observations are also used to predict the improvement provided by a diversity system employing two identical receiving beams separated in azimuth only."
"Measurements were carried out on 6.4-cm. and 17- cm wavelength on two optical paths, 54-km and 82-km long, stretching over sea nearly East-West and starting at the same point. For the greater part of the measurements, height-spaced receivers were used. The bulk of the statistical data comprises distributions of field strengths for every day of measurement. Curves for single receivers and diversity combinations of two receivers have been worked out. Distributions for every hour of a day as well as distributions of fade durations for a few days with special propagation conditions were obtained. A study of special fading phenomena with almost coinciding fades on the receivers in operation has been made. The data reveal that the field strength distribution for single receivers on days with a great number of fades generally approximates the Rayleigh distribution irrespective of wavelength, path, and antenna height within the range of height considered. The field strength distributions for diversity systems approximate the diversity Rayleigh distribution, which is derived from two uncorrelated Rayleigh distributed signals. Deviations from appropriate Rayleigh distribution towards more serious fading conditions seem to be more frequent and more pronounced for diversity systems than for single receivers. Distributions of fade durations are found to be log-normal. Measurements on three-height-spaced receivers on 17-cm wavelength indicate that the simple two-ray theory is insufficient to describe the ladings on a path over sea."
"The expression is developed for the mutual impedance between two staggered parallel center-fed, infinitely thin antennas of unequal lengths, Heretofore unpublished curves are presented here which display the mutual impedance characteristics for a variety of unequal antenna lengths in echelon."
"The 150-foot slotted waveguide antenna for operation on a wavelength of 10 centimeters at the National Research Council, Ottawa, Canada, is now in operation as one element of an interferometer. The other element is itself a simple interferometer with element separation equal to that of the long array and is placed to the west on the common E-W axis. A rotary phase shifter in the arm between the array and simple interferometer is used, after Ryle, with a phase-sensitive detector. The resultant pattern consists of the product of three terms: 1) The single-lobe pattern of the long array; 2) the interference pattern of the simple interferometer, and 3) the interference pattern between the simple interferometer and array. This configuration gives a twofold increase in E-W resolving power over a uniformly collecting aperture of equal dimension. The presence of two interference patterns suggests the name, \"compound interferometer,\" and the new antenna produces a fan-shaped beam2' E-W \\times 2\\degN-S. The instrument has been used to obtain daily drift curves of the sun."
"This paper is concerned with the determination of corner reflector characteristics for reflectors of arbitrary apex angle excited by any infinitesimal dipole source which is tangent to a circular cylinder having the reflector axis as its axis. Use is made of the dyadic Green's functions for the perfectly conducting wedge recently given by Tai, and the results are obtained as infinite series of Bessel functions. The quantities of interest are the relative phase and magnitude of vertical and horizontal components of electric field, the directive gain of the antenna, and the radiation resistance of the dipole source. These have been computed for a continuous range of apex angles from30\\degto180\\degfor dipole-to-axis spacings up to about a wavelength. The results of this general analysis are useful not only for the determination of reflector characteristics for apex angles not subject to image analysis, but also for the obtaining of certain limiting forms for small apex angles which are not readily apparent from the image analyses."
"Unidirectional, circularly-polarized radiation may be obtained by tilting a dipole in a corner reflector. Inherent advantages of this antenna are the simplicity of both the construction and adjustment. The theory of images is employed to develop the basic theory of the antenna for the cases of greatest practical interest. An experimental investigation has been made on the radiation characteristics of a practical-sized antenna as a function of its geometric parameters. From this data, an antenna producing unidirectional, circularly-polarized radiation has been designed and constructed."
"This paper describes a technique for controlling the radiation from a dielectric rod waveguide by placing obstacles or antenna elements at appropriate points along the waveguide. TheHE_{11}mode on a dielectric rod was used to excite concentric rings and radial wires. The coupling of the obstacles to theHE_{11}mode was determined by constructing an image line with a slotted section for impedance measurements. This information was used to design several antenna arrays with different types of patterns. The measured patterns were very satisfactory."
"The back-scattering cross section of a thin dielectric, spherical shell is calculated on the basis of simplified boundary conditions at the shell. These conditions approximate the correct conditions at the shell better, the higher the dielectric constant of the shell, and the less the variation of the normal component of the electric field along the surface of the shell. Numerical results are added for a shell, whose electrical radiuskr_{1}<5, and whose thicknessdand dielectric constantk_{e}obey the relation(K_{e}-1)kd = 0.4. A comparison is made, with the results obtained, by applying Rayleigh's scattering law to objects that are small as compared to the wavelength."
"A corrugated waveguide in which the corrugations pierce the broad wall, permitting leakage, is called a serrated waveguide. Controlling the size and spacing of the serrations will permit the design of a practical traveling-wave antenna. In this paper, an analysis is presented for the case of serrations which have a transverse dimension equal to the width of the broad wall, and longitudinal dimension and spacing that are small compared to a wavelength. The analysis yields an expression for the complex propagation constant of the leaky hybrid mode in the serrated guide, and computations reveal an adequate range of leakage."
"A graphical method is employed as a means for facilitating the determination of hf skywave absorption for any given transmission path at any given time."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Overviews current society and chapter news and events."
"A method of synthesizing linear antenna arrays utilizes the natural phase distribution that exists on transmission lines. The far-field pattern function obtained with equispaced elements is decomposed in terms of the feeding coefficients realizable along the feeding guide. Such functions are sufficiently general to permit synthesis of any arbitrary pattern with arbitrary phase. This theory is applied to an asymmetric pattern. The engineering techniques needed to design this pattern are described. Experimental results are in good agreement with the theory."
"Second-order beams in the space patterns of two-dimensional slot array antennas may far exceed the sidelobe level and therefore increase the susceptibility of a search radar to jamming or to spurious target echoes. These beams arise from the nonuniform orientation of successive slots; i.e., alternating inclination or displacement with respect to the waveguide axis. In this paper, expressions are derived for the positions of the second-order beams and for their amplitudes relative to the main beam. Experimental verification of these expressions is presented for two-dimensional arrays of edge, series, and shunt slots. Methods for suppressing the second-order beams are discussed."
"The radiation from and the reaction on a radial dipole placed inside a thin dielectric spherical shell are investigated. Numerical results have been obtained for the gain pattern and the impedance change of an elementary dipole. The nearer the center of the shell the dipole is placed, the less the pattern is found to be influenced by the shell, the opposite being the case for the impedance of the dipole."
"Microwave lenses of the constraining or binormal type having superior wide-angle scanning properties can be achieved by suitable choices of lens contours and of the manner in which the index of refraction varies from point to point across the aperture plane. The phase error (i.e., departure from a plane phase front at the exit surface of the lens) can be expressed in terms of three unknown functions: the equations of the two lens surfaces and of the index of refraction. The square of this error is integrated over the desired angle of scan and also over the aperture area of the lens. The three unknown functions which minimize the phase-error integral are then determined from the Euler-Lagrange equations of the calculus of variations. Graphs of phase errors for several typical lens designs are included."
"The imaging properties of two types of solid dielectric, circularly symmetric lenses were studied at a wavelength of 1.25 cm. One of these was a wide-angle aplanat proposed some time ago by Martin; the other was a modification of the two-point corrected lens recently discussed by Sternberg. The work was carried out for the purpose of finding their scanning characteristics and to compare their ability to produce good pencil beams of radiation. Measurements disclosed that in these lenses (having focal number of 1.5), a beam, of half-power width1.25\\deg, could be scanned up to about20\\degof arc from the optical axis by displacement of the source. The presence of astigmatism prevented either lens from being employed for wider scanning angles. In view of this fact, there appears to be little advantage in this case in using the two-point corrected lens over the simple aplanat which can be more easily designed."
"This paper treats both the formulation of the problem and its solution in a fundamental way permitting only approximations which appear evident. A system of four integro-differential equations is derived and these are applied to the cylindrical antenna problem. An integral equation of Hallen's type occurs and this is solved exactly by transform methods. The input impedance of a full wave antenna is computed numerically to show that the present theory is consistent with other results."
"Expressions are derived which will approximate the radiation fields from slots in large circular cylinders. This derivation is accomplished by applying a Watson transformation to the slowly convergent harmonic series representation and then evaluating the resulting integral to third order with the techniques of Van der Pol and Bremmer. Highly convergent representations are obtained which are valid in different azimuthal sectors around cylinders wherekais in the range of 10 to 1000 or more."
"Several topics in the theory of radio wave scattering by dielectric inhomogeneities due to turbulence are discussed. A corrected derivation of the scattering formula is presented (which does not change the result), using the proper dyadic Green's function and examining the terms in the wave equation caused by the nonvanishing divergence of the scattered field. The statistics (distribution and correlation functions) of the received signal are considered. In particular, the significance of the space correlation function in testing some theoretical results is questioned. It is suggested that the frequency dependence of the time correlation function may give more information about the nature of the turbulence."
"Physical limitations on the size of obstacle-free test sites give rise to the need of making radiation-pattern measurements on high-gain antennas at a reduced distance. The general practice is to defocus the primary source along the principal axis of the antenna reflector by a small distance so that Fraunhofer patterns may be simulated in the Fresnel region. This note summarizes and compares three different approaches with which the proper amount of defocus may be determined."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Antenna design for ground-based vehicular application is discussed with particular emphasis on omnidirectional, vertically polarized types. Limitations of vehicle size and shape in controlling the efficiency and radiation patterns are considered. Pronounced interferences are shown to arise from the usually nonsymmetrical currents to the earth. Modifications of vehicle and antenna proved effective in reducing this interference. The radiation characteristics of vertical monopoles excited against the vehicle are shown over the frequency band."
"A new type of dipole antenna has been developed, which at a length of 0,25 to 0,3 wavelengths is matched to a coaxial line or a twin line. In principle the antenna may be considered as a special form of a folded dipole (or unipole). The theory of this antenna is discussed, leading to the impedance properties of unsymmetrically fed antennas. The method has been particularly advantageous in designing a low height, broadband aircraft antenna, in which case the radiating and feeding elements form parts of a micro-strip system. Also other applications have been considered, such as shortened antennas for VHF and UHF TV and broadcast receivers. In an appendix general formulas for impedance-loaded folded dipoles are developed and applied to a special case."
"This paper describes the performance of two basic types of strip-line 3-db directional couplers. One coupler is one-quarter wavelength long at the center of its frequency band, and has a coupling variation of\\pm0.3db over a 2:1 frequency band. The other directional coupler is three-quarter wavelengths long at the center of its frequency band and has the same coupling variation of\\pm0.3db over a 4.5:1 band. Theoretically, both types of couplers have infinite directivity and unity VSWR at all frequencies. Experimental models of these directional couplers have been found to have good directivity, low VSWR and coupling variations almost exactly predicted by theory."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"This paper is concerned with a new type of attenuator element for use in waveguide circuits, The element consists of a resistance card on a corrugated metallic plate in a rectangular waveguide excited in theTE_{10}mode. The principle of operation is based essentially on the fact that since the guide having the corrugated metallic plate acts as a slow-wave structure and since an axial component of the electric field is produced on the surface of the corrugation, the resistance card laid on the corrugation causes a power loss. Hence by choosing appropriate values of the corrugation depth and of the resistance per unit area of the resistance card, a fairly large attenuation of the electromagnetic waves passing down through the guide results. The change of the propagation constant as a function of the resistance of the card is experimentally observed at around 4,000 mc. The value of the phase constant is in good agreement with the theory, but the experimental value of the attentuation constant is larger than the theoretcial prediction. For example, a waveguide, having the cross section of 2.5 cm\\times5.00 cm, the corrugation depth of 1.17 mm and the corrugation pitch of 0.4 mm, is theoretically expected to yield a propagation constant of 0.15 neper/cm for the card resistivity of 400 ohms/cm2, while the experimental value measured under the same condition is 0.26 neper/cm."
"This paper presents a discussion of the operation of a homodyne generator and detection system that can be used to measure high values of attenuation, antenna patterns, etc. from the u.h.f. through the microwave frequency range. The experimental results were obtained with a practical X-band homodyne generator employing readily available commercial components, and using a sawtooth generator in conjunction with a traveling wave tube amplifier as the single side band generator. A brief outline of the operation of the complete system is presented, followed by a discussion of the sensitivity, dynamic range and the magnitude and sources of possible errors. These are illustrated with some experimental results obtained from the actual X-band equipment. In addition, recommendations for improving certain features along with possible modifications of such a system for other purposes are discussed."
"An improved circuit for phase stabilization of a klystron oscillator to a microwave frequency standard (e.g., a maser oscillator or harmonics of a crystal oscillator) has been developed. Phase detection at a high level using IF transformers insulated for the klystron reflector voltage makes a floating amplifier unnecessary, and the use of an integrating filter makes it possible to maintain stabilization for relatively slow frequency deviations of the klystron (due to thermal drift, power supply variations and microphonic noise) up to\\pm 3mc. No acoustic isolation or extreme power supply stability is required, and the stabilized oscillator will track a frequency modulated signal. A number of stabilizing system are proposed by which a microwave oscillator is stabilized in synchronism with a microwave reference signal, offset by an intermediate frequency, or swept through the reference frequency. A stabilized variable frequency oscillator and tracking narrow band reciever is proposed for use in microwave spectroscopy."
"Following a brief review of the theory of operation, characteristics, and applications of the modern microwave radiometer, the Dicke radiometer circuit is analyzed by the autocorrelation function-power spectrum method. The treatment achieves a greater generality than prior investigations although the method is, in general, similar to that used by Goldstein. The major improvement of this treatment is a result of replacing the detector characteristic assumed by Dicke and Goldstein,V_{o} = kV_{i}^{2}, with a general representation. The final result shows that the sensitivity of the radiometer is independent of the detector characteristic. In addition, the results of Dicke and Goldstein were corrected and found to be the same as the sensitivity obtained in the present work. This paper illustrates the method and describes the results, but omits the main body of routine calculation. The theoretical results were experimentally tested."
"One of the most important factors in radar system design is the radar cross section, or echo-area, of the target. To eliminate some of the difficulties of measuring this quantity with actual aircraft and radars, scale model techniques have been developed which permit a high degree of flexibility and accuracy in the determination of radar reflection characteristics. The following paper describes some of the instrumentation and experimental procedures used in this work."
"This paper shows a method of analyzing system performance with three-dimensional scanning antennas operating in full azimuth and elevation search mode. The fundamental equations for radar range, antenna properties, data rate, and coverage are reduced to compact equations for range and data rate. This form introduces a new parameter E, the scanner characteristic angle. The importance of this term is shown and the properties of an ideal scanner are set down. Existing scanners, both electronic and mechanical are analyzed and equations for their characteristic angle are derived. Each of these scanners can then be rated in terms of the ideal scanner on a given coverage problem. A typical example is shown and the rating of various scanners is given. Finally, a full system problem is worked out. It is hoped that this paper will facilitate direct comparison between various scanning antennas from a system point of view as well as allow comparison with shaped beam search antennas."
"The problem of attaining close beam spacing and high crossover levels in multi-beam antennas is discussed with attention directed toward the mutual effects of the several feeds. A series of measured curves is used to present the mutual coupling effects on the primary feed patterns. The measured data is used to show that all values of feed dimensions are not equally attractive, and that particular ranges of values of feed dimensions may be used to obtain optimum performance from the antenna. It is further shown that the existence of preferred ranges in the feed dimensions carries implicitly the existence of preferred ranges of F/D. Nomograms are presented which aid in the evaluation of crossover levels and permit the rapid choice of the optimum F/D. In the design of monopulse radars, radio astronomical interferometers, and multi-beam radars, it frequently becomes necessary to place several feed devices about the focus of a parabolic reflector. These feed devices interact with one another, giving rise to secondary pattern effects which may or may not be to the overall advantage of the antenna system. The object of this paper is to illustrate the manner in which a judicious choice of antenna parameters may be made in order to take advantage of these phenomena."
"Endfire arrays such as Yagi antennas can be analyzed in terms of the phase and amplitude distribution in a \"virtual aperture\" plane transverse to the axis of the array. A method for controlling the amplitude and phase across the virtual aperture is given. It is shown, in particular, that the virtual aperture area can be increased through the use of parasitic side arrays, and that at the same time control of the illumination function can be retained. Thus, it is possible to increase gain and reduce side lobes simultaneously without supergaining. Measured patterns are shown for three different array types. Type I is a Yagi antenna 6 wavelengths long, tuned for maximum gain by using a modified Hansen-Woodyard condition reported elsewhere. Types II and III are two-dimensional endfire arrays, also 6 wavelengths long. Type II was tuned for very low side lobe level (30 db), and Type III for maximum gain obtainable with a more moderate side lobe level (17 db). The gain of Type II was 30% above that of Type I, while the gain of Type III was 60% above Type I. The method presented demonstrates that controlled excitation of a two-dimensional parasitic array with a single feed (rather than a line source) is feasible."
"This paper describes the experimental instrumentation and techniques for measuring the scattered fields from figures of revolution. The scattered fields evaluated by using geometrical-optic and physical-optic approximations are compared with experimental data to determine the applicability of these high-frequency approximations. Measurements of the back-scattered signals from finite cones and a prolate spheroid mounted on a large image-plane were made by comparing these signals with that of a calibration sphere. The near-zone scattered fields from a sphere and a prolate spheroid were determined by measuring the magnitudes and phases of the total fields at all azimuth angles with and without the scatterers in place. Experimental data for spheres are given to illustrate the accuracy of the experimental techniques."
"Use of traveling-wave sources in a monopulse system requires that the signals feeding the antennas be properly phased in order to insure that the correct portion of the array factor pattern coincides with the direction of maximum radiation from the individual source. This direction of maximum radiation does not necessarily coincide with the line normal to the antenna aperture. Therefore, perfect cancellation of the signals in the difference arm of the hybrid junction occurs at only one frequency. This paper presents a simple means of evaluating the level of the difference signal at the null point relative to the maximum value of the reference signal as a function of the parameters involved in the pulsed operation of monopulse array. This result is used to estimate the angular inaccuracy introduced by the pulsed operation of the array. Also shown is the fact that if pure phase comparison is used, then the system sensitivity is proportional to the sine of the scan angle."
"Results of tropospheric radio wave propagation measurements over two paths between San Nicolas Island and the California coast near Pt. Mugu are correlated with the characteristics of refractive index profiles determined at the path terminals simultaneously with the radio measurements. The radio paths extend to the vicinity of and slightly beyond the radio horizon. Specifically, it was found that the existence of super-refractive layers (either ground-based or elevated) favors the occurrence of prolonged space-wave fadeouts for the within-the-horizon path, and increases the short-term fading range for the beyond-the-horizon path. It was found that the base and top elevations of a super-refractive layer, and also the magnitude of the refractive index gradient within the layer have a noticeable effect on various characteristics of the received signal for both paths. An example of this is found if the hourly median basic transmission loss for the beyond-the-horizon path is plotted as a function of the layer heights. These results generally agree with earlier observations by Smyth and Trolese."
"During the course of development and production of the TACAN System, much effort was devoted to the improvement of the Transponder Antenna. This work has led to the realization and definition of certain design parameters and their effect on the operational characteristics of the antenna. This paper defines these various parameters and discusses how these affect the radiation characteristics. Specifically, the paper includes discussions of the following factors: 1. The general derivation of the horizontal and vertical radiation pattern of a circular symmetrical array of radiators. 2. The modulation components generated by a rotating symmetrical array are defined by Bessel Coefficients. The broad limitations imposed by the Bessel Function are discussed. 3. A reference radiator is required to provide the carrier component for the system. The r-f phase of this reference radiator, as related to the phase of the symmetrical array, is an important consideration in the resulting pattern. The techniques for determining and adjusting this phase are discussed. These techniques include the adjustment of the diameter of the symmetrical array (for certain types of design) and the vertical displacement of the center of radiation of the symmetrical array with respect to the reference radiator. 4. The specific problems involved in obtaining optimum vertical coverage are discussed and in part, involve the factors mentioned above. In addition, however, the coverage also depends on the relative amplitude of the carrier and side-band components which, in turn are determined by the individual radiation patterns. The optimum formation of these patterns is discussed. 5. Techniques have been developed which utilize the carrier component of the horizontal symmetrical array to obtain vertical gain. This permits the design of a miniaturized antenna which possesses both vertical gain and good modulation characteristics. The proper utilization of the above factors permits the specific design of a TACAN antenna to meet any special operational requirements."
"This paper discusses the results of a study both theoretical and experimental, to evaluate the effects on an antenna system, due to the scattering from a smooth, perfectly-conducting convex surface, simulating a portion of an airframe."
"When measurements of ferromagnetic resonance are made with one or more ferrite slabs in a waveguide, the reaction of the ferrite on the driving source is of such magnitude that a small perturbation viewpoint is inadequate to describe observed results. In marked contrast to treating the ferrite material as a perturbation, it would appear that these resonances are more appropriately studied by treating the waveguide as a perturbation on the ferrite slab, assuming the slab thickness to be sufficiently large with respect to the magnetic charge skin depth. The type of perturbation study made in this paper identifies the resonance in a uniformly loaded guide with the appearance of a propagation constant singularity. An operator formalism, geared to the study of such singularities, is employed to deduce the resonance characteristics of a stratified slab geometry. Relatively simple relationships for the appearance of resonance are obtained in terms of the permeability components, which correlate well with experimental results. The theory, as developed, demonstrates resonance of thick slabs to be shifted significantly from the Kittel value for thin slabs, and accounts for the appearance of \"spurious\" for \"forbidden\" resonances. The ferrite model chosen is one following an ideal magnetization precession description, with losses entering phenomenologically through a Landau Liwschitz damping term. This assumes no microscopic structure for the material and we may, therefore, not seek to deduce the intrinsic characteristics of the resonance line. Nevertheless, we may show the appearance of line width broadening and asymmetry effects produced by purely macroscopic factors."
"A novel ferrite structure in rectangular waveguide utilizing a new mode conversion technique has been highly successful as an on-off microwave ferrite switch. The unit provides 25 db of pulsed attenuation with only 0.5 db insertion loss. The VSWR is less than 1.15 and the RF rise and fall times are less than 1/10 microsecond. Less than 30 ampere turns of magnetomotive force are required to drive the unit from a small compact low voltage driving circuit. Theory, general design consideration, developmental problems, optimization procedures and component characteristics will be discussed."
"This paper contains an analytical development of the scattering matrix of cascaded two and four port waveguide structures in terms of the scattering matrix of the component sections. 1Particular attention is given to ferrite loaded directional coupler sections and the conditions under which a multi-element structure may function as a circulator are determined. The characteristics of several experimental circulators designed on this basis are presented."
"A directional coupler is described for coupling aTE_{10}waveguide mode to a TEM mode in a coaxial line. In contrast to \"loop type\" couplers the present device is a \"forward\" or co-directional coupler making use of a multiplicity of capacitive coupling probes inserted in a longitudinal slot in the broad face of the waveguide. The work refers to an S-band device yielding couplings down to about 15 db with a directivity of over 30 db. An approximate theory for the performance of such a coupler is given in terms of the theory of coupled transmission lines. The modification of the coaxial line progagation constant by the presence of the coupling slot and probes is indicated. The empirical procedure to be followed for designing such a coupler is outlined."
"A theoretical and experimental study is presented of the coupling of two identical rectangular waveguides. The coupling is by means of a uniform array of transverse slots in a common broad wall, using narrow and closely spaced slots. The objectives were to solve the electromagnetic boundary value problem of two waveguides coupled in this manner, to determine the characteristics of the two dominant normal modes, and to verify the results experimentally. A solution giving the propagation constant is obtained from two formulations of the boundary conditions. One formulation is derived by assuming an approximate distribution for the tangential electric field in the plane of the slotted septum. The second expression is deduced by assuming a distribution for the tangential magnetic field in the plane of the septum. By minimizing the difference between the two formulations, an equation which determines the propagation constant results. The values calculated from this equation are in good agreement with those determined experimentally."
"Bethe's small slot coupling formulas are presented in a form covering the general case of coupling between dissimilar transmission lines, and these formulas are applied to the special case of coupling between waveguide and strip transmission line. The theoretical coupling of a rectangular slot in the sidewall is calculated, and the coupling and directivity of multiple element arrays are discussed. Measured data on a basic slot are presented and the design procedure for specific couplers is outlined. The test results on a three and four element binomial array coupler in L-band, capable of carrying 7 megawatts peak power, in nonpressurized guide, is presented."
"Equipment to provide a full-time duplex teletype channel by means of intermittent transmissions during VHF signal enhancements caused by meteor trails is described. The two identical terminals (each contained in a 24-foot trailer) consist of a 3 kw transmitter, receiver, teletypewriter, magnetic-tape storage device, control system, and operation monitoring equipment. The antenna system at each terminal employs four 5-element Yagi arrays. Special techniques are employed in the system to allow reception of weak signals in the presence of the local transmitter signal, at the same time keeping decorrelation between the oppositely directed paths low. Individual meteor bursts are selected on the basis of their amplitude versus time characteristics in an effort to reduce the character error rate. Results of initial field-tests over the 390-mile path between Sterling, Va., and Walpole, Mass., show that present transmissions over this system have an error rate of about 3 percent. Additional work on the control equipment is expected to substantially reduce the error rate."
"The analogy of coupled waveguides to a pair of coupled transmission lines is employed to obtain a design procedure for the establishment (approximately) of a certain class of traveling wave field distributions over an aperture in a conducting plane. The aperture is the opening to free space in the broad wall of a rectangular waveguide (dielectric loaded). This waveguide is coupled to a second waveguide through a series of slots or holes. The coupled waveguides permit the simultaneous excitation of two modes whose propagation constants can be designed to have a convenient difference. The major features in the radiation patterns can be predicted by the superposition of the patterns of two line sources which are equivalent to the traveling wave field distributions of the two modes. Advantage is taken of the degree of adjustment possible in the propagation constants of these modes to obtain a variety of radiation patterns. In particular, it is found that directive radiation patterns with low side lobes (lower than those of a uniform distribution) can be synthesized."
"Dual terminal linear arrays have very unusual and useful characteristics which have not previously received adequate attention. We have investigated analytically and experimentally the radiation patterns from such arrays considering both sum and difference patterns from the two terminals as functions of (1) wavelength, and (2) amplitude and phase distribution on the array. The feeding and matching problems on the transmission lines are treated for element spacing both near and remote from\\lambda/2. The use of dual terminal arrays with secondary reflectors or lenses is discussed. Factors effecting gain and angular accuracy are emphasized. A complete satellite tracking system is described for 108 Mcps operation using 22 new type radiating elements electromagnetically coupled to a balanced two-wire line. This \"single antenna interferometer\" will give a single angle coordinate to high accuracy without ambiguities. The antenna is inexpensive to fabricate and install and is suitable for radio astronomy applications. Experimental antenna patterns are compared with theoretical."
"Auroral echoes with ranges between 1100 and 2500 km have frequently been observed both during the daytime and the nighttime by means of a 12 Mc radar using a rotating antenna. The range of these echoes exceeds the radio-horizon for direct E-layer backscatter. In the majority of cases, ground-scatter is observed simultaneously at shorter range. Twelve Mc auroral echoes exhibit a characteristic rapid fading rate and are aspect-sensitive. It is postulated that the long-range auroral echoes are due to backscatter or reflection of the pulse signals from clouds of ionization at E-layer height which are elongated in the direction of the magnetic lines of force. An alternate hypothesis advanced by Stanford workers which involves deviative penetration of the F-layer and backscatter from aligned columns at upper F-layer heights is rejected for the College observations for reasons of unfavorable geometry. The proposed return mechanism allows simple propagation modes which depend only on ground reflections and the presence of an ionospheric layer capable of reflecting 12 Mc waves at oblique incidence. For the long-range daytime echoes, the ionospheric reflection will take place in the F-layer and for the nighttime echoes in the E-layer, as indicated by the groundscatter. Some observations of double or split long-range daytime echoes support the proposed daytime mode. The exceptional cases of long-range auroral echoes which cannot be explained in terms of simple propagation modes involving one F or E-layer reflection are discussed. One type of these echoes may be associated with sunlit aurora."
"The problem of matching the impedance of a center fed reflector over a wide frequency band without pattern deterioration has been attacked in a variety of ways. In this paper a new method is described which has produced excellent results in a single-layer pillbox. Measurements of a voltage standing wave ratio not exceeding 1.35 over a 12% frequency band plus minor lobe discrimination of 18 db are reported. The technique employed involves a split pillbox fed by a waveguide hybrid. The reflections from the symmetrical reflecting structure are substantially all absorbed in a load. Aperture phase correction is accomplished by an acceleration or a dielectric section and results are described. The boresight shift is demonstrated to be a small fraction of beam width. Discussion of the application of this technique to paraboloidal reflectors is included."
"This paper discusses the correspondence which exists between the spatial complexity of the antenna of a single frequency detection system and the frequency complexity of a multi-frequency detection system using an antenna of simple spatial nature. Use has already been made of this correspondence in detection methods employing two spaced isotropic receivers to detect wide bandwidth signals. In this paper the concept is viewed from a more general standpoint and extended to the two dimensional case. The use of multiple frequencies to obtain shaped beams and superdirective patterns from two spaced isotropic receivers is discussed."
"An analysis is presented of more than 16,000 hours of 400 MC propagation data taken by Lincoln Laboratory at seven overland receiving sites ranging from 94 to 830 miles plus 340 hours of overwater data taken in cooperation with the Naval Research Laboratory. On the basis of over 200 hours of wintertime data, overwater transmission appears to be 5 to 10 DB better than overland transmission. Fading rate and fading range are more variable in the range under 250 miles. Parabolic antennas up to 60 feet in diameter show no gain degradation on the average and it is believed that much larger antennas can be used. The rate at which the path loss increases is quite variable with distance. For the winter months, the attenuation rate is as low as 0.1 DB per mile between 350 and 450 miles, while between 600 and 830 miles the rate averages 0.19 DB per mile. On the baiss of the data presented in this report, it is evident that tropospheric transmission will support single hop, multi-channel voice transmission circuits for distances as great as 600 miles. This can be accomplished by the use of high power transmitters, very large antennas, single side band modulation and diversity reception."
"Measurement of dielectric constant and loss of materials at 3000 mc/sec with apparatus capable of yielding nearly uniform accuracy over the range from room temperature to 3000° F is described. Results of these measurements on high-alumina materials show the practical temperature limits of operation of these materials as dielectrics at the frequency employed. Results on laminates of thermosetting plastic resins indicate temperature limits above which irreversible changes in dielectric properties occur."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings, Part 1, Antennas and Propagation; Microwave Theory and Techniques."
"Echoes of exceptionally long delay detected by a H. F. radar located in the West Indies are interpreted as ground backscatter propagated by two successive reflections from the F-region of the ionosphere, without intermediate ground reflection. Propagation of this sort between two points on the earth requires an initial ionospheric tilt followed by one of opposite sign. Tilts of the required sort take place regularly in equatorial regions as a consequence of two daily bulges in the ionosphere, one occurring at approximately 1900 local time over the geomagnetic equator, and the other occurring around noon in the vicinity of the sub-solar point. It is shown that tilt-supported propagation can take place at frequencies considerably in excess of the MUF predicted in the usual way. It is believed that these results may explain the reports by radio amateurs of anomalous propagation between North and South America."
"The effect of large scale dominant obstacles such as mountains or ridges on short wave transmissions has been rather extensively investigated. In most cases the diffraction effects of such obstacles have been reasonably well described by use of knife-edge diffraction theory, especially when the diffraction angle is small. When the obstacle is a single mountain or ridge, the geometry of the situation is quite clear-cut. This paper, however, is concerned with the diffraction effects due to small and gently varying irregularities in foreground, terrain near one of the terminals of a microwave link. In this case the diffraction geometry is not so clear cut. Experimental results obtained on two paths indicate, nontheless, that the diffraction geometry is very much like that of knife-edge theory even though the diffracting terrain is very unlike a knife-edge in appearance."
"A means to transmit microwave signals over a mountain by using double reflectors is reported. It consists of two large, flat, rectangular conducting sheets nearly parallel to each other with an angle of 45° or more between the microwave beam and the reflector surface. The propagation loss through this passive repeater is given. Analysis of a typical 7-KMC system shows that this scheme is practical. Its advantages over other existing systems are discussed."
"This paper contains a resume of the millimeter propagation measurements conducted by the Electrical Engineering Research Laboratory of The University of Texas. These measurements were made at wavelengths of 8.6 millimeters and 4. 3 millimeters, and more recently and as yet unreported, at a wavelength of 3.35 millimeters. The 8.6 and 4.3 millimeter measurements were made at elevations of 0.25 kilometer and 4 kilometers above sea level. The path lengths ranged from 3.5 miles to 61 miles. The 3.35 millimeter measurements were made at an elevation of 0.25 kilometer over a path length of 7.5 miles. The measured oxygen and water vapor attenuations at the three millimeter wavelengths are compared to theoretical attenuations. Spectra of scintillations are shown and several of the refraction characteristics are noted. A comparison of the propagation of the millimeter wavelengths with that of 3.2 centimeter wavelength is also made."
"In order to plan a tropospheric beyond-the-horizon radio link, it is at present necessary to make transmission tests to establish the median path loss and to determine the magnitude and duration of the path loss variations. Recent measurements indicate, however, that the relation existing between transmission loss and the refractive index of the atmosphere may enable estimates to be made, from climatic data alone, of the transmission characteristics of any particular path. Extreme values of transmission loss are believed to be chiefly due to exceptional variations with height of the refractive index, while the monthly median values of path loss have been found to be a function of the average surface values of the refractive index of the atmosphere on the transmission path. Curves are given showing the relation found on various paths between radio transmission loss and the refractive index of the atmosphere."
"A survey is made of the types of breakdown which my affect the performance of antennas and their components during high altitude, high speed flight. Present day practices for increasing the breakdown value of antennas are presented. Environmental conditions peculiar to high altitude, high speed flight are cited and their possible effect on the breakdown voltage of antennas is discussed. Other factors contributing to the antenna performance are also described."
"A general discussion relating to the application of small loop antennas with air and ferrite cores is given. A general procedure for simplified testing of ferrite-loaded magnetic-type small antennas is outlined in which radio-frequency radiation performance is expressed in terms of quantities easily measured at audio frequencies. Only a single measurement is needed to characterize the elementary-dipole-type ferrite-loaded antenna. Finally, a number of measurement results are given which apply to the usual rod-type ferrite-loaded loop antenna: measurement parameters cover a broad range of core lengts and diameters. It is found that typical ferrite-loaded loops have little electrical advantage over air loops although the packaging advantage of ferrite loops may be significant."
"A tracking system which measures distance by comparing the phase of signals arriving at a pair of spaced receiving antennas from a common source remains accurate when the signals have undergone identical phase distortions. The receiving antennas of such a system are normally mounted on a large ground plane to minimize multipath reflection errors at low elevation angles. This paper describes a study made of the effect of ground constants and ground plane size on the amplitude and phase of the electric field above a ground plane surrounded by lossy dielectric. Rapid phase shift near glancing incidence is found to be a function of elevation angle, ground reflection coefficient, and ground plane size. Results may be used to estimate tracking error in a differential phase measuring system."
"A new L-band modulator is described which utilizes low saturation magnetization ferrites to achieve a high percentage modulation over an eight per cent bandwidth. The device is designed in 7/8\" coaxial line and modulation is effected by alternately biasing the ferrite element into-and away from-gyromagnetic resonance using a longitudinally applied magnetic field. The ferrite element is a thin walled tube of ferrite aluminate located concentrically on the coaxial line center conductor. Its saturation magnetization is such that operation is from zero field to resonance. Two concentrically wound coils are used to independently achieve ferrite biasing at the midpoint of the resonance curve and to achieve amplitude modulation. Design theory leading to the development of the modulator is presented. Information is likewise included on the pertinent physical and electrical characteristics of the modulator."
"There is a class of antennas whose pattern as well as impedance is practically independent of frequency for all frequencies above a certain value. The general formula for their shape isr = e^{a}(\\varpi+\\varpi_{0})F(\\theta)wherer \\theta \\varpiare the usual spherical coordinates, a and\\varpi_{0}are constants andF(\\theta)is any function of\\theta. Assuming a to be positive,\\varpiranges from -\\inftyto some finite value which determines the low frequency limit. For such antennas a change of frequency is equivalent to a rotation of the antenna about\\theta=0. It appears that the pattern converges to the characteristic pattern as the frequency is raised, if a is not\\infty, and that the impedance converges to the characteristic impedance for alla."
"Antenna structures for which the input impedance and radiation patterns vary periodically with the logarithm of the frequency are described. For a particular class of these structures the variation of the electrical characteristics over a period is negligible, the result being an antenna for which the impedance and patterns are essentially independent of frequency over bandwidths greater than ten to one. The antennas are linearly polarised and bi-directional beams of approximately equal principal plane beamwidths are obtained. The beamwidth may be controlled to a considerable extent by the geometry of the structure."
"One of the principle concerns of the aircraft antenna designer is to determine whether an antenna having some known terminal impedance characteristics can be compensated to meet a specified VSWR-bandwidth relation. Alternatively the problem may be to select from among possible antenna configurations that one which possesses the greatest impedance broadbanding potential. In this paper the problem is examined by means of modern circuit theory. Antenna impedances are approximated by rational algebraic fractions and the impedances represented by these functions are treated analytically to determine the VSWR-bandwidth relationship which may be obtained by optimum compensation. The functions that can be considered by the techniques developed are sufficiently complex to adquately represent the basic impedance characteristics obtained with typical airborne flush-mounted antennas over a frequency range that causes the dimensions of the antenna to vary between a small fraction of a wavelength and approximately a wavelength. Examples are given."
"The large class of travelling wave antennas includes many examples which are superficially quite different, such as the helical antenna, the dielectric antenna, the corrugated surface, and the long Yagi antenna. The essential similarity of these antennas is discussed, and it is shown that the pattern bandwidth is inherently large, and separable from the impedance bandwidth. Broadband methods of excitation are discussed which allow for operation over frequency ratios as high as 2 to 1. Experimental results are presented on the broadband operation of a 10 wavelength Yagi antenna."
"In a normal horn radiator or aperture type antenna the beamwidth of the main lobe is inversely proportional to the aperture in wavelengths. As frequency is varied the aperture/ wavelength ratio varies in direct proportion, providing a one to one correspondence between frequency and beamwidth. A new type horn radiator called the \"pinwall\" antenna has been developed which provides an essentially constant beamwidth over a 4 to 1 band instead of the usual 4 to 1 variation in beamwidth that would result from this frequency change. The basic principle behind the pinwall antenna lies in the replacement of the walls of a horn With pins properly spaced to allow the higher frequencies to radiate from a small aperture while constraining the lower frequencies until larger apertures are reached. End-fire radiators were also investigated and dimensions have been obtained for polyrod antennas which produce a constant beamwidth over a 2 to 1 band."
"A high frequency antenna system whose characteristics are those desirable for long path ionospheric propagation in the high frequency range and whose beam is steerable in the azimuth plane is described. High gain at low angles of radiation with patterns containing a minimum of secondary lobes are features of this antenna. The steerable system discussed here is of the Wullenweber type, but of interest is the nature by which two separate and independent arrays are combined in one supporting structure. The lower frequency array is vertically polarized, while that of the higher frequency array is horizontal. On the basis of vswr remaining under 2:1, each array maintains a satisfactory input impedance over a bandwidth of 2:1."
"Two new types of microwave antennas have been invented. The first consists of an undulating conductor surrounded by straight conductors at ground potential. When the period of undulation is a wavelength long, transversely-polarized broadside radiation is obtained. Various modifications of this basic configuration result in two-dimensional pencil beam arrays, in line sources for secondary reflectors and lenses, and in antennas suitable for printed circuit techniques. The second type of antenna is a cylindrical structure which has a nondirectional azimuthal pattern. It consists of a central helical conductor surrounded by a coaxial metallic cylinder in which longitudinal or transverse slots, also helically disposed, are cut. Its elevation pattern is narrow and depends upon the length of the array. Distributive methods of matching these traveling wave arrays for broadside radiation and means of controlling the radiation intensity are described. Possible fields of application are in radar, communications and television."
"Approximate expressions are derived for the electromagnetic fields in a surface wave which propagates along a typical modulated structure - a rectangular slab of uniform thickness, mounted on a perfectly conducting surface, whose dielectric constant and/or permeability vary slowly in a sinusoidal manner along the direction of propagation. Radiation patterns are computed for such a structure of finite length set in an infinite ground plane. In contrast to the endfire pattern obtained from a homogeneous slab, it is possible to obtain a tilted beam from the modulated structure by proper control of the amplitude, wavelength and phase of the structure modulation."
"A 'modulated' surface wave is one whose phase and/or amplitude varies as the wave propagates along a surface. Structures that support such a wave are characterized by an effective index of refraction that varies in the direction of propagation. Pattern calculations based on harmonic analysis of the spatial frequencies contained in phase- and/or amplitude-modulated waves show that surface wave antennas can be built (a) with very high endfire gain (for example, Simon's \"cigar\" antenna, which inspired this work), (b) with the beam tilted at an arbitrary angle with the surface. Preliminary experimental evidence has been obtained."
"The following paper describes a series of annular slot antennas capable of producing omnidirectional beams, linearly and circularly polarized pencil beams, and a search type fan beam. Modifications of certain physical and electrical characteristics of annular slots have made construction simple and eliminated some of the undesirable radiation pattern characteristics of basic annular slots. These antennas may be made lightweight and occupy little volume. Most of the antennas developed are narrow band devices. Feeding methods would have to be altered where band width is imperative. This work was executed at 9000 mc."
"The use of circularly polarized microwave cavities leads to simplification in the art of microwave filter design. Only one cavity (with two coupling apertures) is required to produce a four-port waveguide filter that is a reflectionless diplexer (i. e., a filter for mixing or separating signals of different frequency). A rectangular waveguide with one coupling aperture can excite a circularly polarized cavity mode by Hxand Hzor Eyand Hxcoupling. The latter type of coupling can be accomplished through apertures in the side walls of a circular cylinder cavity, freeing the end plates for tuning and temperature compensation. For cornrnercial use of these filters the TE112cavity mode was chosen as the optimum degenerate mode on the basis of minimum cavity wall losses and maximum separation of unwanted cavity modes. Experimental test results at X-band frequencies are included for several of these cavities."
"Low-pass filters find application as components in narrow band transmitting, receiving and test equipment to control spurious responses, harmonic output and interference. Strip-line low-pass filters are easily designed and give very satisfactory performance at a fraction of the cost of other types in the frequency range from 500 to 7000m.c. This report gives a design procedure for strip-line low-pass filters including two improvements over conventional designs. It is shown that by cutting away a small portion of the dielectric material surrounding the fine conductor in the high impedance or inductive sections of the filter, the stop band width can be effectively extended by as much as 100%. A formula for the characteristic impedance of the resulting two dielectric, high impedance transmission line structure is derived. A method not involving stubs for realizing m-derived sections is given. The resulting m-derived sections have the advantage of smaller size and do not become antiresonant at approximately twice the cut off frequency as do the quarter wavelength open circuited stubs commonly used. An approximate method for taking fringing capacitance into account is given. The problem of spurious responses caused by waveguide mode propagation is discussed and two solutions are offered."
"This paper describes a multi-port, biconical antenna that can be used as a wide-band direction finder or multiplexer. when the antenna is used for reception, incident plane waves excite in the feeding coaxial line both the TEM mode and the orthogonal TE11mode whose azimuthal orientation depends on the direction of arrival of the signal. Directional information can be obtained by measuring the sum of these two modes at four fixed detectors arranged at 90-degree intervals around the coaxial line. Alternatively, the linearly polarized TE11mode can be resolved, with appropriate circuitry, into right- and left-hand circularly polarized TE11modes. Then directional information can be obtained by measuring the phase difference between either of the circularly polarized modes and the TEM mode. This latter form of direction finder is well suited to multiplexing applications because each of its three ports is well isolated from the others. Furthermore, this antenna has the unique property that a signal fed into any one of these three ports will cause the antenna to radiate omnidirectionally in azimuth. A waveguide version of this antenna has been built and tested and found to operate well over the frequency range of 8.2 to 12.4 kMc."
"This paper attempts to summarize previous work on conventional3/2\\lambda_{g}four arm series hybrid rings and to present some material believed to be new on the properties of the conventional hybrid ring and related annuli for analog computation. It also presents new material on the properties of3/2\\lambda_{g}series hybrids with more than four taps, on hybrids of certain greater perimeters, and on the conjugacy properties of certain3/2\\lambda_{g}perimeter hybrids used in tandem or cascade."
"In treating the behavior of the magnetic moments of unbalanced electron spins in ferromagnetic materials under the action of an r-f field, second order terms in the alternating components are usually neglected. It is here shown that retention of certain second order terms for one component of the magnetization predicts the possibility of using ferrites to detect an amplitude modulated microwave signal. The demodulated envelope could be used to magnetostrict a long thin ferrite rod, the vibration of which can be observed by means of a polarized BaTio3ceramic rod. The results obtained with an experimental model of this device indicate verification of the theory. factors which are expected to improve performence are discussed."
"This paper describes three transitions from waveguide to coaxial line, each of which cover a frequency band of more than 30%. These include: 1. A colinear end-on transition from RG 48/U waveguide (3\" x 1-1/2\" o.d.) to standard 50 ohm 7/8\" coaxial line. VSWR<1.10 from 2600 to 3700 mc. 2. A colinear end-on transition from 2.840\" x 0.875\" i.d. waveguide to standard 50 ohm 7/8\" coaxial line. VSWR<1.1O from 2600 to 3700 mc. 3. A transition from WR 159 to 50 ohm coaxial line with a VSWR<1.14 from 4800 to 6500 mc. This is a \"normal\" transition in that the coaxial line feeds into the center of the broad face of the waveguide."
"In coaxial transmission lines, the inner conductor is commonly supported by dielectric beads spaced at intervals along identical sections of line. At microwave frequencies, where the bead spacing is large compared with the wavelength, there result sharp peaks of reflection corresponding to reinforcement of the reflections of individual beads. Assuming that the reflections of the beads themselves have been reduced to a uniform minimum by careful design and production control, it is advantageous to disperse the beads in each section so as to reduce the cumulative reflection peaks. A dispersal has been found which is believed to yield the minimum value of peak reflection."
"A microwave circulator utilizing ferrite elements can be converted into a fast-acting microwave switch by placing the ferrite in a pulsed magnetic field. The operation of the circulator may be based on the Faraday rotation phenomenon or on the nonreciprocal phase shift observed in a ferrite-loaded rectangular waveguide. Problems in the design of the microwave structure as well as the electronic driving circuitry are discussed. Various techniques for the reduction of eddy currents in the waveguide are presented and the performance characteristics of various switches are given."
"This paper describes a novel mechanical microwave switch. In its present embodiment the switch is primarily applicable to low-power circuitry. The switching time is of the order of one millisecond, and the stop-power attenuation is better than 60 db at all frequencies of the useful microwave spectrum. The intrinsic insertion loss in the pass-power condition is negligibly small, and the total insertion loss can be kept negligibly small over a very wide frequency band by the use of proper input and output transitions. The short switching time was obtained by using an elastic inner conductor in a strip transmission line, which upon a small longitudinal displacement of one end experiences a much larger lateral displacement of the center of the section and thereby contacts the outer conductor causing a very effective short. The driving force is obtained from a greatly simplified relay structure. Due to the very small motion of all moving parts and the absence of frictional joints, the switch has shown exceptionally good long-life properties."
"The cavity frequency stabilization system operating over narrow frequency bands described previously has been extended for 40% bandwidth operation in rectangular waveguide. The development of a variable coupling type high \"Q\" cylindrical stabilization cavity and a compact phase shifter-mode suppressor required for the system is discussed. These components operate over the entire 8,200 to 12,400 Mcs./sec. bandwidth of 1\"\\times1/2\" rectangular waveguide. The system has been applied to two klystrons differing electrically. An improvement in the frequency stability of these klystrons by factors between 4 and 40 has been attained, with a power loss from 10 to 20 DB., depending on system adjustments. The frequency stabilization system can be applied to most klystrons operating into 1\"\\times1/2\" waveguide."
"A circularly polarized travelling wave cavity (abbreviated cp-twc) is described for use in measuring the components of the tensor permeability of ferrites. The cp-twc is a ring of waveguide all of which is rectangular except for a section of cylindrical waveguide in which the rf field is circularly polarized (cp). The ferrite sample, centered axially in this cylindrical section, is a rod 0.050 inch in diameter and 1.0 inch in length. A dc magnetic field is applied longitudinally to the rod and as the field is varied, the transmission through the cavity and the resonant frequency of the cavity change. By measuring these changes for both positive and negative cp-rf fields the components of the tensor permeability are obtained."
"A measuring technique is described that can be used to determine qualitatively and quantitatively all higher order modes propagating in a straight, lossless, rectangular waveguide. Calibrated electric probes are used to sample the electric field strengths at various locations on the waveguide walls. These locations are confined to specified transverse cross-sections. Results of measurements of second and third harmonic power generated by a high power, S-band radar transmitter are friefly discussed."
"The problem of many directionally coupled parallel waveguides is considered for circular and flat configurations. The case of a finite number of continuously and uniformly coupled lines is solved by the application of normal modes. This case is extended to an infinite number of lines, and a Bessel function solution is obtained. A comparison of solutions for finite and infinite sets of coupled lines indicates that the Bessel functions are sufficiently accurate for most practical systems. Discrete coupling is considered, and it is shown that, although ideal matching of all the normal modes is not in general possible, the multiple-line directional coupler is nevertheless a feasible component."
"During 1955 several hundred paths were tested for mountain obstacle transmission loss in approximately 40 different locations in California, U.S.A. Thorough investigations were made of representative frequencies from 50 to 500 mcs. Limited measurements were made at 900 and 1800 mcs. Almost without exception all paths planned provided the anticipated obstacle-gain phenomena. Suitable techniques were evolved whereby these phenomena may be used to extend radio communication ranges in mountainous areas along non-line-of-sight radio paths. It has been shown that 20- 30 db reduction in comparison to tropospheric scatter paths in path loss is readily obtainable in mountainous areas. In comparison with smooth earth paths the obstacle \"gain\" figures are in the order of 70 to 80 db. A reliable and accurate means for computing the mountain obstacle transmission loss, and a simplified siting procedure were developed."
"The theory and design of power dividers in coaxial line for any given power division ratio into two loads are covered. Broadband response is achieved by making the input reflection coefficient be zero and its derivative with frequency be zero also (maximally flat response). The effects of changing frequency and mismatched loads on input standing wave ratio and power split ratio are treated."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"This paper examines the theory and practice of compensation networks for ceramic phono-reproducers. It shows that even though the RIAA Recording Characteristic is defined in terms of velocity, an amplitude-responsive reproducer may be used to match this characteristic in an ideal manner."
"Outdoor installations of high-powered sound systems have been made for the purpose of communicating over large areas from systems located on tall buildings and on airplanes. In order to evaluate the performance of these systems it is necessary to use actual speech materials rather than perform simple physical measurements. Airborne systems are affected greatly by the Doppler shift in frequency which cannot be accounted for in a physical evaluation of a system and reflections from buildings introduces echoes for which it is impossible to calculate the effect upon intelligibility. Speech materials have been used to determine both the intensity levels as a function of distance and angle, as well as the intelligibility of the system for various power levels. The results of these studies lead directly to the design of more efficient communication systems. The application of the results of two studies is shown for the design of optimum systems."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The high-speed duplication of previously recorded magnetic tapes has made the tape radio network practical. For example, each of the two major radio networks in Mexico duplicates over 19,000 seven-inch reels of taped programs per month for their several hundred affiliated stations. Since the tapes are erasable and wire program circuits are seldom used, these networks operate very economically, and the quality of their recorded programs is unimpaired by losses in transmission. Likewise, the adoption of Automatic Programming Systems for radio broadcasting will create a demand for syndicated magnetic tape programs and tape libraries. High-speed magnetic tape duplicators are also utilized for the mass production of tape recordings for entertainment, education, churches, libraries for the blind, reviews of professional publications, and sales information for large field sales organizations. The Ampex Model S-3200 tape duplicator with ten slaves will produce up to ten copies at one time of 15,7\\frac{1}{2}, or3\\frac{3}{4}ips master recordings at 60 ips. The copies can be recorded to be reproduced either at the speed of the master or at half speed; i.e.,3\\frac{3}{4}ips copies from a7\\frac{1}{2}ips master. The duplicates may be either half-track, double-track, full-track, or two-track stereophonic. Comparisons are made of the degradation of the signal-to-noise ratio, frequency response, and distortion with respect to the number of generations of the duplicates. With optimum adjustment of the equipment, it is very difficult to identify the fourth generation copy from the master recording."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Articles published outside of the IRE thought be of special interest to the members of the IRE Professional Group on Audio, are abstracted here. Additional articles of interest are also noted."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Modern day practices in designing high-fidelity equipment make necessary certain knowledge concerning the characteristics of components and complete reproducing systems. Some of these characteristics are often overlooked and many times some are overemphasized. Since a listener can hear music reproduced on nothing less than a complete system of some kind, the system characteristics should be those of primary concern. Component evaluation should be based primarily on the considerations involved in placement in a system, and certain parameters of components should maintain their proper relationships to each other. Much criticism today is directed toward basic theory of operation instead of the shortcomings of existing designs. An attempt is being made here to place some of these characteristics in their proper perspective and to point out certain fallacies that exist in the thinking of some people who have not had the opportunity to delve into the practical aspects of high-fidelity design problems. Everything is treated with the view of eventual placement in a complete system. Correlation of measurements and listening tests is an important factor."
"This paper is concerned with the problems involved in the design of loudspeakers and in the assessment of their performance. The incorporation of design data into speaker applications is also discussed."
"Articles published outside of the IRE thought be of special interest to the members of the IRE Professional Group on Audio, are abstracted here. Additional articles of interest are also noted."
"The quality of home reproduction of sound is strongly dependent upon psychological considerations and the characteristics of the room. To evaluate improved methods of home reproduction it is necessary to check system performance by carefully controlled listener tests. The results obtained from such tests indicate that wide-range reproduction is only acceptable when distortion is kept to an extremely low level."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement: IEEE."
"In this paper the design and testing of audio amplifiers is discussed. Attention is also given to the question of comparing the performance of different amplifiers and to the lines along which future investigation should proceed."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Articles published outside of the IRE thought be of special interest to the members of the IRE Professional Group on Audio, are abstracted here. Additional articles of interest are also noted."
"A transistorized RC phase-shift oscillator is very similar to the electron tube circuit. Two important differences are: 1) A transistor possesses active phase-shift elements which can be utilized as part of the total phase shift; 2) large current capabilities of the transistor make it possible to obtain significant power at reasonable resistance values. The small-signal analysis given herein is based upon a hybrid-π transistor equivalent circuit which includes the active phase-shift elements of the transistor. Data are given for some operating circuits. Frequency modulation of the transistorized phase-shift oscillator can be readily carried out by modulating the transistor active phase-shift elements."
"Some direct-coupled augmented cathode-follower circuits are described suitable for power-tube grid drivers, coaxial cable drivers, high-input impedance isolation stages, active electronic filters and frequency selective circuits. One of the circuits, using only2\\frac{1}{2}double triodes, has an input-output voltage transfer ratio of 0.995 or greater with no phase reversal, can supply up to 100 ma of positive current has a freqency response essentially flat from zero up into the megacycle-second range can have an input capacitance approaching or equal to zero exhibits an input resistance greater than 1011ohms for input swings of ±100 volts or more using ordinary unselected receiving tubes has an output resistance of 3 ohms, will handle a dynamic range of 630 volts peak-to-peak, and shows less than one part in a million total harmonic distortion at 20-volts runs output and only two parts in 105distortion at 100 volts rms output."
"The emitter bypass capacitor has probably become as commonplace in transistor circuitry as its vacuum tube counterpart, the cathode bypass capacitor. An equivalent circuit analysis of the common-emitter amplifier yields a simple relation that may be used for the determination of the approximate value of the capacitor in terms of the required low-frequency response and the circuit and transistor parameters."
"Ceramic piezoelectric elements are affected by elevated temperatures to an extent which bears upon their use in microphones and phonograph pickups. Sensitivity and capacity measurements before and after heat tests illustrate this effect. An element, subjected to a constant temperature for one hour in the range 20°C to 100°C, suffers a permanent sensitivity loss which is negligible below 50°C and moderate (3 to 5 db) between 50°C and 80°C. Above 80°C the sensitivity loss becomes increasingly severe until at 105°C the element is essentially depolarized. Repetition of the heat treatment increases the permanent sensitivity loss, but after 3 or 4 repetitions, the loss does not increase appreciably. The element capacity is found to increase under all heat tests."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The paper deals with popularizing hi-fi listening facilities in Europe which, due to a difference in broadcasting practice is easier over there than in the United States. These differences are analyzed and the conclusion of the writer is that a large contingent of hi-fi listeners in Europe could be created by improving the reproduction quality of fm radio sets without increasing the cost too much. As a distortion limit for this purpose a figure of 1 per cent is chosen, while the output power should be near the 10-watt figure. To realize these properties a special circuit has been designed viz., a single-ended push-pull output stage with combined positive and negative feedback. A loudspeaker with a voice coil impedance of 800 ohms is being used, making an output transformer superfluous. This direct coupling is one of the necessities to get a cheap but very good setup. Further, the so-called 3D system and means for getting rid of the keyhole effect are discussed."
"The paper reviews briefly the history of stereophonic reproduction. The principal basic systems with their underlying ideas are described and compared. Some account is given of the supposed mechanism of natural binaural listening from the viewpoint of direction localization. The principles and practice are discussed of a particular system for domestic use, derived from the early work of Blumlein, and characterized by the use of spaced loudspeakers driven in phase, to which the name \"stereosonic\" has been given. The aims of this system are defined, and the mathematical theory involved in its use is developed. Limitations and sources of error in the results achieved are described. Equipment used in the making of master recordings and some of the problems of studio technique involved are described. Consideration is given to the form which a domestic stereophonic record should take, and the standards to which such a record should conform, together with the requirements which these impose on the reproducing equipment."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Articles published outside of the IRE thought be of special interest to the members of the IRE Professional Group on Audio, are abstracted here. Additional articles of interest are also noted."
"Assuming nonlinear tube characteristics, this paper presents: 1) a single mathematical analysis of instantaneous relations applicable to all classes of operation of push-pull audio vacuum tube amplifiers; 2) a mathematical derivation, applicable to all classes of operation, of the composite load line equation and a study of the amplifier frequency response both at medium and low frequencies, with third and higher odd-order effects neglected at low frequencies; 3) an analytical method for finding the maximum magnitude of class AB1and AB2grid bias beyond which appreciable non-linear distortion occurs; and 4) a single general condition for matching the load to the tubes irrespective of the class of operation, and the interpretation of this condition for each case."
"The important factors involved in the development of a phonetic typewriter are as follows: the particular form in which the words are typed; the means for analyzing the sounds of speech; the identification of the analyzed sounds; the encoding, coding, and decoding of the sounds for the operation of the actuating mechanism; the design of the mechanism for actuating the typewriter. A study has been made of these problems. As a result of this study a simplified model of a phonetic typewriter has been developed incorporating all of these aspects. This model serves to illustrate the principles involved and provides means for further study towards a complete system."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"For more than a quarter of a century the normal broadcast receiver has been equipped with a single loudspeaker fitted inside the cabinet. The introduction of sets with two separate speakers, each reproducing part of the frequency spectrum on the Philips \"Bi-Ampli\" principle, dates only from the last few years. The installation described goes a big step further, the loudspeakers berg entirely separated from the amplifying part; two low-note speakers are housed together in a special cabinet and two high-note speakers separately in their own boxes. The quality of reproduction has been remarkably improved in this way, which appears to full advantage with fm reception and the playback of gramophone records or tape recordings."
"The amplifier descrbied in this paper has an input resistance of approximately 400,000 ohms in the audio-frequency range. The output noise level is equivalent to 5 µv at the input terminals with a response that is down 3 db at 5 cycles and at 100 kc. The amplifier has been designed in a self-contained package, the size of a frozen orange juice can suitable for plugging into the standard banana plug terminals of a sensitive vacuum tube voltmeter. The design may be modified, with considerable reduction in volume, to incorporate the amplifier in a small package with a low signal source."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Articles published outside of the IRE thought be of special interest to the members of the IRE Professional Group on Audio, are abstracted here. Additional articles of interest are also noted."
"The electrical and physical parameters which are of interest in loudspeaker design are discussed. The analysis of loudspeaker action on the basis of its analogy to a vibrating rigid disk is presented. The limitations of such an analysis are indicated. Electromechanical analogies are used to formulate an equivalent electro-mechanical circuit from which loudspeaker performance factors can be derived. Design criteria for commercial and \"hi-fi\" units are developed. Means of improving loudspeaker performance, particularly at low audio frequencies, are discussed."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This paper describes a simple means of hum balance for a magnetic recording pickup head. Hum level improvements of approximately 20 db are obtained in both single and double coil pickup heads by the method described in this paper."
"This paper describes the important factors to be considered in the construction of a home music room. The effects of reverberation, room resonances, sound diffusion, and noise are considered. Special consideration is given to the control of acoustical conditions, and a room in which many of these factors have been taken into account, is described."
"It is pointed out that an avoidable error occurs in making total harmonic distortion measurements by the usually recommended method with art instrument incorporating art average-responding output meter. The error arises from the fact that the average value of a full-wave rectified distortion signal can be reduced by adding a small phase-shifted fundamental component to the distortion. The error is always in the direction to make equipment seem better than it actually is and can amount to ten per cent or more. It can be readily avoided by changing the instrument operating procedure."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to Society memebers as well as the rest of the engineering community."
"Describes the above-named upcoming conference event. May include topics to be covered or calls for papers."
"Articles published outside of the IRE thought be of special interest to the members of the IRE Professional Group on Audio, are abstracted here. Additional articles of interest are also noted."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Summary form only given. This paper describes the use of transistors in phase regulated power supplies. This type of power supply, which has been implemented previously with thyratrans, theoretically entails no dissipation in the regulator circuits. The regulator transistors are operated as rectifying switches whose conduction phase with respect to the ac supply voltage can be controlled over a 90° range. With an inductance input filter, current flow occurs in each switch as square waves of a magnitude dependent on the conduction phase of the switches. Voltage regulation is obtained by feedback control of the conduction phase of the transistor switches to maintain a constant output voltage with variation in input voltage and load impedance. Because of the efficient switch properties of transistors, this type of power supply regulation results in extremely low transistor dissipation."
"Summary form only given. The requirements for an oscillator may be met in a low-power feedback circuit rather than in the high-power output circuit. A small saturable transformer is used to supplythe transistor drive requirements in the improved squarewave oscillator circuit. The feedback transformer derives its primary power for sufficient positive feedback from the output circuit either as a voltagedependent signal, a current-dependent signal, or a combination of both. Mter a period of time, the feedback transformer core saturates and the impedance of the feedback circuit causes a reduction in feedback power. Consequent! y, the loop gain becomes less than unity and the energy stored in the feedback circuit or in the output circuit institutes reversai. With this circuit, oscillator performance can be improved and the severity of duty on the transistor appreciably reduced."
"Provides an abstract of the presentation and a brief professional biography of the presenter. The complete presentation was not made available for publication as part of the conference proceedings."
"Provides an abstract of the presentation and a brief professional biography of the presenter. The complete presentation was not made available for publication as part of the conference proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"This paper is concerned with a class of oscillators having otùy two intrinsic windings on the core. lt is capable of true square-wave output at 700 kc.; the upper frequency limit being determined by the present state of the art of transistor development. On the basic two-winding oscillator described, the collector winding of the OFF transistor itself supplies the necessary regenerative voltage to the base of the ON transistor. The parallel RC's in the base circuits speed up the turn off action by application of inverse current to the ON base. Direct electrical crossconnection from the ON base to the OFF collector means that at switchover the in ver se transient voltage, due to flyback, will momentarily place the OFF transistor into inverse saturated conduction, thereby presupplying it with holes so that it can take on its load in the forward direction extremely rapidly when the ON transistor shuts off. With this circuit, selfstarting is inherent due to the direct connections from base to negative supply. The transistors used are SB-lOO's (low saturation resistance), and the switching flux of the core is 0.04 microwebers."
"Provides an abstract of the presentation and a brief professional biography of the presenter. The complete presentation was not made available for publication as part of the conference proceedings."
"Summary form only given. Essential to good sweep linearity in a bootstrap sweep generator is high input impedance and a gain which is close to one in the unity gain isolation amplifier which is used. It is shown that an emitter follower circuit is capable of providing a gain which is very close to unity due to the inherently high transconductance of a transistor. A method of bootstrapping the collector of the emitter follower is given which is used to obtain an ultra high input impedance to this unity gain amplifier. The \"bootstrapped collector emitter follower\" circuit is used in the bootstrap sweep generator to provide a 105 volt sweep which has good linearity. In addition to providing an ultra high input impedance, the bootstrapped collector emitter follower allows the use oflow voltage transistors to obtain emitter followers that can handle high voltages."
"Summary form only given. An approach to the problem of the design of transistor wide-band feedback amplifiers is given. Choice of feedback circuit configurations for the stabilization of amplifier circuit transconductance, transresistance, and current gain are discussed in terms of an idealized phase-reversing amplifier. A composite stage including two transistors which may be made to approach this idealized amplifier is described, including considerations of biasing, asymp totic high frequency cutoff characteristic, and composite hybrid parameters."
"Provides an abstract of the presentation and a brief professional biography of the presenter. The complete presentation was not made available for publication as part of the conference proceedings."
"Provides an abstract of the presentation and a brief professional biography of the presenter. The complete presentation was not made available for publication as part of the conference proceedings."
"Summary form only given. A transistor monostable circuit using complementary transistors is described. The unique property of transistors in this application results in certain advantages compared to the transistor monostable circuit directly analogous to a tube monostable multivibrator. These are: 1. Higher inherent charge to discharge ratio (Le., faster recovery time) for the timing capacitor. 2. Both transistors are off during the timing cycle providing relative circuiitn sensitivity to transistor variation. Analysis of circuit operation and timing is given, and the effects of temperature on circuit reliability is discussed."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The complementary pair family of circuits can yield great economy in digital computer design, as has been shown in the preceding paper. One member of this family is attractive, because of its simplicity, in those situations where the ultimate in speed and load handling capacity is not required. If it were possible to allow saturation in the transistors, a very simple bistable element would result. In general, ·this is not permissible, for the degradation of performance is too severe. By application of a new principle, which has been called by the author that of \"Controlled Saturation,\" one of the transistors may be allowed to saturate without undue performance deterioration. Then the other transistor may be prevented from saturating at a cost of only a single resistor. The paper first describes the process of Controlled Saturation, and then shows the synthesis of a practical trigger circuit employing it."
"Provides an abstract of the presentation and a brief professional biography of the presenter. The complete presentation was not made available for publication as part of the conference proceedings."
"If transistor switching circuits are to be developed having response times limited by the bandwidths of the transistors operating as amplifiera and by diffusion or transit time delay, it becomes necessary to avoid operation in saturation. Since a low collector-to-base voltage has a detrimental effect on transistor bandwidths, it is desireable, as well, to avoid operation near saturation. A technique has been developed for the design of non-saturating transistor circuits where weil specified currents are switched with small associated voltage swings. The basic principle of the mode of operation is the switching of a constant current from the emitters of one group of transistors into the emitters of another group of transistors. Logical outputs are taken from parallel combinations of transistor collectors. The resulting logical circuits reset their own levels."
"Provides an abstract of the presentation and a brief professional biography of the presenter. The complete presentation was not made available for publication as part of the conference proceedings."
"Summary form only given. It is known that the operating point of a transistor has a tendency to shift with temperature. An analysis is made of the factors contributing to this shift. It is found necessary to define two stability factors for an adequate formulation of the bias problem. The se factors, together with the voltage and current defining the operating point, are used in the design of bias networks. Various stabilization circuits are considered in detail, and design procedures set up for these schemes. A comparison is made of the various schemes; in particular, direct and feedback stabilization are compared on the basis of battery drain, AC gain, and variation of operating point with battery voltage. The stabilization of direct coupled stages is also discussed, and the design of a two-stage direct-coupled pair is taken up in detail. Non-linear techniques for temperature stabilization are also discussed. These are useful in special applications such as high power output stages, where the temperature changes are extreme, or in low level circuits where extremely stable operation is required, e.g., oscillators and DC amplifiers."
"Summary form only given, as follows. A review is made of the present solid state deviees used for handling digital information. Semiconductor diodes and the unique properties of the transistor are briefly discussed. A more detailed discussion of magnetics includes the random ac cess memory ar rays, of cores, of holes in a plate, or of islands of evaporated films; various types of magnetic decoding and encoding switches; shüt registers; current and voltage driven circuits; the principle of current steering; transistor coupled circuits; the principle of the transfluxor; transfluxor logic circuits; transfluxor current steering; and non-destructive read-out memories. The potentialities of a numberofphenomenaas yet not widely exploited are dîscussed. This includes ferroelectric, electro-optical, and magneto-resistive effects."
"This paper reports the results of a number of tests made on a group of PNP alloy junction transistors whose power rating at the usual operating temperature is 30 milliwatts and whose cut-off frequency is about 3 megacycles. The tests show that as the temperature of the transistor is lowered, both the maximum power dissipation and the cut-off frequency are increased, thus making it possible for the rise-time of output pulses and the magnitude of the current output to be considerably improved."
"This paper describes a method of rapidly evaluating the switching speed of transistors by means of a fully automatic tester suitable for factory use. A transistor may be plugged into the tester and after a brief settling time, a voltage proportional to the expected switching speed appears on a meter or permanent recording device. Because of the non-linear nature of transistors, the test is restricted by the necessity for making the measurement using a circuit configuration resembling that of the intended application."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The avalanche mode of operation for junction transistors is encountered at higher-than-normal collector voltages. In this avalanche region of operation the electrical character of the junctiontransistor is profoundly altered because of a voltage sensitive current-multiplication occurring at the collector junction. Current controlled N-type negative resistance characteristics suitable for bistable operation are obtained. Important features of these characteristics can be treated analytically to obtain results suitable for design purposes. Important properties associated with the avalanche mode of operation are summarized. The collector characteristics and the emitter input characteristic obtained with avalanche operation are compared and discussed. An equivalent circuit, descriptive of the effect of the avalanche current multiplication, is presented together with basic relationships useful for circuit design. Twelve experimental avalanche-operated junction transistors have been used in a decade ring counter and driver. This represents a saving of two to one in semicoliductor devices, as contrasted to the use of conventionally operated junction transistors for the same function. A like saving of other components is obtained. The ring counter uses a new method of count transfer which provides improved reliability and higher counting speed capability. The driver and counter achieve operation to 500 kc using transistors having a frequency of β cut-off in the range 30 to 40 kc for conventional operation. The counter operates to 300 kc cover atemperature range from below -50°C to +5O°C without compensation or optimized design."
"Drum recording is accomplished bypassingcurrent through a magnetically soft write head placed in close proximity to a magnetically hard drum surface. Flux from the head resulta in magnetized areas on the drum surface. Drum coatings and heads presently in use require writing currents in the order of 1 ampere. Head impedances are typically 2 to 5 ohms. This means the writing circuit must supply severa! watts of power. The use of the following three basic circuits is outlined: power one-shots, bloc king oscillators, and class B amplifiera."
"Presents the opening message at the 1957 IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference."
"Provides an abstract of the presentation and a brief professional biography of the presenter. The complete presentation was not made available for publication as part of the conference proceedings."
"Provides an abstract of the presentation and a brief professional biography of the presenter. The complete presentation was not made available for publication as part of the conference proceedings."
"Provides an abstract of the presentation and a brief professional biography of the presenter. The complete presentation was not made available for publication as part of the conference proceedings."
"Provides an abstract of the presentation and a brief professional biography of the presenter. The complete presentation was not made available for publication as part of the conference proceedings."
"Provides an abstract of the presentation and a brief professional biography of the presenter. The complete presentation was not made available for publication as part of the conference proceedings."
"Provides an abstract of the presentation and a brief professional biography of the presenter. The complete presentation was not made available for publication as part of the conference proceedings."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Provides an abstract of the presentation and a brief professional biography of the presenter. The complete presentation was not made available for publication as part of the conference proceedings."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Power transistor circuits are characterized by the fact that the collector current must swing over a wide range of values during any complete cycle of operation. One disadvantage of present-day alloyed junction power transistors is that the current gain decreases with increasing collector current. This causes distortion in linear applications and makes temperature stabilization in switching circuits more difficult. Power transistors having emitter areas large enough to handle currents in the amperes range can be made as tetrodes by use of an annular ring geometry. Experimental results show that the gain characteristics can be altered by applying a bias voltage or a portion of the signal voltage transversely across the base. The gain characteristic can be made flatter for improved fidelity in audio applications, or even reversed to give increasing gain with collector current for certain switching applications. Practical circuitry utilizing the improved gain characteristics of power tetrodes has been developed, and the annular geometry permits the fabrication of tetrodes using conventional alloying techniques."
"The effect of collector depletion layer capacity on the transient response of junction transistors to a current input is calculated for the case of a resistive load. Expressions are given for the small-signal rise-time of the common-base, emitter, and collector configurations and for the large-signal turn-on and decay times of the common-emitter and collector configurations. The analysis shows that the transient durations under most conditions of operation are approximately (1 + \\omega_{\\alpha}R_{L}C_{c}) times those which would be predicted for the short-circuit output approximation reported by Moll [1]. Experimental results are reported which exhibit an excellent agreement with the analysis over a wide range of\\omega_{\\alpha}R_{L}C_{c}. An empirical examination has been made of the dependence of large-signal switching time on the range of operating point excursion. A satisfactory approximate representation of this dependence is provided by a first-order correction factor, which takes into account the functional dependence of ωαand Ccon collector voltage."
"In certain p-n junctions, such as those made by the alloy method, edges on the junction surface will, by field concentration, lead to lower inverse breakdown voltages than would otherwise be obtained. These edges are approximated by pieces of circular cylinders, and a formula for the voltage breakdown of a circular cylindrical junction obtained. The results agree qualitatively with those found for certain alloy-type diodes."
"The effect of base-width modulation on the exact small-signal, high-frequency equivalent circuit of p-n-p (and n-p-n) junction transistors is examined. It is found that (except for the effect on the base spreading resistance) base-width modulation only helps to determine the magnitude of one element. Failure to recognize this fact has resulted in the past in the \"discovery\" of \"new\" elements and the creation of a multiplicity of equivalent circuits. Through the use of an engineering approach, the most important of these circuits are related to the exact circuit, and hence their degree of approximation becomes apparent. The effect of a high injection level of minority carriers is also mentioned. Finally, the equivalent circuit of p-n-i-p (and n-p-i-n) transistors is discussed."
"An approximate formula is developed for the current of a parallel-plane diode including the effects of initial velocities of emission. For an oxide-coated cathode (T = 1000°K) the approximate result is:J = 2.33 \\times 10^{-6} \\frac{V^{3/2}}{x^{2}} \\cdot[1 + \\frac{11.4(J_{s}x^{2})^{1/4}}{V^{3/4}} + \\frac{3.22(J_{s}x^{2})^{1/8}}{V^{3/2}}]where,J, Js, andxare in suitable units such that Jx2andJ_{s}x^{2}are in amperes and V in volts. A comparison is made between this result, Child's 3/2 power solution, and the Epstein-Fry-Langmuir solution. The result given above being an explicit solution of the current is particularly advantageous over prior approximate solutions."
"The problem of designing backward-wave amplifiers to yield specified pass band characteristics is discussed. Detailed universal curves of gain and bandwidth for both single-circuit and cascade amplifiers are presented. Simple charts are developed which facilitate the design procedure. Experimental results are correlated with the theory and indicate its usefulness. The skirt-selectivity of cascade amplifiers is discussed. A specific design example is given to demonstrate the design method and to indicate the range of bandwidths obtainable from helix-type amplifiers."
"Frequency and transient response equations for the current-transfer ratios of the double-base diode are calculated from theory and checked experimentally. To obtain these results, the device is operated as a small signal amplifier in the negative-resistance region and the frequency response characteristics thus obtained are used to predict the device behavior. The effects of carrier recombination and electric field upon the response characteristics are evaluated and experimental results are presented."
"The Theory of Mendel, Quate, and Yocum is extended to include experimental and analytical examination of magnetic fields whose axial variation is periodic, but not sinusoidal. Magnetic fields of this type are encountered in many typical periodic focusing structures. Minimum-ripple flow is achieved by setting the rms value of the magnetic field equal to the Brillouin value of the field. The fraction of a beam current traversing a long hollow drift tube has been measured as a function of the amount of departure of the magnetic field variation from a sinusoidal one."
"The effects due to the dc field of the space charge in a reflex klystron have been calculated on a digital computer. It is found that the electronic efficiency may be reduced by a factor as large as 10 under space charge conditions which may exist in a typical low-voltage tube. Small signal theories which include the effects of the dc space charge are presented for the reflex klystron and two-gap klystron amplifiers and oscillators. The small signal theory is used primarily to aid in the interpretation of the computer calculations. The theory predicts that the efficiency of the two-gap oscillator may be reduced by a factor no greater than 3.7, but that the power gain of the two-cavity amplifier may be increased by as much as 13.7. It is also found that the inclusion of space charge effects will in general require different applied dc voltages for operation at the center of the various electronic modes, as compared with the infinitesimal-space-charge conditions. Upon comparing the theoretical calculations with actual reflex klystron data, it has been found that the theory adequately explains the behavior of the power output, efficiency, and electronic bandwidth as the beam current is varied, for conditions of moderate or small space charge. For conditions of large space charge the theoretical model does not represent the conditions in an actual tube with sufficient accuracy; it is pointed out how the theory may be improved and how the present work may be useful as a starting point for further calculations."
"This paper describes a high-speed gate circuit for an information sampling system employing the E8OT beam deflection tube. The time required to open this gate fully is less than 7 milli-microseconds. This gate is superior to conventional multigrid gates in that the circuits are less complex, more reliable and have only minimal signal feed-through. Furthermore, a preliminary stage of pulse stretching is available without additional circuit elements."
"One type of color tube, often referred to as the post acceleration color tube, requires a gun of unique design. The gun operates at relatively low voltages of 5000 to 7000 volts as compared with 20,000 to 30,000 volts in other types of color tubes. The tricolor gun assembly described consists of three individual guns arranged in a plane. This limits the inside diameter of the electrodes to 0.358 inch as compared with half an inch or more in conventional guns. The individual guns are either triodes or tetrodes with periodic focusing. In spite of the above mentioned restrictions the spot size is about 0.038 inch at 300 microamperes screen current per gun and 7000 volts anode voltage. The depth of focus is very satisfactory because of small beam diameter."
"Periodic traveling-wave tube gain fluctuations with frequency are described in terms of fundamental tube parameters and readily measurable quantities using the simplified one-wave theory of Pierce. An analysis of the feedback existing in a traveling-wave amplifier due to mismatches in the discontinuity regions is presented. Thus, the form, periodicity, and magnitude of these fluctuations and their dependence upon the beam voltage are quantitatively determined. The microwave structure is analyzed from a network point of view and the circuit parameters are defined with mismatches in the lumped center attenuator and at the ends of the slow-wave transmission line. The gain fluctuations are related to the cold circuit parameters and standing wave measurements. Pertinent experimental data, indicating the correlation of gain fluctuations to vswr variations, are included, in addition to an elementary discussion of the distortion effects possible due to such periodic gain variations in a traveling-wave tube."
"The development and performance of a high gain medium power traveling-wave amplifier are described. Powers up to 7 watts at 15 per cent efficiency have been achieved. The small signal gain approaches 50 db in the middle of the band, and exceeds 35 db over a 2 to 1 range of frequencies. The tube itself consists of a glass-supported helix with a metal shell at one end housing the cathode structure, and a copper collector at the other end. The input and output couplings are made by means of coupled helices which are mounted in a brass tube or matching structure which is external to the vacuum envelope. The matching structure is supported in the focusing solenoid."
"An analysis of the potential-minimum region in the microwave diode is presented which predicts the amount of noise convection current at the potential minimum under conditions present in guns of low-noise traveling-wave tubes and klystrons. Contrary to previous work by one of the authors, this analysis partially includes the effects of finite transit angle between the cathode and potential minimum. The results indicate that under certain conditions of space-charge limitation, the noise convection current may be larger than full shot noise, whereas under other conditions reduction by as much as a factor of four may be obtained. When the results of this work are applied to the noise-figure theory of traveling-wave tubes and klystrons, it is found that their minimum obtainable noise figure may be in the vicinity of 4 db rather than the previously predicted 6 db with reasonable cathode current densities. For very large current densities or low operating frequencies, the present theory indicates that there is no theoretical limit to the minimum noise figure of such devices, in agreement with the previous work."
"A physical picture of electron-wave interaction, electron bunching, and energy exchange in the traveling-wave tube is obtained by a study of the problem of electrons moving in a traveling electromagnetic wave of constant amplitude. This very simple analysis results in an easily understood qualitative description of the details of the interaction mechanism at large signal within an operating traveling-wave tube."
"This paper presents the basic theories underlying the principles of operation of linear beam tubes. These theories are more general than the previous ones because they can be applied equally well to all types of tubes using linear electron beams. The tube types will differ only in the rf circuits that are being used. Emphasis of the theories is placed on the fundamental equations involved rather than the analytic solutions of these equations. The concept of electromagnetic and hydrodynamic power flow is emphasized in the treatments. The purpose is to leave the details of the solution to the electronic computer that is now being adapted to this type of problem. To this end, the equations are only developed in such a way as to facilitate programming in the computer. To illustrate the use of the theory, the special cases of the traveling-wave tube in which a waveguide mode is continuously interacting with the beam, and the klystron tube in which the interaction takes place in a limited space, will be developed in more detail. To further avoid mathematical complexities, electron motion, limited to the longitudinal direction, will be emphasized, and only the small-signal case will be treated. However, sufficient fundamental ideas will be presented so that the extension to the cases involving transverse electron motions and the large signal operation can be easily accomplished."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"When a semiconductor diode is caused suddenly to pass forward current, the voltage across it shows a transient, overshooting its steady-state value. This transient behavior is analyzed with the help of a recently given theory of forward current and high-level minority carrier injection in the diodes, with special attention to types of diode often used in pulse circuits, where these transients may be important. The waveform of the transient is calculated for a hypothetical diode with characteristics similar to some types in common use, and it is found to be very similar to those actually observed."
"Methods are described for the determination of the high-frequency parameters of junction and surface barrier transistors and involve, in addition to the knowledge of the usual low-frequency parameters, measurement of the product of Ccand the extrinsic base resistancer_{b0},r_{b0}itself, and the alpha cutoff frequency fα. A previously described method is used to determine the productr_{b0}C_{c}, but new methods are described for the measurement ofr_{b0}and fα. The measurements are of \"bridge\" type, involving simple circuit adjustments for a response null at a single frequency. Typical experimental results are given for transistors having fαvalues as high as 85 mc, Ccvalues down to 2.3 pF andr_{b0}ranging from 45 to 400 ohms. The limits quoted for fαand Ccrefer to surface barrier transistors. Comparison with results derived by alternative methods of measurement show good agreement."
"A modified Western Electric 4J52 magnetron has been constructed in which provision was made for displacing the cathode laterally in a controlled and measurable way while the tube was in operation. In all the tests which were made, it was found that the operation of the magnetron was best when the cathode was on center. As the cathode was displaced laterally in any direction the efficiency decreased, the frequency pushing increased, the spectrum deteriorated, and the back-heating of the cathode increased, while the pulling figure, the Q's, and the circuit efficiency remained unchanged. None of these quantities was sharply dependent on cathode position when the cathode was near center. Displacement of the cathode from center by a distance as large as 6 per cent of the nominal cathode-anode spacing produced negligible changes in operation, as far as the factors listed above are concerned. Preliminary and less precise results on starting-time jitter, and pulse-to-pulse amplitude and frequency jitter indicate that the same conclusion may be drawn about these factors."
"The aperture lens formula of Davisson and Calbick is rederived to include the effect of space charge forces. The correction is applied to a parallel flow Pierce gun, leading to the focal length reduction as a function of perveance, e.g., 30 per cent reduction at perveance 3 × 10-6."
"The dc focusing characteristics of a cylindrical electron stream totally immersed in a uniform axial magnetic field are studied for the condition of laminar electron flow. The magnitude and wavelength of the beam radius perturbations and the angular velocity of precession of the electrons are determined as functions of the magnetic field, space-charge density, and initial injection slope."
"A brief summary of some new computations of the incremental propagation constants for a traveling-wave tube is presented in the form of graphs. The data includes values of the wave growth factor x1for larger values of the loss parameterd. The computations for large values of the space-charge parameterQCand of the gain parameterChave revealed an anomalous propagation region for negative ranges of the velocity parameter b, which shows the transition from resistive-wall type interaction to the usual traveling-wave tube type interaction."
"A glow discharge voltage reference tube constructed entirely of ceramic and metal has been developed. Minimum size (T2), extreme ruggedness, and unusual electrical stability characterize the tube. Operating voltage is approximately 85 v. Performance of the reference tube under conditions of shock, vibration, high temperature, and high altitude is described. Operating voltage stability over extended periods is demonstrated by presenting the results of precision measurements. Other aspects, such as temperature coefficient, ionization voltage, and the slope and smoothness of the voltage-current characteristic are discussed."
"Good broad-band microwave limiters can be built by appropriately modifying conventional traveling-wave tubes. For example, with a single one-watt tube modified suitably the output power could be held constant to within ±½ db over a range of input power of approximately 20 db. By modifying two such tubes in the proper way and using them in cascade the range of input power for limiting could be increased to greater than 45 db, and this accomplished over a 700-mc frequency range centered at S band. This was done with commercially available traveling-wave tubes. All the necessary modifications were made from outside the tube envelope. Experimental results indicate that beam saturation for these tubes when operated conventionally occurs first under the attenuator section. By increasing the gain between the attenuator and the output coupler, the beam saturation can be made to occur first under the output coupler. This fact was of great use in the development of the limiters."
"A high-sensibility cathode-ray tube has been developed for the photographic recording of transients in the millimicrosecond region. The new cathode-ray tube uses a traveling-wave deflection system with magnetic focusing and attains a spot diameter of 0.001 inch. The first models have a sensibility of 0.026 volt/trace width and a writing speed of 1011trace widths/second. Improved production models are expected to have sensibilities of less than 0.02 volt/trace width. In this particular application, sensibility in volts per trace width and writing speed in trace widths per second are the significant performance characteristics. Analysis of the dependency of these on several important parameters in the general cathode-ray tube design shows that the use of a much smaller spot and display than is conventional results in large gains in sensibility. Analysis also indicates that maximum sensibility is achieved with the deflection plates located in the lens region. Magnetic focusing is used to permit this optimum deflection plate location. To allow the choice of long plates with short effective transit time, a traveling-wave deflection system is employed. Postdeflection acceleration is introduced to obtain high writing speeds."
"A solution of the initial value problem for the three-wave formulation of the traveling-wave tube equations is obtained in the form of a series in powers of βCz, whose coefficients are evaluated recursively without solving the determinantal equation."
"This paper describes the salient features of a magnetron which attained by the spring of 1953 a peak power of up to 10 megawatts at 10 microseconds pulse duration and 17 kilowatts average power. There was little previous knowledge or experience available for guidance at the time (1947) the development was started. Among the most important problems which had to be solved were: 1) The establishment of reliable criteria of π-mode stability as guides for high power magnetron design; 2) the development of a microwave window of sufficient bandwidth for lower order mode loading and which would permit operation of the tube at full power in air at atmospheric pressure; 3) the development of a cathode capable of withstanding high back bombardment power with reasonable life; 4) the development of methods for fabricating a large magnetron; 5) the elimination of voltage breakdown in various parts of the magnetron; 6) the development of a modulator to produce and measure 2 to 10-microsecond pulses up to 100 kilovolts and up to 400 amperes; and 7) the development of a calorimetric load of low thermal capacity for testing the magnetron at full power. This paper is intended to assist the designers of magnetrons and systems to better appreciate: 1) The problems involved in the simultaneous attainment of multimegawatt power levels at long pulse durations, long wavelength and high duty; 2) what has been accomplished in this regime with magnetrons; and 3) that the experimental material given in the discussion is representative of an advance in magnetron art and not necessarily a limitation of what can be expected by way of performance from the pulsed magnetron."
"Until now there has been no general method available for taking into account the effect of the electron beam on coupled-structure couplers and attenuators for traveling-wave tubes. This paper presents an analytical procedure for this purpose based on the coupled mode approach of S. E. Miller and J. R. Pierce. It is valid for loosely coupled structures with small loss, only one of which is coupled directly to the beam. In addition to other relations, a general root equation is developed which takes into account loss in either or both of the coupled structures, space charge in the beam, and the possibility of different phase velocities in each structure. Typical plots of the incremental wave parameters are shown. An experimental verification of the theory is presented that shows that predictions made by means of it will be fair to good."
"Detailed calculations of the starting conditions for backward-wave oscillations were carried out in the region 0 < QC < 0.25. The coupled-mode theory is called upon to explain the complex nature of the propagation constants for backward-wave interaction."
"Design and construction of research models of two backward-wave oscillators, covering the bands 7.6-12.4 and 11.6- 18.0 kmc, is described. These tubes are tuned purely electronically and cover their tuning ranges continuously with a power output of 25-mw absolute minimum. The highest electrode voltage used is 2100 volts; the over-all weight is about 7 pounds. These properties are achieved through a novel tube design which enables reduction of tube diameter where it is within the solenoid, and through use of a novel split magnet and rf match idea to enable reduction in necessary solenoid inner diameter."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Point contact rectifiers have long been reputed to be unsusceptible to analysis. Although some features of their behavior are still poorly understood, there are a number of aspects which probably can be described quantitatively. In these cases, the difficulties are due to the complexity of the mathematical analysis rather than a lack of basic understanding. The approaches used in the theoretical analysis of two aspects of point contacts are discussed: the forward characteristics at moderately high currents, and the breakdown in the reverse direction. For the former, a theoretical solution is obtained for a hemispherical p-n junction. The computed curves agree qualitatively with experimental ones; a quantitative check is complicated by the need to compute curves for many different parameters. The breakdown properties of a point contact diode are compared with the theory for avalanche breakdown in a junction where heating occurs. Again, quantitative comparisons have not yet been made, but qualitative agreement encourages one to use the theory for obtaining design criteria in developmental work."
"The transition capacitance of a junction of semiconductors with constant impurity density is well-known and varies inversely with the square root of the bias voltage. This paper analyzes the variation of transition capacitance with bias voltage of a junction of semiconductors with graded impurity densities; i. e., densities which are an arbitrary function of position. It is found that the transition capacitance can be simply related to a depletion width and that, in turn, depletion width can be related to the bias voltage. An analysis is also carried out for the impurity grading to produce a specified transition capacitance variation, as for instance, a linear variation of capacitance with bias voltage. It is also possible to determine impurity gradings to satisfy certain special conditions. An example of this type that is considered in some detail is the determination of the impurity grading which will produce avalanche breakdown simultaneously throughout the semiconductor. An important result of the analysis is that the capacitance vs bias voltage relation can be favorably modified by suitable choice of impurity grading (see Fig. 7). The practical realization of the various characteristics considered in this article is contingent upon techniques for fabricating semiconductors with specified impurity gradings."
"A three-dimensional analytic solution for the alpha of junction transistors with extended base region is presented in terms of arbitrary volume and surface recombination. The method also accommodates emitter and collector junctions of different size, as commonly encountered in high alpha alloy junction transistors. In principle, the solution can be carried to any desired degree of accuracy, but the large amount of labor involved in numerical evaluation of useful examples seriously impairs the practical value and for this reason the solution in its present form may well be largely of academic interest only."
"The transient signal which results from the characteristics of a low-velocity electron beam and the capacitance of the scanned surface has been calculated. A very slow transient of the hyperbolic type can result if the scanned surface is stabilized at a retarding field potential. The calculations have been verified by tests on a 6198 Vidicon, which was taken as an example. For this tube, the relative contributions of the \"electronic transient\" and the photoconductive decay to the observed transient response were determined. They make comparable contributions to the total transient."
"General equations are derived, giving the amplitudes of noise current and velocity for the many modes of space-charge wave propagation in an electron beam. The properties of the cathode taken into consideration are the current density and the emission velocity distribution as a function of position. Simplified cases are considered which show the order of magnitude of effects due to cathode nonuniformity and magnetic field strength. From present evidence, it can be shown that high noise figure in low noise tubes is almost certainly due to excess noise velocity, brought about by cathode nonuniformities. Suggestions are given for reducing these undesirable effects."
"A step-by-step procedure for designing low-noise traveling-wave tubes is presented in this paper. The procedure permits the rapid calculation of the significant design parameters corresponding to the conditions for minimum noise figure. The procedure includes the use of a special transmission-line type chart which facilitates the calculations and aids in understanding the principles involved in achieving low-noise behavior. By using the chart in connection with a second procedure, noise figure variation with frequency and with the tube parameters can be predicted for arbitrary electron gun design. Measured noise figures for two X-band low-noise tubes designed essentially by these procedures agree with the theoretically predicted noise figures to within 1.5 db."
"With the advent of color television, it became very important to regulate the high-voltage supply in the receiver. This paper describes the RCA-6BD4-A and the RCA-6BK4 low-current beam triodes of the sharp cutoff type designed specifically for this purpose. Typical operation of the tubes is described, and the results of an analysis of the regulator circuit are given. When the 6BD4-A is used, the output of a regulated 20,000-volt supply does not drop more than 300 v as the load current is increased from 0 to 1 ma. For the same increase in load current, the output of a regulated 27,000-v supply does not drop more than 500 v. When the 6BK4 is used, the output of a regulated 25,000-v supply does not drop more than 500 v for a similar increase in load current. A feature of the regulator circuit is that variations in output voltage may be kept within plus or minus 1 per cent for input-voltage changes of plus or minus 10 per cent, or the compensation for input-voltage changes may be eliminated while the above compensation for load-current changes is maintained. The requirements of a high-voltage supply for use with the RCA color kinescopes are outlined, and the 5BD4-A and 6BK4 are shown to satisfy the desired specifications."
"An important aspect of the design of traveling-wave amplifiers and backward-wave oscillators for frequencies below 500 mc is the problem of obtaining a tube of reasonably small physical dimensions. Hollow beams of greater perveance than is obtainable with solid beams offer one method of reducing the size of such tubes by permitting operation at a lower voltage and greater gain per wavelength, for a specified beam power, than is possible in a solid beam tube. Some aspects of the design of minimum size hollow-beam forward-wave amplifiers using single helix circuits and backward-wave oscillators using bifilar helix circuits are presented. Several tubes of these types for operation below 500 mc have been built. Amplifier bandwidths and oscillator tuning ranges in excess of four to one in frequency have been obtained experimentally. Amplifier efficiencies in excess of 20 per cent and oscillator efficiencies in excess of 10 per cent have been achieved."
"An analysis of the perturbations in a confined flow beam from a two-anode gun as a result of lens effects at the gun apertures is presented for the case of parallel flow with planar symmetry. The results are presented in the form of plots of the amplitude of the perturbation as a function of the ratio of the final beam voltage at the second anode to the voltage of the first anode. The parameters are the magnetic field and the ratio of spacings between cathode and the first and second anodes. For magnetic fields greater than about twice the Brillouin field corresponding to the first anode voltage, the result is a very broad minimum of perturbation extending over a voltage ratio of the order of thirty to one up to a maximum voltage determined by the spacing ratio. The conditions for exact cancellation of the perturbation introduced at the first anode by the lens action of the second anode are considered, and a convenient chart for determination of these conditions is presented. The lens effect perturbation amplitude is shown to be much greater than that resulting from space charge in the absence of lens effects, except at or very near the voltage and spacing ratio that is correct for cancellation and at relatively low voltages and magnetic fields. It is also shown how these results can be applied to hollow cylindrical beams with and without center conductors."
"The development of a low field, K-band, tunable cw magnetron is described. The major characteristics of the device are presented. The research leading towards the development of the magnetron is outlined. This research program had two major objectives: 1) the study of cathode back-bombardment in cw magnetrons, 2) the study of low field operation. The cathode back-bombardment was found to be closely related to two voltage regions at which large anode currents were drawn without any connection to magnetron operation. The close study of these effects made it possible to eliminate them in cw magnetrons through a particular choice of magnetron parameters. The research program culminated in the development of a low field, K-band, tunable cw magnetron, utilizing capacitive Crown of Thorns tuning. At a fixed operating point, an output power exceeding 10 watts at an efficiency exceeding 5 per cent can be obtained over a tuning range of 7 per cent. The tuning range can be doubled by lowering the output power requirements and making use of two operating points."
"A design of high perveance electron gun has recently been proposed by Müller. An experimental investigation has been made of the electron beams produced from: 1) a gun designed directly from Müller's charts, and 2) a gun whose design is a modification of the Müller design to make it more suitable for high-voltage operation. The perveance in each case was about 2 × 10-6. The distribution of the current density and the profile of the beam were examined, either by allowing the beam to fall on a plate coated with carbon, or by measuring the current passing through a pinhole in a screen which could be moved across the beam at a number of axial positions. Electrostatic experiments showed that the beams were initially annular, but further along the axis the current density became highest at the center. This is attributed to crossing trajectories resulting from lens aberrations in an anode aperture whose diameter is comparable with the cathode-anode spacing. With magnetic focusing, the current density distribution across the beam varied periodically along the axis to an extent which depended critically on the magnetic field conditions in the accelerating region of the gun."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The principles involved in the design of high-power and very high-power transistors are considered in brief. The important factors in high-gain, high-current transistor design are the emitter-injection efficiency, the emitter and collector planarity, and the base-bias high-current falloff. The fabrication techniques involved in the production of transistors to maximize the injection efficiency and planarity (by evaporation of aluminum electrodes) and minimize base bias drop (by choice of optimum emitter geometry), are discussed. The characteristics of devices capable of handling currents in the range from 1 to 10 amperes at very high common-emitter current gains ranging from 50 to above 300 are described."
"It has been suggested that an inductive element should be added to Watkins RC equivalent circuit for the microwave noise current fluctuations at the potential minimum of a diode, and that this added element gives closer agreement with more recent work which shows a pronounced peak in noise current near the plasma resonance,a = \\frac{1}{2}. This paper presents an approximate analytical argument for the inclusion of an inductive element, based on the density-function method of analysis, which predicts the proper value for the inductance and yields a curve of reduction factor vs frequency in agreement with more detailed theories. The value of the inductance is such as to resonate with the capacitance of the potential minimum ata = \\frac{1}{2}. A discussion of the linearity of the potential minimum and of the idealized potential-minimum model is also included."
"An encapsulated input window with an independent gas fill has been incorporated in the design of a broad-band duplexer tube. This design has been effective in separating the interdependence of the high-power characteristics of the tr tube. Recovery time and arc loss are determined predominantly by the input window design, whereas spike leakage energy and flat leakage power are determined by the tube body design. The two portions of the tube are designed independently for optimum performance. The effects of gas pressure and nature of the gas on the behavior of the high-power characteristics have been investigated. The factors determining adequate tube operation are discussed, and experimental data are presented to verify the advantages of the encapsulated structure."
"Multicolor storage tubes for applications with low frame rates have been built by modification of direct-viewing storage tubes. A perforated shadow mask is placed between the three writing guns and the storage surface. This shadow mask allows electrons from each writing gun to strike discrete storage areas, each containing a single aperture in register with a color dot on the view plate. In this way, it is possible to write and store electrical signals independently in adjacent color areas. Factors causing color impurity are described, together with the steps taken to minimize their effects. A tube has been built that shows good color purity in a 6-inch-diameter circle; it has 75 total color dots per inch resolution, 8 foot-lamberts brightness, and about 1-minute persistence. Other possible multicolor storage tube designs are discussed."
"PDF Not Yet Available In IEEE Xplore."
"Summary form only given. The paper gives a brief description of the electrical parameters of the tube including 200-kw peak power, NS-db gain, tunable over 8500-95 mc, and 0.005 duty. This provides the background for the description of the construction techniques used to build a tube to survive 30 g shock and vibrational requirements up to 55 cycles. Unique use of stainless steel and copper in the construction of the individual body blocks is described. Ceramic to metal seal techniques are given, and the details of 600° to 650°C processing are described."
"Summary form only given. A gas switching tube commonly known as a tr tube is an rf energy switch, the operation of which is a function of incident power level. Switch operation is achieved by gaseous ionization. The major problem in the design of gas switching devices has been that of achieving simultaneously, a short recovery time and a low arc loss. This problem has been eliminated by the development of the device described herein. The design objective was to produce a self-contained tr window for operation at very high powers. The arc loss developed by conventional tube design at these high power levels would be sufficient to melt any known window material."
"This presentation was not made available for publication."
"Summary form only given. This paper describes a new type of magnetron in which reflex action of portions of the space-charge spokes controls the operating frequency as a function of the magnetron current. In this reflex magnetron, the resonant structure and the cathode are concentrically positioned and have different potentials. A magnet field is provided parallel to the axes of the cathode to produce magnetron action. An electrode positioned in the space outside the vane tips of the magnetron causes portions of the space-charge spokes to pass into this outer space and then return, or be reflexed, to the vane tips where they are collected. The electrons which enter the outer space change angular velocity with respect to the angular velocity of the electrons in the spokes. Consequently, when these electrons return to the vane tips, they change or control the frequency of the oscillations."
"Summary form only given. The Amplitron discussed in this paper is a crossed-field, backward-wave, traveling-wave tube (TWT) amplifier of cylindrical cross section in contrast to longitudinal TWTs. The design objective was to produce an Amplitron with 4 Mwatt of peak power output, a gain of 10 db, and with high efficiency over a frequency range of 1250-1350 mc. In order to keep both the anode structure and cathode reasonably small, it was decided to use a minimum of 70 kv of dc potential. Experimentally it turned out that 87 to 92 kv of dc potential with magnetic fields of 1700 to 1900 Gauss produced the desired output power and gain with over-all efficiency of 62 to 65%."
"This presentation was not made available for publication."
"This presentation was not made available for publication."
"This presentation was not made available for publication."
"Summary form only given. A primary design consideration for a commercial microwave heating unit is low cost for the oscillator tube, the power supply, and the associated control circuits. This paper describes a magnetron design which makes possible price reduction in all these areas. In order to achieve a magnetron with these characteristics, it was necessary to depart, to some degree, from the conventional magnetron geometry. These departures from convention which will be described were of a mechanical and an electrical nature. They include: a new type of \"dipole type output system whereby the anode radiates directly into the load waveguide, use of the high-voltage bushings as output windows, and an all-welded assembly which permits unitized tube assembly and removal of all packaging parts from the tube, incorporating them in the tube socket. In addition, this output system resulted in this magnetron having a high mode boundary which made possible operation from an unrectified, unfiltered, power supply. With all these characteristics designed into the tube, it will be pointed out how this magnetron was capable of passing rigid test specifications. The magnetron described was developed for operation in the S-band microwave heating band. It is possible to modify this magnetron in such a manner that it can work in the L-band microwave heating band without changing its operating characteristics or dimensions."
"Summary form only given. Experiments directed towards improved stabilization of the characteristics of germanium alloy junction trandstors have emphasized. in the past, the \"environmental\" phase of device reliability. The selection of the best possible atmosphere and the development of suitable envelopes for the transistor element were the primary objectives of this early work. A critical review of investigations intended to reveal the effects of environment indicates, however, that suitable atmospheres and seals do not alone assure a reliable device performance. Further, these experiments suggest that additional improvements in device reliability may be derived by adjustments in the final surface treatment given the transistor immediately prior to envelope closure."
"Summary form only given. An electric analog of heat flow in a power transistor has been constructed using lumped noninductive transmission lines. The analog is made up of three lines representing the emitter region, the base region, and the collector region. The constants for the transmission fines are computed from the physical dimensions and physical constants of the transistor. The analog gives a picture of the transit temperature of the emitter junction and the collector junction as well as the temperature at any point along the heat flow path."
"Summary form only given. Selected types of low-frequency transistors were exposed to Co∞gamma radiation and to a reactor flux of neutrons. Forward and reverse characteristic curves were photographed as the irradiation progressed. Reverse currents of the emitter and collector junctions were recorded. These data are used to distinguish changes of surface recombination velocity from those associated with the minority carrier lifetime. The character of damage due to gamma and to neutron irradiation is thus identified. Effects upon transistors exposed just to the reactor environment are compared with those due to successive exposure to Co∞gammas and to reactor neutrons."
"Summary form only given. The paper describes the development and performance of an experimental coaxial magnetron. The tube is electronically tunable over a very wide frequency range and, except for harmonic output, can be used as a low-power oscillator with a bandwidth of at least 4 to 1. The tube, a smooth-anode magnetron, is a coaxial structure with an emissive center conductor and an axial magnetic field. It operates in what is termed an electronic mode rather than the traveling-wave mode of cavity magnetrons. Features of this tube, aside from operational characteristics, are simplicity, rugged construction, and practical size. A tube of this type, designed to cover 300 to 1000 mc, is much smaller than other local-oscillator tubes scaled for this frequency region."
"Summary form only given. When the surface of a semiconductor is bombarded by an electron beam, hole-electron pairs are generated in the semiconductor. By choosing a suitable geometry. for a p-n junction with respect to the bombarded surface, a substantial number of the hole-electron pairs are collected by the junction and a current is thus induced. The magnitude of the induced current depends on the incident electron beam current, the accelerating voltage, and the junction bias. For accelerating voltages of 16 kv, induced currents with magnitudes several thousand times greater than the beam currents have been measured. The effect may be used as a high-speed switch in connection with electronic commutation where the back resistance of the junction is modulated by the action of the bombarding electron beam. Such switching action has been demonstrated with rise times less than 0.1 µsec and decay times of the order of microseconds. With the help of special semiconductor designs, various other potential applications utilizing this effect are possible. These include the use of the element as an 1) amplifier, 2) oscillator, 3) frequency multiplier, and 4) rectifier. The design criteria relating to such cases is indicated."
"Summary form only given. This paper describes the development of a round all-glass bulb for use in the RCA 21CYP22 color picture tube. The evolution of this bulb is traced, and various systems used in joining the two-piece bulb are described. These methods included welding of metal flanges, soldering of metal flanges using glass, high-temperature glass sealing, and a new technique, which is described in detail, using a devitrified solder glass. Physical properties of the solder glass are given, and the method used for evaluation of the solder glass and the control tests used to approve material for factory use are outlined."
"Summary form only given. Experiments were performed to obtain design on information on the large signal base input voltage and input impedance of n-p-n switching transistors and p-n-p power transistors, with emphasis on the effects of surface and transistor geometry. The variation of surface recombination velocity was obtained by baking. The variation of transistor geometry included emitter diameter, base ring diameter, and dice thickness. For these experiments, the base resistivity was also varied, The experimental results are compared with calculation results based on theory, and show that the theory may be used to predict quantitatively the base input voltage and input impedance for a given design. The results, as can be expected, deviate in several interesting respects from what is predicted by the small signal or low-injection level base resistance. For example, the base input voltage and input impedance are not appreciably affected by base resistivity. The surface and geometry effects will be presented and discussed in detail."
"Summary form only given. A new pulse tetrode (the X656) has been developed which is intended for applications involving severe shock or vibration. Designed to operate satisfactorily under conditions of 200-g shock or 10-g vibration, the electrical characteristics of this new tube are similar to those of the widely used 4PR60A. Typically, 18 amperes of pulse anode current is available when operating at 20 kv. Several factors contribute to the improved performance. Not only is the tube made of metal and ceramic, but the entire internal supporting structure involves a new design. Basically, this is an internal anode tube with a ceramic envelope. Tube elements are mounted on rigid die-formed cones, rather than on rods or pin supports. Any relative motion between the grids and the cathode is inhibited by means of a ceramic reinforcement pin which is brazed into place."
"Summary form only given. The impedance of a speech tube with double anodes is practically a pure resistance, which is expected to be deduced from some physical quantities, studied in our research. The gap resistance R is inversely proportional to the discharge current, IK, and is reduced by proper construction of the anodes in which the interaction of the two anodes is in its fullness. For example, our experimental tube has an even number of wire anode elements, mounted in a circle having the cathode rod at its center, and these elements are arranged alternatively making two anode groups. In this tube, increasing the pairs of anode, the gap resistance reduces to a minimum value."
"Summary form only given. Misconvergence of the beams in color kinescopes due to deflection has been corrected in the past by the use of dynamic convergence devices. Six independent fields are required to deflect three beams without misconvergence. Conventional deflection yokes supply two of these fields; the remaining four are supplied by convergence magnets. A more general system employs six coexistent deflection fields. Such a system is capable of producing deflection without misconvergence or loss in color purity. This paper discusses the theory and experimental verification of this concept."
"Summary form only given. For the circular disk type of transistor geometry, as commonly used in alloy junction transistors, base spreading resistance is determined by treating it as a boundary value problem. This treatment results from consideration of the over-all behavior of both minority and majority charge carriers in the base region and leads to an expression for base spreading resistance in terms of alpha, frequency, resistivity, and transistor dimensions. Further consideration of this over-all charge carrier behavior leads to a determination of the entire common emitter short circuit input impedance, which is in general complex. Comparison with measurement shows that this impedance, which includes the base spreading resistance, can be accurately calculated over a wide frequency range in terms of dimensions, physical constants, frequency, dc emitter bias, and effective minority carrier lifetime in the base region for small signal operation of low-power alloy junction transistors. Limitations and extensions of the analysis in its present form are discussed."
"Summary form only given. A hydrogen gas triode clipper tube (CH 1078) is in the final developmental stage. The objective of this development is to design a tube capable of operating as a clipper in a line type modulator at a power level of 12.5 megw. A clipper tube is a device employed essentially for circuit protection and regulation. The tube is preferably inserted across the \"far\" end of the pulse forming network in series with a resistive load whose value approximates the network impedance."
"Summary form only given. The discharge current of cold-cathode gas-filled tubes has been effectively controlled by drawing a small lateral current from the discharge while maintaining a constant anode supply voltage. This mechanism, heretofore unreported, enables the glow discharge to be switched both on and off, producing a thyratron, a binary, switch, or a light indicator for computer use. It makes possible a new amplifier tube with current and voltage amplification obtainable in both the Townsend and glow regions of the discharge. Other devices employing this mechanism which have been demonstrated are a controlled frequency relaxation oscillator, a touch control switch, a time delay switch, and a detector of electrostatic charge and ac potential."
"Summary form only given. Optical and electronic techniques have been combined in a precise automatic instrument which rapidly measures and simultaneously records small deviations from the ideal in structures intended to be perfectly periodic. The instrument was primarily developed for measuring pitch uniformity in twt helices where the location of each helical turn must be determined to an accuracy of about ±2 microns. It is, however, readily adaptable for measuring other periodic structures such as ladder lines, grids, and precision screws. The speed and accuracy with which measurements are made have opened up new possibilities in fabrication control. For example, it is now practicable, for the first time, to precisely measure every helix destined for traveling-wave tube use at several different stages in its processing. Where each individual helix measurement formerly required nearly 2 man-days, it is now accomplished in less than 5 minutes. The instrument utilizes a beam of light and an optical grating system to obtain a very accurate scale of distance. The location, with respect to this distance scale, of the salient petiole features in the structure being measured is established through the interception of a second light beam by the structure. Electronic circuitry automatically stores and processes the position information and feeds the processed information, in the form of deviations from the corresponding ideal structure, to a pen recorder."
"Summary form only given. An investigation has been made determining the noise, gain, and bandwidth characteristics of the general variable parameter system (i.e., a system similar to the type proposed by Landon and Suhl for amplification, conversion, and oscillation using ferrites). The basic circuit and its operation are illustrated in the following description. A variable capacitor is connected in series with two parallel resonant tank circuits, the three elements forming a closed loop. If the value of the capacitor is caused to vary sinusoidally about some average value at a frequency equal to the sum of the two resonant frequencies of the tank circuits, under the proper conditions oscillations can be set up in the tanks at their respective frequencies. Power is thus \"pumped\" from the varying capacitor into the tank circuits. Assume that an output load is coupled to one of the tanks and that the capacitor variation is reduced to a value just below the point where oscillations occur. Stable amplification then results for a signal coupled into the loaded tank at the tank's resonant frequency."
"Summary form only given. This paper describes a developmental character-printing tube for use in nonmechanical high-speed printers for computers and data-processing machines. This tube is capable of writing several thousand characters per second. Because the characters are generated photoelectrically by projection of a lantern slide upon a photocathode, type styles may be changed at will. The high resolution of the tube permits the display of characters 0.028-inch high at high instantaneous brightness levels. The elementary theory of the device is outlined briefly, and then the design and the performance characteristics of the tube are described. The tube parameters and necessary light requirements for specified character beam currents are discussed. Character brightness curves for different modes of operations are given, and photographs of the tube and a schematic arrangement of the character formation are shown. The tube operating conditions and parameters involved in a photographic recording system for high-speed recording are outlined."
"Summary form only given. This paper describes two developmental backward-wave oscillators which tune over the frequency ranges from 35 to 50 kmc and from 48 to 74 kmc and deliver power of the order of milliwatts. The tubes incorporate a parallel-flow electron gun using an impregnated cathode, and a tape helix supported by three quartz rods. RF output is taken out through a standard rectangular waveguide, to which the helix is matched by a tapered section having choke collars. Ceramic guns, stems, and output windows developed for use with these tubes are described. The tubes operate at collector currents of 3 to 5 ma, and require a magnetic focusing field of 1200 gauss. The helix voltage is varied from 800 to 3500 volts to cover the complete frequency range of oscillation. Design features are discussed, and calculated and observed performance curves for these tubes are shown."
"Summary form only given. The characteristics of backward-wave amplifiers are briefly reviewed and related to general receiver problems which exist in broad-band high-power systems. It is emphasized that a backward-wave amplifier of sufficiently low noise figure offers potential solution to several of these problems and would be more useful in some cases than a conventional low-noise traveling-wave tube. The problems encountered in noise reduction in backward-wave amplifiers are discussed and compared with those for forward-wave amplifiers. Gain, bandwidth, and noise-figure characteristics of experimental S-band tubes are presented. Very low noise figures have been achieved for tuning ranges up to half an octave with minimum programming of the gun potentials. A noise figure of 3.7 db at the center of the tuning range has been attained and was reproducible after several hundred hours of operation. This node figure is well below the usual theoretical minimum and is made possible by the unique geometry of the annular cathode and gun. The results to date indicate that the backward-wave type of amplifier is feasible for receiver applications and may satisfy the increasingly apparent need for rapidly tunable selective preamplification."
"Summary form only given. The time response of collector junction temperature of a power transistor to a square-wave power pulse is comprised of the response of the elements of the transistor with respect to the mounting base, and the response of the mounting base and case with respect to the heat dissipating facility. The former is much faster and is, therefore, more important in considering the collector junction temperature rise under short, high power pulse conditions. The collector junction temperature response of a power transistor differs considerably from the response of a typical grown junction transistor because of the dissimilarity of geometry of the elements. The thermal response of a typical grown junction transistor was analyzed by Mortenson. Both types have a p-n-p or n-p-n sandwich structure, but in a power transistor the collector is mounted in intimate, contact with a large copper base, providing a good thermal path, while the emitter contributes thermal inertia but no conductive path. In a grown junction transistor the bar is suspended at both ends, which can be assumed to be at constant temperature during short power pulses."
"Summary form only given. The analogy between a traveling-wave tube and a cascade of stages of amplification suggests the possibility of extending certain low-frequency techniques to the microwave region. Two resulting devices, a microwave logarithmic amplifier and a microwave limiter of large dynamic range, are described. Both these devices operate on an rf to video basis although, in principle, the method can be applied to rf to IF or straight rf operation. A microwave analog of a conventional successive detection logarithmic amplifier has been constructed by placing several helical output couplers along the active length of an S-band traveling-wave tube. With a signal applied to the input coupler, the output of each coupler was detected and applied to a video adding circuit. For a particular choice of the adding ratios, the total video output power was a linear function of the logarithm of the input rf power to within 0.4 db over a 55-db range of input level. The input saturation power of the tube was increased more than 40 db in this manner; the small signal gain was 27 db."
"Summary form only given. For a given power output and voltage range, the minimum length of a backward-wave oscillator can be calculated from published data from any normal range of circuit loss and space charge regimes. As this circuit increases in length the rf oscillations become more insensitive to variations of beam current, but soon a point is reached where a new line appears in the spectrum at a slightly lower frequency. This new frequency corresponds to a second solution of the boundary value equation; and because the system is already in a state of oscillation, nonlinear mixing very rapidly fills the spectrum on either side of the main oscillation as the circuit length or the current is increased beyond that point. Thus, the optimum length of the circuit is a matter of compromise unless the starting current of the spurious mode can be appreciably increased or, as is indicated in this paper, can, in fact, be made infinite."
"Summary form only given. Production prototype silicon transistors have been made using large area diffused base structure. Simultaneous diffusion of gallium and phosphorus is used to form the diffused base structures. The geometry and doping level of the structure can be controlled by varying the impurity source composition and temperature, The phosphorus surface concentration is a much less rapidly varying function of source temperature than is the gallium surface concentration and is determined primarily by the source composition. Two line base contacts and one line emitter contact are attached to the wafer in a one-shot process in which all contacts are made simultaneously. The structure is then encapsulated in a hermetically sealed package. The electrical characteristics of a group of units are given. The transistors are capable of dissipating 85 watts at a 25°C mounting base temperature and have been used, as is described, in circuits to deliver 25 watts in Class A and 80 watts in Class B push-pull operation."
"Summary form only given. It is known that bombardment of silicon with highly energetic radiation deteriorates the lifetime of minority carriers. In some semiconductor devices, e.g., the p-n-p-n transistors, a particular value of the lifetime at a prescribed current density may be required in order to obtain a suitable device characteristic. It is shown that electron bombardment of silicon p-n-p-n transistors is a process which is capable of controlling the turn-on current of the device satisfactorily over wide ranges provided the starting lifetime of the material is high enough. Bombardment with electrons from a Van de Graaff accelerator and with β rays of Sr∞has been performed. The increase of the turn-on current with bombardment is almost linear over about two orders of magnitude. The rate of increase varies almost linearly with the prebombardment turn-on current. These results are in agreement with the Shockley-Read recombination theory."
"Summary form only given. The slow response time often observed in devices utilizing photoconductivity may be caused by the slow rise and decay of conductivity in the photoconductor, or by the RC time constant of the photoconductor in its associated circuit. In imaging devices, such as television camera tubes and light amplifiers, the lag is manifested by smearing of the image for moving scenes. This paper describes a method for reducing the effective response time of the device regardless of the source of lag. By taking the difference of the signals from two photoconductive elements having unlike transient responses, a resultant signal can be obtained having a faster response than either element alone. Measurements have been taken on pairs of vidicons set up to view the same scene simultaneously. The lag-corrected video signal formed by the external combination of the two outputs showed improved speed of response with a moderate loss in signal. Similar results have been obtained with pairs of photoconductive cells. The method can also be applied to light amplifiers and to experimental camera tubes designed to yield a lag-corrected signal directly."
"Summary form only given. An n-p-n alloyed germanium core driver transistor has been designed and developed which has been typical turn-on, turn-off, and storage times of 0.2-0.4 µsec at an output current of 0.5 a, and dissipates 3 watts with the heat sink kept at room temperature. Conflicting electrical and thermal requirements were simultaneously achieved by soldering the germanium wafer on a thick copper tab which was in turn mounted on the metal base. Switching times were improved by reducing the volume available for minority carrier storage. Current gain, which for most units is over 100 at 0.5 a, was increased by optimizing the transistor geometry. The design considerations and transistor performance as well as data of 100°C storage life test are presented."
"Summary form only given. This paper describes some developmental four-layer silicon diodes which have switching voltages of 20-70 volts and holding currents of less than 1 ma to 100 ma. The speed of these devices is in the microsecond range. Temperature variation of these parameters is discussed. Some problems of design and fabrication techniques which control the electrical characteristics of these devices are presented."
"Summary form only given. A new approach to the fabrication of semiconductor devices has been investigated. This approach allows the processing of large semiconductor wafers to a point where they can be diced into numerous and identical devices. Lapping, instead of etching, is employed for all shaping of the units and the high degree of precision built into the lapping apparatus is passed on to all of the devices prepared. The approach is applicable to the fabrication of a great variety of semiconductor devices. Unipolar photounipolar as well as bipolar transistors and negative resistance devices have been fabricated. These devices exhibit superior electrical characteristics. Silicon power transistors have current transfer ratios in the 20-40 range and power gains from 30-40 db. Silicon unipolar transistors have transconductances in the neighborhood of 500 µmhos and input resistances of about 100 megohms, Silicon photounipolar transistors show a dc photo response of 2-20 amperes per lumen."
"Summary form only given. Severe physical requirements are imposed on the photoconductive layer used in the conventional vidicon camera tube target. In particular, its resistivity must be of the order of 1012ohm-cm for frame storage operation and its thickness must be sufficient to prevent capacitive lag. New vidicon targets of a complex structure permit a relaxation of these requirements on the photoconductor. Two types of targets are discussed. 1) An experimental \"lateral-flow\" structure in which the photocurrent flows parallel to the target plane instead of transversely as in the standard vidicon. 2) An experimental \"bridge-type\" structure in which each picture element provides an internal closed circuit so that the charge pattern is established independently of the scanning beam."
"Summary form only given. Silicon p-n-p and n-p-n transistors for medium power audio use have been fabricated using diffusion of p or n-type doping elements into n or p-type silicon wafers to form emitter and collector regions. The wafers are prepared by etching flat circular depressions in silicon dice using a specially developed etchant. Diffused material surrounding the depressions is later removed to delineate the emitter. Dice must be proceased to recover minority carrier lifetime. A ring base contact and circular dot emitter and collector contacts are made to the wafer in a one-shot operation. The design permits simple self-jigging for mounting of the unit on the package. Collector to package mount gives efficient removal of heat."
"Summary form only given. The Persistron is a device in which the processes of electroluminescence and photoconductivity are utilized in a single panel capable of producing a steady or \"persistent\" display with pulsed signal input. The panel is normally triggered by light. It does not operate in the storage mode, but has luminance and persistence characteristics improved over those of the normal exponential decay phosphors."
"Summary form only given. Applications for storage tubes have increased in recent years with the development of the 5-inch direct-view storage tube. This paper discusses the development of a 21-inch storage tube. The tube utilizes a metal envelope with curved faceplate and a usable viewing diameter of about 18 inches. Externally, the tube is similar to an ordinary television picture tube. Internally, a high-velocity electron gun, a low-velocity flood gun, and storage target permit writing and storing information to be viewed after the original signals are gone. The storage target assembly is curved to match the faceplate curvature, thus avoiding a separate viewing screen inside the tube. Photoetched Cu-Ni meshes are used in the storage assembly. The mechanical and electrical problems encountered in the development are discussed and performance figures are given."
"Summary form only given. Storage light intensifier panels having an image resolution of 1275 elements per square inch were constructed. In these panels the bistable storage principle is applied to solid-state light amplifiers. Image elements are optically and electrically separated from neighboring elements. In the first two designs described the layer containing the photoconductor power is divided into cells while the electroluminescent layer is continuous. In one structure the photoconductor is put into holes in a transparent insulator. The holes are separated optically by an opaque mesh. The structures are made of Corning's Fotoform glass which can be darkened or made etchable by photographic means. In another structure the photoconductor is in the form of a thick mesh surrounding transparent insulating pillars. A conducting mesh at the bases of the pillars is one electrode of the structure. Transparent conductor tops on the pedestals make contact to the electroluminescent layer."
"Summary form only given. A brief description of a new hysteresis effect in cadmium selenide photoconductive powder will be given. Photocurrent plotted as a function of voltage has the form of a hysteresis loop, with triggering from low to high currents occurring at a voltage depending on the incident light level. At a suitably chosen voltage, triggering from low to high currents occurs with light pulse excitation. Return to the condition of low current flow is brought about by brief interruption of the supply voltage. Since the triggering is present with ac or dc operation, it is possible to use the effect in a series circuit of photoconductor and ac operated electroluminescent panel. If this is done on an area basis with due attention paid to the impedance match of the photoconductor and electroluminescent layer, it is possible to make an image storage device having no optical feedback. The construction and operation of such a device is described, and a photograph of a stored image on a 3-inch panel is shown."
"Summary form only given. Multicolor storage tubes for applications involving low frame rates have been built by modification of direct-viewing storage tubes. A perforated shadow-mask is placed between the three writing guns and the storage surface. This mask allows electrons from each writing gun to strike discrete storage areas, each containing a single aperture in register with a color dot on the view plate. In this way it is possible to write and store electrical signals independently in adjacent color areas. The design and operation of the tube are discussed in detail. Several sources of color impurity are described, together with the steps taken to minimize their effects."
"Summary form only given. A series of traveling-wave amplifier tubes which employ lightweight permanent-magnet periodic focusing are described. These tubes have a combined frequency coverage from 1.0 to 11.0 kmc. The tubes employ parallel flow focusing of the electron beam and thereby avoid the complications of convergent flow magnetically-shielded electron gun construction. This type of focusing has the further advantage of using the same tubes as those where focusing is accomplished by solenoidal magnetic field. Control of the electron beam in the gun and the entrance conditions of the beam into the periodic helix field is accomplished by shaping of a magnetic field over the gun region."
"Summary form only given. Small diameter metal envelope traveling-wave tubes for use in 1-kw amplifier chains have been developed for operation in the shf band. Tbe tubes utilize a mechanical structure that incorporates the rf helix connectors in the metal envelope. The metal envelope is reduced in size comparable to glass envelope tubes. The detailed mechanical structure and the assembly techniques for small production quantities is described. Data on the influence of the integral rf connectors, the loss pattern, and the helix support rods on broad-band performance will be shown. A comparison of the performance with tubes of more conventional construction is made showing the resultant savings in tube and solenoid size, weight, and power."
"Summary form only given. A traveling-wave tube which can meet rigid specifications with regard to performance and durability at high ambient temperatures has been developed. Designed for L band, this tube (the STL-70) is of all metal and ceramic construction with an extremely rigid gun structure capable of being processed at temperatures exceeding 600°C. This tube has a novel input and output match which gives insurance against helix to ground shorts and maintains a vswr of better than 2 to 1 over this band. The small signal gain is approximately 60 db with saturation power exceeding 1 watt. A gridded electron gun with a very high µ is capable of cutting the beam off at a negative bias of 2 or 3 volts. Focused in an aluminum foil magnet this entire package, tube and magnet, weighs approximately 10 pounds. The tube diameter is small enough to accommodate periodic permanent magnetic focusing if desired."
"Summary form only given. The problem of increasing the power level of a tw amplifier can be partially solved by using slow-wave circuits in parallel. It has been found that up to four helix circuits can be paralleled without adversely affecting the phase velocity characteristics, and that some increase in effective impedance may be realized. Paralleling is accomplished in a way which eliminates most of the unwanted propagation modes usually associated with coupled systems. 100-watt cw amplifiers for S and X band are described. These tubes use 4 helix slow-wave circuits, and are of metal ceramic construction. A 4-beam gun is used to provide a beam in each helix. In constructing the multiple-helix circuits, all helices are brazed together and are brazed in turn to sapphire rods to provide good cooling. Some loss in impedance is experienced due to dielectric loading. These tubes have saturation gains of the order of 20 per cent. The operating voltage is less than 3 kv, resulting in a relatively short tube. The X-band tube is short enough to permit permanent magnet focusing."
"Summary form only given. Heretofore traveling-wave tubes have been designed using Pierce's small signal theory, and the design then modified according to previously obtained experimental results in order to achieve high saturation output and a reasonable efficiency. A procedure has been developed that makes use of the large-signal calculations on traveling-wave amplifiers to design tubes to operate at high saturution efficiency. The design procedure is particularly useful in the design of tubes for high power output and may be applied to the design of either cw or pulsed tubes. A procedure has been developed which enables the design of a traveling-wave tube to be completed with the use of a minimum number of curves and requires a minimum of calculation on the part of the designer. The design curves for helix-type tubes were calculated using the sheath helix impedance modified by the appropriate impedance reduction factors."
"Summary form only given. A traveling-wave amplifier using a cross wound helix or the approximate equivalent, the ring bar circuit, when designed near the maximum limits of power and gain is susceptible to oscillations in a mode known as the \"ring mode.\" The cutoff region of this mode has a range of phase velocity that generally encompasses that of the fundamental helix mode used for amplification. If other factors such as impedance and gain are sufficiently competitive with the fundamental mode, strong oscillations can ensue preventing the tube from functioning as a useful amplifier. Such oscillations have, in fact, been observed on a tube udng a ring bar circuit and at a frequency in the region of ka = 1. The approach used toward eliminating these oscillations was a hot and cold test study to identify the nature of the oscillation, consideration, and trial of methods intended to shift the frequency or phase velocity of this mode beyond the range of usual fundamental mode operation, decoupling of the beam, and use of preferential methods of attenuation. The suppression of \"ring mode\" oscillation was achieved without excessive deterioration of those characteristics desired in a high powered traveling-wave amplifier through the combined use of several of the above approaches to the problem. Although a description of the \"ring mode\" has appeared in the literature, oscillation in this mode and its elimination are believed to be novel and of fundamental importance."
"Summary form only given. The pulse power required by radar systems often imposes a severe load on the pulsing modulator. When traveling-wave or klystron power-output stages are used, the beam is generally pulsed by driving the accelerating electrode to cathode potential. In the past, drive potential and peak energy transfer have been reduced by the use of nonintercepting pulsing electrodes. These methods, however, are usually restricted to low-mu operation, which is inadequate in many applications. This paper describes the modifications necessary in the Pierce-type, convergent-flow electron gun for high-µ pulse beam control. Methods are suggested for the determination of grid-cathode spacing, current transmission, and other grid parameters. Design considerations are based on the space-charge-limited spherical diode. Normalized charts are presented as an aid to design use."
"Summary form only given. The techniques involved in high-speed drift transistors have been extended to provide p-n-p and n-p-n transistors for high-speed, high-current applications. Although the specific design objective was a device useful in core-driving applications, the resulting device will be useful in many high-current, high-voltage applications. The basic structure consists of an alloy emitter, graded base and graded collector. The specific core-driving application considered required the transistor to switch currents in the range of one-half ampere with transition times of less than 50 µsec. The collector voltage and repetition rates are such that the device must be capable of dissipating several watts."
"Summary form only given. In conventional electron tubes, the grid and anode electrode surfaces become coated with materials evaporated from the cathode, so that they do not exhibit the characteristics of clean metal. It has been found that clean electrodes can be obtained in electron tubes by using active metal surfaces and high degassing and exhaust temperatures and that they can be maintained for long periods of time by using with them only oxide coated cathodes having a passive base metal. Tubes having clean electrodes exhibit low levels of grid and anode emission. A diode having a clean anode surface can be made to operate reliably in the emission limited region. A triode having a clean grid surface can be made to have a built-in grid bias of two volts or more. Tubes with clean electrodes have provided stable and reliable performance for long periods of time."
"Summary form only given. Grown-diffused silicon tetrode transistors are being produced which have power gains of 18-20 db at 70 mc and alpha cutoff frequencies up to 400 mc. A general description of the transistor construction is given accentuating those features which contribute to the high-frequency performance such as narrow diffused base, low collector saturation resistance, and low base resistance and collector capacity. The device specifications are presented and curves are shown depicting the distribution of parameters for pilot production transistors. Data are presented showing the variation of parameters and power gain with junction temperature for typical units."
"Summary form only given. The diffused-meltback process for making transistor structures involves growing a crystal containing a donor and an acceptor impurity, cutting the crystal into pellets, melting and refreezing part of a pellet, and then diffusing. The meltback process produces through segregation a spatial discontinuity in concentrations of both impurities, with the same impurity predominating throughout the entire pellet. The diffusion process then results in the appearance of a (base) region of opposite conductivity type very close to the meltback interface. If a single donor and acceptor are used, independent control of excess impurity concentrations in emitter, base, and collector regions is not normally practicable. However, if three impurities are used (i.e., two acceptors and one donor for a germanium p-n-p transistor), they may be so chosen that a different one is predominant in each region. Some limitations on the impurity concentrations that may be obtained are inherent in the crystal growing and segregation processes, but these are not important in the fabrication of a high-frequency signal transistor."
"Summary form only given. This paper describes the fabrication of a germanium diffused base transistor using photolithographic techniques to control device geometry and lead attachment. Methods are presented for masking during evaporation, plating, and etching. In addition, the technique has been extended to allow the evaporation of leads, with the transistor becoming an integral part of a printed circuit."
"Summary form only given. High-speed p-n-p drift transistors designed for switching applications have been made by the formation of the base region by diffusion from the alloy emitter. Transistors made in this manner are characterized by high speed, close control of frequency response, and high current amplification. Typical characteristics are: 1) frequency cutoffs--200 mc; 2) collector-to-base current amplification factor--300; 3) reverse collector breakdown--50 volts; and 4) reverse emitter breakdown--5 volts."
"Summary form only given. A graded base vhf transistor has now been developed specifically for computer applications and will shortly be placed in production. This transistor typically has a use time of nine light feet, a storage time of five light feet, and a fall time less than six light feet at a circuit gain of 10. At these speeds the unit is readily driven into saturation with saturation voltages the order of a tenth of a volt. This performance is necessarily obtained only in a structure wherein be customary intrinsic region has been eliminated. Several processing refinements required to bring about this geometry at high yield have been achieved and will be described together with a discussion of control of the important switching parameters."
"Summary form only given. At the 1956 PGED meeting, D. E. Koontz and D. O. Feder discussed several methods for removing organic contaminants from electronic devices. This paper describes a simple chemical process which greatly reduces the effort required to produce components which are free of hydrophobic organic contaminants. The simplified method requires treatment of the component in an aqueous mixture of formic acid and hydrogen peroxide followed by a thorough rinsing with ultra pure water. In addition to removing organic contaminants, the bath is useful for etching certain metals. Metals such as copper, nickel, iron, and Kovar can be etched to varying degrees. Certain other metals such as titanium, tantalum, and zirconium are not etched."
"Summary form only given. Recent advances in cleaning techniques for electron device components, coupled with simple techniques for the detection of monolayer amounts of contaminants, have enabled routine achievement of radically improved standards of cleanliness for electron device parts and assemblies. A major practical limitation has been the inability to store clean parts for extended periods without significant degradation of this high order of cleanliness. This paper describes the development of simple storage techniques capable of keeping parts free of detectable contaminants for periods up to several months. Some of the important factors in design of suitable storage containers, their cleanliness requirements, and suitable storage atmospheres are considered."
"Summary form only given. This probe, which is the most succesful of several types tried, uses a temperature-modulated tungsten emitter within the 0.050-inch diameter cylindrical probe sheath. The sensing area is a small hole near the tip of the sheath. Since this probe provides the electrons necessary for its operation, it is unaffected by other electrons--either primary or secondary. Likewise it can be used in an evacuated region with other electrons absent."
"Summary form only given. At last year's meeting, the vacuum sealing of titanium metal to forsterite ceramic by reactive alloys was described by J. E. Beggs. These techniques have been extended to the construction of high performance gas discharge tubes in a very simple and inexpensive manner. Tube assemblies of forsterite ceramic and titanium are outgassed and then sealed together in an atmosphere of the noble gas with which they are filled. The gettering action of the hot titanium results in a very pure gas filling. Examples of gas tubes constructed by this new process include voltage regulators, voltage reference tubes, and thyratrons."
"Summary form only given. For the last three years, a group of cathode researchers from several companies and organizations have worked together in evolving a diode structure which could be used to collect data on effects of single variables on life and emission of oxide cathodes. The structure has planar geometry, the cathode being that used by the majority of the cathode-ray industry. Several structures were tried and the data on them are presented."
"Summary form only given. This paper describes how the optical analogy between the electron system in color picture tubes and the \"lighthouse\" exposure technique used in the manufacture of color screens was used to achieve more efficient utilization of tolerances. The \"lighthouse\" correction lens has been redesigned and tube geometry has been modified to correct the placement of the electron spot with respect to the phosphor dots. These changes permit an increase in tube light output without sacrifice of manufacturing tolerances. A detailed description of the \"lighthouse\" revisions and the changes in screen geometry is given."
"Contains various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings of the 1957 IRE National Convention."
"Contains various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings of the 1958 IRE National Convention."
"Contains various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Advertisement: IEEE."
"Bibliographical notes on the authors who contributed to this issue."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Biographies of Allen H. Meitzler, George E. Henry, Lawrence Rosenberg, and Arthur Rothbart."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Vehicular electrical systems have the inherent capability of generating broad-band type impulsive interference, which, if effective control measures are not taken, will seriously degrade the performance of mobile communications receivers installed in the vehicle or installed in nearby vehicles. Thus we have two distinct problems: one, the interference to the communications receiver by the vehicular carrier; two, interference to the communications receiver from the electrical systems of nearby vehicles. The term broad-band interference describes the spectrum character of this interference which manifests its presence over a broad spectrum of frequencies extending from the very low radio frequencies to at least 1,000 mc. Figure 1 illustrates some of the properties of broad-band impulsive type interference. It will be noted that the idealized case of a pulse of infinite height and infinitesimal duration will result in a uniform spectrum from dc to infinity. More realizable pulses of rectangular and triangular shape respectively would have a spectrum such as shown in the lower portion of Figure 1. It will be noted that the spectrum amplitude, in the flat portion of the spectrum is substantially a function of only the volt-time area of the pulse, whereas at the higher frequencies the spectrum amplitude is a function of both the volt-time area and the pulse shape."
"As this paper was presented as part of a panel discussion, it is rather brief. The purpose, however, is to illustrate the manner in which impulsive type interference such as that generated by automobiles, neon lights, electric motors, etc., in the form of arc discharges, effects double-sideband and single-sideband A.M. receivers. Also, how this interference compares with that in F.M. receivers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"A comprehensive listing of the authors, articles and departments included in 1957. Numbers refer to chronological list. Light-face type indicates papers, bold-face type indicates discussions, and italics refer to books and book reviews."
"The index contains an entry for all items that appeared during the year."
"Numbers refer to chronological list."
"This index covers all nontechnical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Since the inception of mechanical filters several years ago, their many desirable features have resulted in many applications. As filtering requirements have become more stringent, the improved performance of mechanical filters has become more pronounced. Q's in the order of a hundred times better than those of comparable electrical circuits are possible. These high Q's allow the use of lossless filter design for narrow bandwidth flat-top filters with more than one section. The mechanical filter allows compact design which is consistent with the miniaturization of modern equipment. Although numerous mechanical filters structures have been built, three types have found the most application. These are the ladder type with resonant plates interconnected by fine wires, the cylindrical rod structure machined to produce alternate necks and slugs, and a cylindrical arrangement with disk resonators interconnected by coupling wires. The center frequency, bandwidth, and filter skirt selectivity are a function of element sizes, spacing, and number of elements used. Proper selection of resonator size and shape, and proper arrangement of driving and coupling elements will suppress spurious responses, which are a major problem in mechanical filter design. Transducers used with mechanical filters provide for the converting of electrical to mechanical energy or mechanical to electrical energy and impedance matching of the filter. Of the four kinds of transducers that have been employed-electromagnetic, electrostatic, magnetostrictive, and piezoelectric-the magnetostrictive have been the most promising in regard to high frequency of operation, stability, efficiency, and economy."
"A method whereby teletype transmission is accomplished by phase-shift rather than frequency-shift keying a carrier signal is outlined. Reception methods involving coherent or synchronous detectors are presented. Results indicate that the synchronous system offers an ultimate gain of 12.5 db over FSK with 10.5 db advantage realizable in the practical case. The practical synchronous system also shows an advantage of about 2.5 db over the Predicted Wave Radio Teletype System described by Doelz and Heald."
"This paper describes a measuring technique which is the electrical analog of the mechanical vernier scale. A system is presented that will measure the time between two pulses, which jitter relative to each other and occur at some random rate, accurate to 10 μm sec. Pulse circuitry is employed to implement the system."
"A microwave interferometer for the measurement of instantaneous frequency is described. It consists of a transmission line circuit used as a frequency modulation discriminator, and an indicator consisting of a microwave detector, video amplifier, and oscilloscope. The discriminator transforms the frequency variation during rf pulses, or that of continuous waves, to an amplitude variation at the input of the indicator. The characteristics of the discriminator are investigated theoretically and conditions are discussed for adjustment of the discriminator in order to minimize linear and nonlinear distortions. Since amplitude deviations of the input wave will simulate frequency variations, a technique which greatly reduces this effect is presented. Analysis and experiments indicate that this method provides a practical technique for measuring the frequency and its stability during a radar pulse."
"The forward and reverse current of fused junction silicon diodes are compared with the predicted equations arising from a simplified model for surface leakage. It is found that analysis of the forward current in the \"exponential\" region leads to resolution of the contributions of the junction and the leakage path. The activation energies of the parameters describing these two contributions were determined; the former agrees with the value of the band gap. The implications and deficiencies of the model are discussed."
"Experimental data on radar sea clutter are described and discussed with reference to the physical principles involved. It is shown that the scattering elements are illuminated by a combination of direct and indirect fields, the latter being \"reflected\" by surface elements closer to the radar. At small depression angles these interfere destructively, giving rise to the so-called \"critical angle,\" polarization dependence, \"spikiness,\" and steeper frequency dependence. A theory is developed in which the elemental scatterers are taken to be the small patches, or \"facets,\" of the surface. It is found that the facets which back scatter most effectively at small depression angles are those whose dimensions are of the order of the wavelength, and that the frequency dependence of the scattering parameter o° at small depression angles is determined by the size distribution of the facets. If the size and slope distributions of the facets are independent of each other, then, below a high-frequency limit, o° has essentially the same frequency dependence at low angles and high angles. The high-angle variation of o° with angle is determined mainly by the slope distribution of the facets. With the slope distribution determined from optical measurements by Cox and Munk, o° is approximately proportional to wind speed at small depression angles, but inversely proportional to wind speed at vertical incidence. Using measured values of o°, the facet mechanism accounts for scattering by the entire surface of the sea."
"Instrumentation for measuring the cumulative distribution of the amplitudes and spacings of pulses in the instantaneous envelope of the atmospheric noise field strength is described. In general, the vlf atmospheric noise observed at 22 kc in a 1-kc band during the fall of 1955 from 9°N to 71°N latitude was found to have a maximum variation in average power level, including the effects of both time and geographic location, of about 46 db. The dynamic range of the instantaneous noise envelope, measured during a 20- to 30-minute period of time, is defined to be the ratio of the field strength exceeded 0.0001 per cent of the time to that exceeded 90 per cent of such periods of time. This dynamic range in a l-kc band, for the 66 periods measured, varied from 59 to 102 db. The average dynamic range in the Arctic was 68 db and in the tropics 81 db. The noise envelope at the low amplitude levels is found to be Rayleigh distributed, while that at the higher levels approaches a distribution having a much greater change in level for a given change in probability. In general, at higher levels, the spacing between pulses does not appear to be random at temperate and arctic locations, but the noise pulses observed in the tropics appear to be more randomly spaced. When the bandwidth of the receiver is reduced, the dynamic range approaches 21.18 db, the value expected for the Rayleigh distributed envelope resulting from a thermal noise input."
"By utilizing the centrifugal force of an electron, resulting from a magnetic field in the cathode plane as a restoring force, an electrostatically-confined beam flow can be obtained through the strong focusing of a periodic electric field. Because of the extremely steep nature of the potential valley derived from its particular force field, the focusing scheme is far more stable than any previous ones. A uniform magnetic field threading the cathode is employed when a very thin, hollow beam is to be focused. By using a radially varying magnetic field, the focusing scheme can be applied to thick hollow beams, of low as well as of high perveance. Experimental results indicate that the focusing performance obtained is much less critical than that obtained with a periodic magnetic field which has been recently tested extensively."
"A compact and meaningful description of a signal is offered by the flow-graph representation of the signal generator. A large class of important signal generators may be represented by a \"trigger generator\" which delivers a sequence of one or more impulses to various waveform generators. By describing the \"trigger generator\" by a Markoff process, by identifying the transition probability-densities between states of the Markoff process with impulse responses, and by interpreting the final response as an expectation-density (or average over the ensemble of possible signals), it is possible to obtain, by methods which are very similar to those used in computing the transfer function of an ordinary circuit, expressions for the power spectrum and correlation functions of signals produced by such sources. The important relationships between stochastic processes and familiar circuit concepts are first illustrated by calculating the probabilities associated with four different coin-tossing experiments of increasing complexity. As a fifth example, these relations are used to develop the well-known Poisson distribution and to introduce the expectation-density of occurrence of a recurrent event. General formulas for the correlation functions and power spectra of signals produced by Markoffian sources are then obtained for: a random telegraph message; a series of identical pulses having time jitter, both for the free-running and clock-synchronized cases; and, finally, a series of identical pulses of alternating polarity but with random spacing."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists the chairmen of the various Professional groups along with their contact information."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The fundamental physical processes responsible for the observed electrification of ordinary precipitating clouds, as well as thunderstorms, is considered in quantitative terms and new facts are emphasized. Cosmic rays and radioactivity, sometimes supplemented by corona and photoionization, produce ion pairs in the atmosphere. These ions are transferred to cloud droplets or ice crystals by diffusion or by electric fields and thereby establish a droplet charge distribution. This distribution is profoundly influenced by the observed differences between the positive and negative light ion conductivities in the atmosphere. Electrification by induction frequently supplements these processes. Rain formed by the association of these cloud elements may be highly electrified and a mixture of positive and negative drops is usually produced. Experimentally wellestablished processes are considered that can selectively charge such rain or selectively discharge it. It is shown that either process can establish a free space charge distribution that is transferred toward the ground by gravity, and may be large enough to develop electric fields exceeding the dielectric strength of air. Lightning then intervenes. The conditions necessary to establish gross free charge distributions by regeneration are specified and shown to be met under frequently occurring meteorological situations. Many of the observed characteristics of thunderstorms are traceable to the nonuniform semiconducting nature of the lower atmosphere and its nonohmic behavior. The analysis reflects the results of earlier work."
"A grooved photoconductor light-amplifying picture panel is described, whose gain is more than 10 times greater than any previous amplifier and whose threshold for input light is reduced. These improvements have been obtained with a new electrode structure which enables a more efficient type of operation and by the use of a more sensitive photoconductive powder. Measured input-output characteristics are shown comparing the new and earlier types of operation and also indicating the effects of different supply frequencies. The time-integrated energy gain for a one-second excitation is of the order of 100 with input light of the same spectral distribution as the output. The asymptotic energy gain after a longer excitation interval is about 800 with optimum spectral matching of the photoconductor. Although the decay time is of the order of seconds, as with early amplifiers, the shape of the decay curves and the rate of decay are changed by the new method of operation."
"A large-signal theory for the interaction between a slow wave and a beam of electrons traveling in crossed dc electric and magnetic fields is formulated. The adiabatic equations of motion are used, space-charge forces are neglected, but phase focusing by the rf field and loss of the beam at the anode and sole plate are taken into account. The limits of validity of the conventional small-signal theory are obtained, and an analog computer is employed to follow the interaction to power saturation. Results are presented for a forward-wave amplifier, backward-wave amplifier, and backward-wave oscillator. It is shown that for very short lengths the backward-wave amplifier may give superior results to the equivalent forward-wave amplifier but that otherwise greater gain and efficiency can be obtained with a forward-wave amplifier. However, it is shown that there is a mode of operation for a backward-wave tube equivalent to an oscillator started by and then locked to the input signal, a condition unlike anything obtained in the equivalent longitudinal twt. Also, it is shown that in a forward-wave or backward-wave tube, the gain is dependent on the input signal and may increase as the input signal level is increased. However, it is apparent that this type of device has inherently a low gain, especially when designed for high efficiency. Consequently, some suggestions which have been made for improving this deficiency are examined."
"This paper describes a multiport, biconical antenna that can be used as a wide-band direction finder or multiplexer. When the antenna is used for reception, incident plane waves excite in the feeding coaxial line both the TEM mode and the orthogonal TE11 mode whose azimuthal orientation depends on the direction of arrival of the signal. Directional information can be obtained by measuring the sum of these two modes at four fixed detectors arranged at 90-degree intervals around the coaxial lines. Alternatively, the linearly-polarized TE11 mode can be resolved, with appropriate circuitry, into right- and left-hand circularly-polarized TE11 modes. Then directional information can be obtained by measuring the phase difference between either of the circularly-polarized modes and the TEM mode. This latter form of direction finder is well suited to multiplexing applications, because each of its three ports is well isolated from the others. Furthermore, this antenna has the unique property that a signal fed into any one of these three ports will cause the antenna to radiate omnidirectionally in azimuth. A waveguide version of this antenna has been built and tested and found to operate well over the frequency range of 8.2 to 12.4 kmc."
"Radio transmissions in the vhf and uhf frequency region over land areas always contend with the irregularities of the terrain and the presence thereon of dispersed quantities of trees, buildings, and other man-made structures, or wave propagation incumbrances. The determination of path attenuation is not easily satisfied by simple, curved, or plane earth calculations. However, quantitative wave propagation data are available in varying degrees which take into account conditions experienced by fixed-to-fixed and fixed-to-moving transmissions over irregular terrain. This available statistical wave propagation information on terrain effects vs frequency, antenna height, polarization, and distance is analyzed, expressed by empirical formulas, and presented in the form of nomographs and correction curves amenable for use by the systems engineer."
"A new class of high-frequency transistors, the Depletion Layer Transistors (DLT), utilizes maximum attainable carrier velocities in solids by injecting electrons or holes into the high electric fields that prevail in properly designed depletion layers of reverse-biased p-n junctions. The resulting short transit times should insure operation up to microwave frequencies. The design theory is presented for a particular example of a depletion layer transistor, discussing its low- and high-frequency, small-signal behavior, power gain, and stability. Other conceivable structures and modes of operation for DLT's are described and the potential importance of the depletion layer principle for solid-state microwave amplification is emphasized."
"Many of the numerical transform methods, developed for the solution of integrodifferential equations, exhibit difficulties when discontinuities occur at the origin. In this paper a procedure for including initial conditions is derived which effectively takes origin discontinuities into account. Although shown to be applicable to a number of transform methods, the derivation emphasizes application to the z-form integration operators because of their relatively greater accuracy. Numerical examples illustrating the solution of a constant coefficient and a time-varying problem are given. The technique is equally applicable to the solution of nonlinear problems."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The forces acting on engineering education are discussed, and it is shown that all these seem to point to a need for further movement away from technician training, and toward much further study of the fundamental sciences of nature in the education of all engineers for the future years. The place of mathematics in a computer age is also reviewed, and it is mentioned that the importance of the \"physical model\" decreases as the use of mathematics increases. A simplification of the definition of engineering is proposed which places emphasis on the separation of science and art, showing the former to be the duty of a university, the latter of the industrial employer. The basis for an electrical engineering curriculum to treat the subject as a science is outlined and discussed as now being applied at one school."
"Future electric circuits will depend more and more on new solid-state phenomena and on solid devices which perform increasingly complex circuit functions. This paper discusses several specific phenomena of interest to circuit and device engineers, namely, superconductivity, molecular amplification, magnetic effects in semiconductors, and nonlinear capacitance in junctions. The paper concludes with a presentation of the potential advantages of controlled inhomogeneity in all types of solid-state devices. It is indicated that, by departing from uniform, homogeneous materials, it is possible to produce new effects and improved performance. Ultimately, controlled inhomogeneity may lead to solid devices which combine the functions of many conventional components and associated wiring."
"The basic idea in these devices is to achieve a good high-frequency response by using processes which are localized in the high-field region of reverse-biased p-n junctions. Structures have been proposed previously which use one injecting contact in the space-charge region. These devices have disadvantages which may be overcome by going to devices with two contacts in the space-charge region. These latter devices have been successfully built and tested. Electrons are injected into the space-charge region of a reverse-biased junction. The injection current is modulated by another nearby contact. This modulating contact is a small alloyed p-type region which is biased in \"reverse\" and consequently draws negligible current. Its function, in a sense, is analogous to the grid in a vacuum tube. In such a device, the second contact has the additional function of shielding the injecting contact from voltage changes across the main p-n junction. The high degree of shielding already achieved in the first few experimental units reflects itself in the fact that the output impedance is of the order of 30 megohms. The measured input impedance is, at present, also about 30 megohms. The input impedance can probably be made even higher. The first experimental devices show a low-frequency power gain at least as high as that obtained with our present-day transistors. The input and output circuits are coupled only through a low interelectrode capacity."
"The investigation of the switching behavior of metal tape rectangular loop cores in the millimicrosecond region has led to the discovery of a group of phenomena associated with elastic switching. These effects can be explained in terms of the existing theory of magnetic domains and appear to be associated with the elasticity and viscosity of motion of the domain walls involved in the magnetization process. Various digital circuit applications are described. These include a technique of continuously displaying the contents of magnetic shift registers and means of operating random access memories an order of magnitude faster than present current coincidence types without an increase in the amount of equipment required, and without the use of extra windings or of a special core geometry."
"A new form of transistor series regulated power supply is presented which permits unusually good performance characteristics to be realized with simple and economical circuitry. Expressions are given for the open-circuit output voltage and the output resistance in terms of the supply voltages and the circuit parameters. Application of the new circuit to two practical laboratory regulated power supplies is described, the specifications of which are: 0.5 ampere at 18 to 22 volts, and 1 a at 5 to 25 v. The output resistance is of the order of 0.01 ohm for both supplies; for sudden change of load current between minimum and maximum the transient in output voltage is 80 mv or less, and decays in 40 μsec or less. At full load, ripple in the output voltage is less than 5 mv and line voltage variations of ±10 per cent produce output variations of less than 5 mv. Each supply uses only one line transformer."
"A reciprocal ferrite phase shifter for 3-cm wavelength has been developed which makes use of a new design technique for obtaining large phase changes per unit length by electrical means. The device consists essentially of a longitudinal magnetic field applied to a ferrite rod centrally located inside a rectangular waveguide excited in the TE10 mode. With a proper choice of rod diameter and impedance matching elements, phase shifts of greater than 250 ø per inch and variations in transmitted power of less than ±0.2 db have been obtained with external control fields as low as 60 oersteds. Zero-field insertion loss of less than 0.1 db per inch has been measured. These characteristics, along with its geometrical configuration and small size, make this electrically controlled ferrite device useful in the design of rapid-scanning antennas or any similar microwave system requiring phase modulation."
"In the search for a scheme of electron focusing which would permit a beam to weave in and out through an rf structure, it was discovered that a linear array of line charges in free space produces two equipotential surfaces which contain exact electron trajectories. The field about such an array may be nearly duplicated by an array of positive wires sandwiched between two negative plates. It has been found that such a structure will effectively focus a ribbon type electron beam of surprisingly high perveance. A backward-wave oscillator was built which utilized this \"slalom\" type focusing. Although this tube was of the rough, experimental variety, oscillations were obtained throughout the range of 3.3 to 4.3 kmc. A beam tester was constructed which has a beam-focusing structure just ten times the size of that of the oscillator's. Ninety-seven per cent transmission through 27 wires of a beam of perveance (2×10-6) has been achieved with this tester. Slalom focusing may also find application in the field of switching."
"A focusing scheme employing two counteracting periodic fields without the use of any magnet is shown to be superior to schemes which involve only one periodic focusing field. The potential valley formed by the combination of these two counteracting fields is steeper than all previous focusing systems and thus is capable of maintaining a very stable beam flow. The combined field also gives rise to proper cancellation of the space charge field. This field cancellation not only results in an ideal focusing for high-density beam but also, compensates for the potential depression inside the beam. With a periodic voltage variation of 5 per cent on the beam, it is theoretically possible to focus with an ideal gun, an electron beam of perveance in the order of 10-5 amp/volt3/2. With a nonoptimized gun, a beam of perveance 2×10-6 amp/volt3/2 has been focused to a 97 per cent current transmission. A 10-db rf gain was observed at a frequency of 2950 mc."
"Pre-emphasis and de-emphasis networks are frequently incorporated in the radio equipment of multichannel systems in order to improve the distribution of noise among the channels. The pre-emphasis network has a rising frequency amplitude characteristic and this produces a redistribution of both signal power and nonlinear noise power over the working spectrum. The improvement in signal-to-noise ratio in any channel which the technique of equalization affords is dependent not only on this effect, but also on the contribution of the multiplex equipment to the total channel noise. This is discussed for typical networks having a maximum slope of attenuation of 6 db per octave and the general case when second-order distortion is predominant. Under practical conditions, the maximum possible improvement is almost entirely obtained when the mean power of the multichannel signal is unchanged by the presence of the networks; a convenient way of establishing this condition with sufficient accuracy is to maintain constant signal energy at a base-band frequency which is 55 per cent of the highest used. Practical considerations usually dictate that the networks do not have a maximum insertion loss exceeding 26 db. With this value and with the multiplex contributing 25 per cent of the total channel noise, an improvement of 3.6 db in the signal-to-noise ratio of the top channel can be expected; provided this loss is not exceeded, the relative noise power, in general, will still be greatest in the top channel."
"In order to obtain a high current amplification factor, it is important in transistors that the ratio of the injected minority carrier current over the total emitter current, γ, be close to unity, or that the quantity 1-γ, called the injection deficit, be as small as possible. It is shown that the injection deficit of an emitter can be decreased by several orders of magnitude if the emitter has a higher band gap than the base region. This effect can be utilized either in addition to the commonly used high emitter doping in order to eliminate the alpha falloff with current, or to decrease the high emitter doping in order to obtain a lower emitter capacitance. Decreasing the emitter capacitance in high-frequency transistors may be utilized either to extend their frequency range or to increase their power capabilities by increasing the area."
"The shot noise generated in a transistor may be represented in an equivalent circuit by a current generator ip across the collector junction and an emf es in series with the emitter junction. The characteristics of ip have been established by measurements of output equivalent saturated diode current made with the input open. The noise is independent of frequency up to approximately ƒα√1-α0, whereƒαis the α-cutoff frequency of the transistor. It increases sharply in the neighborhood of ƒα, but then levels off at higher frequencies. The collector saturated current shows full shot effect up to frequencies well beyond the α-cutoff frequency. Information about es and about the correlation between es and Ip has been obtained from measurements of the noise figure. At low frequencies (ƒ<<ƒα), es and Ip are partially correlated for some transistors, while in others there is little or no correlation. Except for very small values of the source resistance, the main contribution to the noise figure comes from ipp rather than from es. The experimental results are interpreted in terms of a recent theory by van der Ziel. Good agreement has been obtained."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"In this paper the concept of the electron as a fundamental particle of modern physics is discussed in relation to Pauli's exclusion principle, wave mechanics, the uncertainty principle, and relativity."
"A new type of cathode-ray tube typically only a few inches thick is described. The beam is injected parallel to one edge of the thin tube and caused to pass through two right-angle deflections: the first sends the beam into the region between the front and back tube surfaces, and the second turns it into the phosphor-coated front surface. A brief analysis of the deflection-focusing action is presented and the sweep-voltage requirements are described. The thin tube can be adapted to multicolor operation or to any other use to which cathode-ray tubes are put; it also has many unique features (in addition to small size), such as the capability of being viewed from both sides of the display screen or being rendered transparent."
"This paper describes a new microwave repeater system using one traveling-wave tube as both amplifier and local oscillator. The new system uses a minimum number of vacuum tubes and requires no afc because of the inherent stability of the local oscillator frequency due to the use of a high-Q cavity resonator in the feedback circuit of the traveling-wave tube. The result is marked simplicity in the over-all circuit composition of the repeater equipment. Output power, frequency stability, crosstalk, and other characteristics of the new system are examined. Over-all characteristics are also illustrated by examples, and application of the new system to the 480 telephone channels is mentioned."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The International Radio Consultative Committee (CCIR) will hold its Ninth Plenary Assembly in the United States beginning April 1, 1959. The Eighth Plenary Assembly was held in Warsaw, Poland, from August 9 through September 13, 1956. It was attended by approximately 400 delegates, representatives, experts, and observers from some forty countries that are members of the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), sixteen recognized private operating agencies, eight international organizations, and seven scientific or industrial organizations. At the Eighth Plenary Assembly all the fourteen Study Groups of the CCIR held meetings in Warsaw, and the Plenary Assembly adopted 83 Recommendations, 58 Reports, and 19 Resolutions which were put forward by the Study Groups. The program of work for the next three years was also established. This program consists of 71 Questions and 57 Study Programs dealing with all aspects of radio communication, including programs of the transmission, propagation, and reception of electromagnetic waves which arise in the operation of all radio services. The Eighth Plenary Assembly at Warsaw accepted unanimously an invitation to hold the Ninth Plenary Assembly of the CCIR in the United States. This article relates to the results of the Warsaw Assembly in terms of the studies to be undertaken in preparation for the Ninth Plenary Assembly."
"This paper describes a form of balun which is useful for matching a balanced circuit to an unbalanced circuit of nearly the same impedance over a wide frequency range. The bandwidth increase is obtained by the use of a quarter-wave transmission line section which is placed inside one of the balanced arms, thereby minimizing the over-all physical length. It is shown that a practical balun of this type, designed to match a 50-ohm unbalanced line to a balanced 70-ohm antenna, has a voltage standing-wave ratio of 1.4 or better over a frequency band of about 2.8 to 1. The wide bandwidth, simplicity, and reasonable physical dimensions make the balun particularly useful in connection with the adjustable-length dipole antennas which are generally used for vhf and uhf fieldstrength measurement."
"In the design of delay lines one can break down the problem into two parts, namely: 1) to provide the required time delay and bandwidth with a least complicated network and 2) to have a good time response. This paper presents such a design technique for precision time domain applications. The network obtained is a tandem connection of a low-pass ladder which provides the shape of time response and an all-pass bridge structure which gives the desired time delay. The approximation to the ideal delay function is based on the potential analog method in both cases. A method of estimating the time domain error from the frequency domain error is used to determine the maximum permissible phase distortion of the all-pass network."
"The JANET system of long-range communication employs VHF radio signals which are forward-scattered by the ionized trails of individual meteors. The propagation characteristics and design considerations of such a system are surveyed in this paper, and preliminary operating experience is summarized."
"Some of the considerations which influence the choice of transmission bandwidth in a JANET system are discussed in this paper. It is shown that the mean rate of transfer of information increases with bandwidth, for bandwidths in the range currently contemplated, in spite of the consequent decrease in the duty cycle. A system designed to maintain a constant snr by varying the bandwidth with received signal power is discussed, and its advantage over a fixed bandwidth system is calculated."
"The relationship between storage capacity and mean rate of transfer of information is derived for a burst communication system of the JANET type. Specific probability distributions are then assumed for the durations of signals and the intervals between signals. An explicit formula for the mean rate as a function of storage capacity is calculated for these probability distributions. The specific distributions chosen are thought to approximate those which will be found in a typical JANET system."
"JANET is a point-to-point communication system based on the forward scattering of radio waves from meteor trails. The properties of the transmission medium are such that special methods are required to take full advantage of them. Factors influencing system design have been discussed elsewhere; it is the purpose of this paper to desdribe a data handling equipment which has been designed for use on a single channel radio teletype link operating on the JANET principle. The equipment is designed for use with double sideband AM radio links having 3-kc bandwidths. Standard 60 wpm teletype machines are used for input and output, and the instantaneous transmission rate is 1300 wpm."
"Intermittent transmission is proposed as a method to combat the effects of signal fading. Message error and average transmission rate are functions of operating bandwidth and threshold signal-to-noise ratio. The method is evaluated for Rayleigh-fading signals, using binary frequency modulation and phase modulation. One variable-bandwidth system is examined. The theoretical advantage (power gain>40 db for a binary error = 10-6) is reduced by practical limitations but should be nearly realized for some systems."
"It has been suggested that the transient vhf signal produced by meteor ionization be used for communication, and several groups have been investigating this possibility. Analysis of the meteor bursts measured on the 49.8-mc transmissions from Cedar Rapids, Iowa, to Sterling, Va., implies that useful intermittent communication can be achieved. Transmission experiments in a 100-kc band have not realized the theoretical capacity of the signal, mostly because of multipath propagation. About half of the meteor bursts observed are unaffected by this distortion, however, so that a useful system of this bandwidth may yet be possible."
"A low-power burst communication system has been designed and tested, utilizing the intermittent propagation path provided by ionized meteor trails. A test circuit has been installed between Bozeman, Mont. (Montana State College), and Palo Alto, Calif. Details of the burst control techniques and storage devices used to handle the intermittent information flow are discussed along with the over-all system design."
"The characteristics of signals reflected from meteor trails have been extensively measured and analyzed to determine their usefulness in communications. The random nature of meteor sizes, radiants, velocities, time of striking the upper atmosphere, showers, etc., make precise determination of the various desirable propagation parameters difficult; however, gross characteristics such as duration, interval between usable signals, antenna direction effects, diurnal rate and duty cycle, and rate of signal decay are presented in a form usable to the design of communications circuits."
"The storage capacity requirement of a burst-type communications system is analyzed. Two main categories of storage devices, which correspond to the magnetic tape and magnetic core type units currently in use on burst circuits, are considered. Storage units used in the present Stanford Research Institute meteor-burst system are analyzed to determine the loss in over-all systems efficiency imposed by limited capacity of these devices. The equations developed provide a convenient method of assessing the storage requirements of any burst system provided certain of its measured parameters are available."
"The discontinuous vhf signal, propagated over ranges up to 2000 km by reflections from meteor ionization trails, makes possible an important new technique for radio communication. With this technique, the required transmitter power and antenna sizes are considerably less than for communication by the continuous vhf scatter signal supported by smaller meteors and other scattering sources in the lower E region. The wavelength dependence of the information capacity of meteor-burst propagation is approximately λ2.7, which may be compared to approximately λ4.7 for the continuous signal. Thus, by adding the complexity in the terminal equipment needed for discontinuous operation, meteor-burst communication can fill an important need at the same wavelengths that are used in ionospheric-scatter communication, and can be used at shorter wavelengths than are feasible with continuous scatter. This extension to shorter wavelengths should make it possible to reduce the interference problem now being encountered in the lower vhf band, and to greatly increase the number of channels available for reliable longrange communication."
"The directivity of radio reflections from meteor trails and the distribution of trail orientations (radiants) control the directional properties of meteor propagation. Because of the geometrical correspondence between radar and oblique path detection of meteors, the directional properties of meteor propagation can be determined from the range and azimuth distributions of the echoes detected by a radar system. The gross features of these directional properties for an east-west path in northern temperate latitudes are such that-for maximum circuit duty cycle (product of number of echoes and their average duration)-the antenna beams at the transmitter and receiver should be pointed north of the great circle bearing during the morning hours and south of this bearing during the evening. The optimum off-path angle may vary from a few degrees to greater than 20°. For a north-south path, the beams should be pointed west of the path at night and east of the path during the day, for maximum duty cycle. These gross features appear to repeat each day. In addition, short-term fluctuations in the radiant distribution have been noted, some of these fluctuations presumably being due to heretofore undetected meteor showers of very short duration. It appears that the information capacity of meteor burst and ionospheric scatter communication systems could be markedly increased by varying the bearings of the antenna beams according to the known diurnal variations in meteor radiants."
"The relative effectiveness of various regions of the atmosphere in furnishing usable meteor trails is examined on the basis of several distributions of meteor radiants. An idealized distribution in which the radiants lie near the ecliptic is analyzed and the results compared with previous calculations for a uniform radiant distribution. Experimental data on a 250-km link between Knoxville, Tenn., and Atlanta, Ga., show evidence of a rather diffuse concentration of radiants near the ecliptic. A method for predicting the contributions of meteor showers to forward-scatter propagation is developed. As an example the August Perseid shower is studied on the Knoxville-Atlanta link. Experimental data show good agreement with the shower analysis."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Some of the long-range implications and advantages of achieving the production of power from controlled fusion reactions between isotopes of hydrogen, helium, and lithium are set forth. The physical conditions which seemingly must be established to accomplish this are presented. These are shown to lead to a situation in which the fusion fuel will exist in the form of a very hot, tenuous, fully ionized gas-i.e., a plasma. It is shown that the required conditions can be maintained only by the use of a force field, for example, a magnetic field, to confine the plasma. A simple example of magnetic confinement-the pinch effect-is described. The electrodynamic properties of a fully ionized gas interacting with a magnetic field are briefly outlined. General scaling laws which would probably apply to any operable controlled fusion reactor are given. Examples are cited of fruitless approaches to the achievement of controlled fusion. Some aspects of the problem of \"plasma diagnostics\" are described to illustrate means for an experimental approach to high temperature plasma physics."
"With the advent of color television the need for extreme linearity of over-all systems has become apparent. The general problem of the measurement and specification of nonlinear characteristics in television is considered. A function, called the gradient gain of a system, is presented. At a point in the picture for which the gradient gain is positive there is an enhancement (expansion) of the tone rendition. Similarly there is a reduction (compression) in tone rendition when the gradient gain is negative. The gradient gain is a function of the characteristics of the camera tube, picture tube, and purely electronic devices. These characteristics have been defined and methods of measurements suggested in a way which follows most simply from the physical and physiological factors involved. The characteristics of electronic amplifiers are defined so that the extension to color television is readily achieved. The terms \"Differential Gain\" and \"Differential Phase,\" which have been adopted by the IRE, are defined so that they are applicable to electronic devices, such as amplifiers, used for either monochrome or color television."
"A transient analysis of coaxial cables is made by considering the skin effect of the center conductor as the distorting element. Generalized curves are presented by which the response of any length of coaxial cable can be predicted if one point on the attenuation vs frequency curve is known. An experimental check on the analysis is made by comparing measurements and prediction of the responses of several different coaxial cables."
"A serrodyne frequency translator will translate, or shift, the frequency of a signal in a nearly ideal manner. Linear sawtooth modulation of a transit-time device, such as a traveling-wave tube or klystron, is employed to effect the translation. The power output at the translated frequency is practically equal to the capability of the same device operating as an ordinary amplifier. Furthermore, very little power is produced in undesired intermodulation frequency components. Frequency translations of a microwave signal ranging from subaudio frequencies to 57 megacycles have been accomplished. The translation loss for a translation of about 30 megacycles was less than 1 decibel; moreover, each undesired frequency component was suppressed at least 20 decibels. The serrodyne method can be used at nonmicrowave frequencies and with larger fractional frequency shifts, provided modulable transit-time devices having certain properties can be devised. An analysis is given of serrodyne performance as limited by a number of important practical factors. A general spectrum analysis is included which is in a convenient form for a variety of problems in combined AM and PPM (or combined AM and PM) when arbitrary modulating waveforms are used."
"A new analysis is given of direct-coupled-resonator filters that results in excellent response at much greater bandwidths than has previously been possible. The method relies on the fact that the coupling elements can be made into perfect impedance inverters, or \"quarter-wave\" transformers, by the addition of negative elements in lumped-constant circuits, or of short negative lengths of line in waveguide and transmission-line circuits. Specific design formulas are given for filters constructed of lumped-constant elements, waveguide, and strip or other TEM transmission line, and for pass band response functions of the maximally flat and Tchebycheff types. The formulas include a simple frequency transformation that corrects for the frequency sensitivity of the coupling reactances, and thereby greatly improves the design accuracy for both lumpedconstant and microwave types when the bandwidth is more than a few per cent. Exact response curves computed from typical filter designs are compared to the prototype-function response curves, and it is shown that the design formulas give good results with bandwidths of at least 20 per cent in guide wavelength in the case of waveguide filters, or 20 per cent in frequency for TEM-mode transmission-line and lumped-constant filters."
"Delay equalization of distributed-parameter delay lines is accomplished by a new method making use of skewed turns in the winding. A simple analysis of the basis for the use of this method of equalization is given, and the performance of experimental variable delay lines is discussed. A brief survey of the artificial-line delay-equalization problem is given with a discussion of some of the alternative methods of solving the problem."
"A new electron beam technique for measuring microwave power flow, either cw or pulse, in waveguides is described. This technique consists of accelerating an electron beam transversely through an evacuated section of waveguide carrying power in the TE10 mode. The transit time of the electrons is adjusted to a value which gives maximum interaction of the field in the guide with the electrons, i.e., electrons gain maximum energy. The energy gained by the electrons is measured by means of a dc stopping potential which can be related to the field. Power is then calculated from the Poynting vector. The instrument takes the form of a sealed-off vacuum tube having a short section of waveguide as part of the tube. The ends of the waveguide may be sealed using known window techniques. The theory for the ideal case is presented and then means of correcting for the various perturbations present in an actual tube are discussed. The theory and the corrections are verified by experiment. The technique appears to have definite value for monitoring or measuring high- and medium-level cw or pulse-power flow. Theoretically the device is self-calibrating and therefore might make a good primary standard. Its suitability as a primary standard is under further investigation."
"Techniques and components for use in systems handling pulses of 10-millimicrosecond width have been investigated. Bandwidth requirements have led to the use of secondary emission pentodes in amplifier service. The limitations of time delay in feedback type circuitry have made necessary the use of special logical reshaping circuits. A test program on commercially available semiconductor diodes resulted in the selection of high-conductance, goldbonded junction diodes for use in switching circuits. Multivibrator circuits have been designed for gating and delay functions. Electromagnetic delay lines of both the coaxial and helical-wound types have been used for delay and for pulse generation. These components have been applied to the design of an arithmetic unit which performs binary addition, multiplication, and dynamic storage at a pulse repetition rate of 50 megacycles per second."
"Measurements of radiation back scattering from the ocean have been made over the frequency range from 10 to 50 kmc by means of several cw, Doppler, microwave systems operating simultaneously. The systems were mounted on the bow of a ship and various antenna depression angles from 0° (horizontal) to 90° were used. Data were obtained for vertical, horizontal, and circular polarization, and for the cross-polarized component of vertically polarized radiation. Horn antennas of 20-db gain were used at all of the operating frequencies and, in addition, higher and lower gain antennas were used at certain selected frequencies. Signals recorded from a variety of sea conditions have been used to calculate the back-scattering cross section per unit area, σ°, and these calculations indicate that σ° is nearly constant with microwave frequency and increases as the antenna depression angle is increased. The Doppler frequency characteristics of the returned signals have also been obtained from these measurements. A comparison is made between the experimental results and the characteristics predicted from simple scattering mechanisms."
"Measurements have demonstrated that, with occasional exceptions, radar return from the ground is largely due to area scatter, even at angles of incidence near the vertical. An expression is derived here for a power superposition integral expressing the mean pulse envelope for the pulse returned from the ground to a radar. This integral is the convolution of the transmitted pulse form in power units with a function which includes effects of antenna pattern, ground properties, and distance. This function is generalized to include the effects of specular reflection and large isolated scatterers, as well as the more prevalent area scatter. While beam-width-limited illumination always results in inverse-square altitude variation for area scatter, it is shown that the variation with altitude for pulse-length-limited illumination varies from inverse-square to inverse-cube, and is a function of altitude as well as of ground properties and antenna pattern. Mean returned pulses are presented for various grounds and antenna orientations."
"It has been found that when a cold cathode gas triode operates in a high impedance grid circuit in the absence of light or any other external radiation, these tubes have a tendency to fire without any triggering signal applied. This unsatisfactory operation is shown to be a function of the rate of rise of voltage and the time delays found in the breakdown of gaseous discharges. It is further shown that operation can be made satisfactory by making the prebreakdown current larger than a certain minimum value."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Advertisement: IEEE."
"It is well-known that some workers in scientific research laboratories are enormously more creative than others. If the number of scientific publications is used as a measure of productivity, it is found that some individuals create new science at a rate at least fifty times greater than others. Thus differences in rates of scientific production are much bigger than differences in the rates of performing simpler acts, such as the rate of running the mile, or the number of words a man can speak per minute. On the basis of statistical studies of rates of publication, it is found that it is more appropriate to consider not simply the rate of publication but its logarithm. The logarithm appears to have a normal distribution over the population of typical research laboratories. The existence of a \"log-normal distribution\" suggests that the logarithm of the rate of production is a manifestation of some fairly fundamental mental attribute. The great variation in rate of production from one individual to another can be explained on the basis of simplified models of the mental processes concerned. The common feature in the models is that a large number of factors are involved so that small changes in each, all in the same direction, may result in a very large change in output. For example, the number of ideas a scientist can bring into awareness at one time may control his ability to make an invention and his rate of invention may increase very rapidly with this number."
"This paper is a general introduction to the field of amplification and generation of microwaves using molecular rather than electronic processes. The basic physical properties of molecular systems as related to amplification are reviewed. The properties of molecular amplifiers, such as gain, bandwidth, saturation power, and noise figure are discussed, and several specific types of amplifiers are described. These include the molecular-beam Maser, the \"hot-grid cell,\" amplifiers excited by rf pulses and by \"adiabatic fast passage,\" and amplifiers based on multilevel molecular internal energy systems, including \"optically pumped\" amplifiers. Molecular amplifiers may add very little noise to the signal to be amplified: noise figures under one db can be obtained. With suitable feedback, such amplifiers become oscillators of extremely high spectral purity. High gains can be achieved using regeneration, but bandwidths are relatively small. These range from the order of tens of kilocycles for amplifiers using a gaseous molecular system, to megacycles, using solids. Molecular amplifiers saturate at low input powers, of the order of microwatts. Variations of the devices discussed may provide a means of generating millimeter and submillimeter waves."
"New devices are considered in which electrons or holes are injected directly into space-charge regions of reversebiased junctions avoiding the diffusion of carriers through field-free regions. The case considered is one in which the junction is biased at a voltage such that the injected carriers are multiplied by the avalanche process. A device of this type shall be called a spacistor. It is shown that negative resistance devices and amplifying devices may be constructed. The difficulty is the accumulation of the generated carriers in front of the emitting contact. Experimentally, it has been found that this accumulation of carriers results in the spontaneous relaxation-type oscillations of a transistor-like structure operated at collector voltages greater than the punch-through voltage. It is suggested that the accumulation effect may be diminished by the use of small emitters and magnetic fields."
"Plates with an array of apertures molded from rectangular loop ferrite can be used for random access memory. With the relatively close center-to-center spacing equal to twice the hole diameter there is negligible interaction between adjacent holes. The nonconductive ferrite plate can be coated with a conductive pattern to form a \"printed\" winding linking all holes in series. The plates can be stacked and the whole stack threaded with word address selecting wires. The printed windings serve for reading and writing the digits of the word. An experimental prototype plate was developed. It has 256 holes of 0.025 inch in a square 0.830×0.830 inch. A current of 330 ma reverses the magnetization around a hole in 1.5 μsec and produces 30 mv. The hysteresis loop has good rectangularity and the properties of the holes are uniform within ± 5 per cent. The memory plates can be driven by a switch, itself made of plates. Several novel switching principles are proposed: switching over all holes of a switch-row but the selected one, using memory plates in pairs, and operating by a flux-limited fashion. This results in read-out signals free of disturbs, fast access, and large operating tolerances. Conventional current coincident operation is possible also. The making, testing, and assembling of ferrite memory plates with printed windings requires much less time and labor than corresponding techniques with conventional cores. The plates open possibility of random access memories with capacities of millions of bits."
"The transistor is a nonunilateral device which, if appropriately terminated, can become unstable at frequencies where its \"internal feedback\" is sufficiently large. At such frequencies, the maximum power gain is infinite and the transistor may oscillate. This paper discusses the maximum power gain realizable as a function of a required degree of stability. A \"stability factor\" is defined in terms of the transistor parameters and terminations (the admittance matrix is used as an example, but the approach is analogous using other representations). The maximum stable power gain of an isolated amplifier stage and the terminating admittances required for the realization of this maximum power gain are then computed as functions of the stability factor. The computations are extended to include bandwidth requirements and limitations. (It is found that, although bandwidth requirements may impose limitations on the power gain, there is no simple relationship tying together bandwidth and power gain.) The treatment of multistage amplifiers is outlined with the conclusion that the gain realizable in an n-stage amplifier is smaller than n times the gain of a one-stage amplifier having the same stability factor as the stages of the n-stage amplifier. The respective advantages of different representations for different circuit configurations are discussed. In an appendix, the theoretical considerations are applied to tuned transistor amplifiers in common-emitter and common-base configurations. The stability factor is related to the tolerances in transistor parameters and terminating impedances. Examples are given for the maximum realizable stable gain as function of parameter tolerances."
"Commercially available ferrites with low dielectric and magnetic losses at microwave frequencies have brought about the development of ferrod radiator systems for 3-cm wavelength. These ferrites are, in general, characterized by high dielectric constants (approximately 13) and initial permeabilities slightly less than unity. The use of these ferrimagnetic materials as ferrite rod (ferrod) radiators considerably reduces the physical size of microwave antenna systems. The high dielectric constant of the ferrite allows the diameter of the radiating elements of circular cross section to be approximately ¼ inch for 3-cm wavelength use. This makes possible magnetic coupling of the ferrod radiator from resonant cavities or from the narrow side of standard rectangular waveguides to obtain various types of linear arrays. A short feeding section (5/16 inch long) is used to support and lock the position of the ferrod. This device simplifies adjustments and reduces the mechanical tolerances necessary for the ferrod radiators. Microwave ferrites are also characterized by a tensor permeability which changes with applied magnetic field. This phenomenon is used to change the magnetic properties of the ferrod radiator to obtain electrical switching, scanning, lobing, changes in polarization, and amplitude or phase modulation of the radiated energy. Phase shifters, switches, and circulators, which consist of short sections of ferrite-filled cylindrical waveguide, have also been developed for use with the ferrod radiator system."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists the chairmen of the various Professional groups along with their contact information."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Last month at the Annual Banquet the IRE bestowed five important awards bearing the names of outstanding men of their times: Morris N. Liebmann, Browder J. Thompson, Harry Diamond, Vladimir K. Zworykin, and W. R. G. Baker. In paying tribute each year to these awards and to those who receive these high honors, we are apt to lose sight of the five men for whom the awards are named. Accordingly, brief sketches of their careers have been published on the following pages, in the order in which the awards were founded, in the belief that their lives will provide both inspiration and a better appreciation of the awards. These personalized accounts represent considerably more than the usual biographies. They were prepared by persons uniquely qualified by long and close personal association to give us the true character of these men and the significance of their accomplishments. For these labors of love we are deeply indebted to: Emil J. Simon, a Charter Member of the IRE whose personal donation to the IRE made possible the establishment of the Morris N. Liebmann Memorial Prize; Edward L. Bowles, expert consultant to the Secretary of War during World War II, out of whose office Browder J. Thompson was working at the time he was killed while on a special mission; Wilbur S. Hinman, Jr., Technical Director of the Diamond Ordnance Fuze Laboratories, 1956 recipient of the Harry Diamond Memorial Award, and a close associate of Harry Diamond during the latter's 20-year career at the National Bureau of Standards; Irving Wolff, Vice-President, Research, of RCA Laboratories, where he has been a close associate of Vladimir K. Zworykin for a quarter of a century, and Arthur V. Loughren, who as a radio receiver design engineer, and later as Vice-Chairman of the National Television System Committee and Director and Past President of the IRE has enjoyed an intimate professional association with W. R. G. Baker for more than 15 years."
"Although V.K. Zworykin has made many contributions to electronic technology, he is best known for his inventions in electronic television (TV). The extent to which this work has been a part of his life will be made more apparent in the following brief biography."
"Walter Baker was born in Lockport, NY, USA, on November 30, 1892. He attended both grade and high school in Lockport and moved to Schenectady in 1907, where he obtained a job in the local telephone office, receiving and recording trouble reports from customers. As engineer, as industrialist, as wise administrator of and counselor to a professional society, and as leader of men, the donor of the Baker Award represents an example which those considered as potential recipients of the Award in the future may well look up to. The professional contributions of Walter Baker are recounted in detail. "
"This paper deals primarily with the organization and management of large industrial research and development organizations. However, many of the techniques described are equally applicable to smaller organizations. The paper discusses the importance of building a high caliber scientific staff and then providing it with interesting research and development projects in the midst of a pleasant professional environment. An organizational technique emphasizing adequate organization charting is described. The subjects of salaries, bonuses, and special privileges are considered, and special techniques for minimizing problems in these areas are suggested. The paper concludes with a discussion of what it is that an R and D director expects of his managers at various levels, and the attributes a man must possess to advance rapidly into the managerial ranks of a large R and D organization."
"This paper consists of two parts. The first part is tutorial and describes at an elementary level one of the contributions made by Darlington. This is the design theory of electrically symmetrical reactive (lossless) networks with particular attention to filters which exhibit Tchebycheff type performance in the pass and stop bands. The second part of the paper is the presentation, in \"handbook\" style, of step-by-step procedures to be followed in the design of filters of the above type. Emphasis is placed on the use of rapidly converging series in the computations in place of elliptic function tables."
"The effect of illumination of a semiconductor junction is, as is well-known, a photovoltage between the two sides of the junction. In this article it will be shown that a nonuniform illuimination gives a lateral photovoltage parallel to the junction in addition to the (transverse) photovoltage mentioned above. A photocell will be described that uses the lateral effect and can detect the position of a light spot to less than 100 Å. By utilizing an associated lens or aperture, one can measure an angular motion smaller than 0.1 second of arc. The output voltage of the cell is a linear function of the position of the light spot, with zero output for the light spot in the center, reversing in sign when the light spot changes from one side to the other of the center position. The linearity is better than 1.5 per cent over a distance of 0.030 inch. The equivalent noise resistance of the cell is equal to its output resistance, approximately 100 ohms. The sensitivity of the cell is approximately 200 microamperes per lumen and its frequency response is about the same as that of junction transistors. The response curve can be shifted by the application of a voltage between the base contacts. This is an electronic equivalent of a mechanical translation of the cell. It is also possible to do the equivalent of \"chopping\" the light by applying a modulating voltage to the alloyed dot."
"An analysis of the microwave magnetic fields associated with a dominant TEM mode propagating in a coaxial line reveals only a linear sense of microwave H-vector polarization. As a consequence, this transmission line structure does not inherently lend itself for use with ferrites to obtain nonreciprocal propagation characteristics. A means for obtaining microwave H-vector circular polarization in coaxial line is described in this paper. This technique consists of partially filling a coaxial line cross section with a low-loss dielectric. This structure, in conjunction with certain broad-banding techniques, has been utilized in the development of an octave bandwidth coaxial line isolator. A treatment of the parameters, with associated experimental verification, is presented which affects the operation of the isolator. Also included in this paper are the design and experimental characteristics of this isolator. An anticipated mode configuration in the dielectric and ferrite loaded coaxial line is derived on the basis of the experimental results presented in this paper."
"The N-wire rotationally symmetric transmission line surrounding a thin ferrite rod is analyzed here with the aim of determining the feasibility of this low-frequency nonreciprocal device. The structure is assumed to be infinitely long. The transmission line equations are solved in which the effect of mutual inductances and capacitances between wires and the perturbing effect of the ferrite are taken into account An expression for the rotation per unit length of line is obtained as a function of the structure geometry, the magnetic condition of the ferrite, and the operating frequency. The result is valid for thin wires and thin ferrite rods. Two examples are given. The four-wire line (gyrator) is evaluated for a ferrite radius equal to 1/16 the structure radius and the result is a predicted rotation of 0.76°/cm at 1000 mc for a 500 gauss magnetization ferrite. Somewhat larger rotations than this were obtained experimentally by Rowen who worked with larger diameter ferrites where the perturbation theory developed here would not be expected to apply. The eightwire line (circulator) is also evaluated on the basis of the theory and the analysis indicates that rotations of the order of 4°/cm should be obtained at 1000 mc for a 500 gauss ferrite at similar operating conditions."
"Electronically tunable oscillations were obtained at wavelengths between 3 and 1.5 millimeters in a demountable backward-wave oscillator whose circuit structure was a ridged waveguide with transverse slots in the broad wall. The slot arrays were formed by tapes wound on suitably dimensioned, interchangeable frames, each giving a tuning range of about 15 per cent. For electron beam velocities between 650 and 2700 volts and current densities between 3 and 10 amperes per square centimeter, probable power outputs of a few tenths of a milliwatt were obtained. One of the goals of the work was to gain insight into the \"personality\" of traveling-wave tubes at these high frequencies. Among the new concepts to be dealt with are \"beam skin effect\" and the very strong influence of circuit loss on starting current and power output."
"An analysis of the heat flow in transistors is presented which enables one to determine the variation of junction temperature with time for a given transistor excitation. A one-dimensional heat flow model is considered which is repsentative of grown-junction and some alloy transistors. The step and impulse temperature responses are obtained from the solution of the heat equation. A comparison made between the step response so obtained and the often assumed simple exponential response indicates that the assumed response can be low by a factor of two or more. Utilizing the impulse temperature response for the transistor, the junction temperature as a function of time is determined for periodic rectangular pulse excitation. Numerical calculations are made and curves presented for the maximum, average, and minimum junction temperatures in terms of the duty cycle, repetition rate, and fundamental thermal time constant. These curves indicate that the maximum junction temperature can be several times the average value at low duty cycles and low repetition rates. Measurements of junction temperatures are presented which essentially substantiate both the step response and the repetitive pulse response which were theoretically obtained. Finally, using simplified approximate expressions, the procedure for calculating the maximum, average, and minimum junction temperatures for repetitive pulse excitation is described. The use of these predicted junction temperatures with relation to the maximum junction temperature ratings, thermal stability, and electrical parameter changes is also discussed."
"This paper discusses recently developed shutter image converter tubes. Part I is concerned with electrostatically focused tubes while part II considers magnetically focused tubes. Both types employ a mesh spaced close to the cathode which can be used to control the passage of photoelectrons from cathode to phosphor layer (anode). The electron-optical theory is presented for both types of tubes and their static characteristics are discussed."
"It is possible to minimize incidental fm in amplitudemodulated uhf oscillators. The frequency changes at uhf that occur over an amplitude-modulated cycle stem, primarily, from the variation of the transit time and space charge within the oscillator tube. By appropriate selection of parameters of the feedback and cathode lines a compensation is obtained for changes in cathode-to-grid transit time. The exact parameters can be approximately calculated from an analysis of the oscillator circuit. However, a final experimental adjustment is usually necessary. Cathode or grid modulation is better than plate modulation for low incidental fm. The frequency changes caused by variations of grid-to-plate transit time and space charge tend to cancel for cathode of grid modulation; whereas for plate modulation they add. By use of cathode modulation and the previously mentioned compensation, the frequency changes in a 400-mc oscillator were less than 5 kc for a cathode-current variation of 9 to 13 ma."
"The conditions leading to crystal deterioration and burnout in tr tubes, which exhibit apparent satisfactory leakage characteristics, are investigated experimentally. The characteristics of coaxial keep-alive structures are evaluated by monitoring with probes and light intensity measurements the residual electron density in the interaction gap spacing. The prime factor leading to crystal deterioration is random fluctuations in the electron density which are attributed to a wandering of the keep-alive discharge along the cone wall. During the period of fluctuation the spike energy can become excessive. An improved keep-alive design, in which the cone wall is insulated and the cathode is fabricated from stainless steel, eliminates this effect. TR tubes with the improved keep-alive structure have successfully operated in excess of 1000 hours without any apparent crystal deterioration."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The statistical performance of radio communication circuits in the presence of interference is analyzed for the cases where either the desired or undesired signal or both are subject to Rayleigh fading over the propagation path. The significant parameter considered is the ratio of mean signal power to mean interference power needed at the receiver for satisfactory performance. When satisfactory performance is required a high percentage of the time the signal power must be greatly increased over the nonfading case, e.g., 99.9 per cent satisfactory operation requires 30 db more signal power in the presence of signal fading whether or not the interference is fading. The improvement which dual diversity reception offers is discussed for each case. For 99.9 per cent satisfactory operation a practical dual diversity system offers a 14 db improvement over nondiversity for fading signal and fading interference."
"Frequency doubling in ferrites is theoretically predicted from the equation of motion of the component of magnetization that is along the dc magnetic field direction. The low conversion efficiency previously reported by the authors has been significantly improved. Efficiencies as high as -6 db have now been observed as a result of a lengthy study of geometry effects. For an input power of 32-kw peak at 9 kmc, outputs have been measured as high as 8 kw at 18 kmc. The conversion efficiency is found to depend markedly on the geometry of the ferrite."
"Experimental data is presented describing the propagation characteristics of ferrites in the vicinity of zero permeability as seen by a wave which exhibits a positive sense of circular polarization of its microwave H vector. Deailed results derived in the 9000-mc region are given for a ferrite rod axially located in circular waveguide in which the TE11, circularly polarized mode is propagating. A theoretical treatment is also presented which predicts that the behavior of a ferrite rod so located in circular waveguide and biased to the zero permeability region can be made to expel practically all microwave energy from its interior. Experimental results verifying these predictions and an experimental setup used in obtaining a portion of these results are presented in detail. It is shown that similar behavior near zero permeability can be obtained from ferrite rods located in rectangular waveguide. The utilization of ferrites near zero permeability to obtain large nonreciprocal attenuations is discussed for the cases of low, moderate, and high loss ferrites."
"The linearity and highly stable frequency characteristics of modern single-sideband equipment make possible improvements in the frequency spectrum utilization and performance of binary data transmission systems. Problems associated with fully utilizing the binary data transmission potential of an SSB voice channel are discussed. These problems include consideration of frequency and phase stability of the SSB equipment and the propagation media, multipath reception of signals, delay distortion within the voice channel, maximum performance in the presence of noise, and maximum spectrum utilization. Equipment designed to transmit 3000 bits per second over a SSB voice channel is described. Comparative performance data with standard systems are included."
"Based on existing design theories and the known temperature behavior of the semiconductor properties, the temperature variations of transistor characteristics are calculated for four representative types. The results, expressed in terms of four-pole parameters and equivalent circuits, may serve as a guide line in transistor design and temperature compensation of transistor circuits."
"The purpose of this paper is to present universal design curves for three-resonator band-pass filters having minimum insertion loss. This information is obtained by solving Dishal's equations for a band-pass network uniquely for the condition of minimum insertion loss, the network here consisting of three synchronously tuned resonant circuits (coupled to a resistive generator and a resistive load) having the same finite value of unloaded Q. The general solution for the maximally flat response is presented in detail in the second half of this paper. The exact values of the circuit constants for a minimum-insertion-loss response are given both analytically and graphically in terms of the unloaded Q and the fractional bandwidth. Also, the deviation from the exact response shape of a maximally flat filter is discussed for varying values of circuit constants."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists the chairmen of the various Professional groups along with their contact information."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"A name followed by \"and\" is that of the first author of a jointly written paper, while the word \"with\" indicates that the name indexed is that of the second author."
"Numbers refer to chronological list."
"A selection of the journals which are regularly scanned for content of interest to our readers is given here, together with the addresses of publishers or editorial offices and the abbreviations of titles as used in the Abstracts and References. Applications for copies of any journal should be made to the addresses given. The full title of each journal is given first and is followed by the address, the abbreviated title being shown within parentheses. In a few cases the nature of a journal is indicated, where neither the title nor the address shows it clearly."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"In this paper an attempt is made to summarize the current state of knowledge concerning the lower ionosphere. This includes at D and lower E region heights: electron density as functions of height and time, dissipative processes, the possible atmospheric constituents involved and their distributions, physical parameters to be considered, and solar radiations and other factors relevant in the formation of this portion of the ionosphere. Where possible, comparisons between theory and experiment are made."
"A quantitative description of the waves transmitted into and reflected from a sharply-bounded, anisotropic ionosphere with losses is given. Given curves show the effects of the earth's field and losses for a particular model of the nighttime E layer at vlf."
"At distances not exceeding 1500 km, it is convenient to calculate the field strength of a vlf transmitter by geometrical optics. In such computations, it is usual to assume some equivalent height for the (ionospheric) reflecting layer with a reflection coefficient that does not vary with angle of incidence. In the present paper, the ionosphere is taken to be a homogeneous ionized medium with a sharp lower boundary. The reflection coefficient, which is a function of angle of incidence, is utilized to compute the strength of the single and multiple hop sky waves. Combining these with the numerical results of the amplitude and phase of the ground wave, the total field is obtained. The theoretical field-strength-vs-distance curves compare favorably with the experimental data of Heritage for frequencies of 16.6, 18.6, and 19.8 kc over daytime paths in the Pacific Ocean. Finally, diffraction by the earth's bulge of the first hop sky wave is considered. This effect is important at ranges greater than 1200 km or so."
"The space between the earth and the ionosphere is considered as a waveguide with sharply bounded walls. Employing a representation in terms of spherical wave functions of complex order, the field of a vertical dipole source is calculated for very low frequencies. It is shown that the effect of the finite conductivity of the ground is quite important for propagation to great distances. Good agreement is obtained with the experimental results of J. Heritage."
"The theoretical dependence on frequency of the attenuation of the wave guide modes in vlf propagation is discussed in some detail. It is indicated that most of the published experimental data between 1 and 30 kc was compatible with the sharply bounded model of the ionosphere with a reflecting height of about 70 km during the day and 90 km during the night."
"The paper relates to the theory in which the propagation of vlf radio waves is treated by regarding the space between the earth and the ionosphere as a waveguide. Its purpose is to answer some criticisms of earlier papers by Budden. The earth is assumed to be a perfectly conducting plane, and the ionosphere is assumed to be a homogeneous medium with a sharp boundary. In general, there is no unique way of assigning numbers to the waveguide modes. The numbers are usually assigned by continuity with the case where the ionosphere is a perfect conductor, but this method fails for some values of the height and the conductivity. If the product of the height and the conductivity is less than a certain critical value, the attenuation for the zero order mode has a maximum at some frequency, and thereafter decreases as the frequency increases, as was found by Budden. If the critical value is exceeded, the attenuation for the zero order mode increases indefinitely with increasing frequency, as was found by Wait and Liebermann."
"A theory of the generation of low-frequency electromagnetic radiation by cloud-ground lightning strokes is presented. Only the effect of the return stroke is considered. The predicted form of the radiated pulse from the return stroke is a single cycle with a field variation which varies linearly with time. The spectral distribution of the radiated energy is found to be centered at about 11 kc, with a total width at half-maximum of 12 kc. The total energy radiated in one leader and return stroke is estimated at 220,000 joules. Some qualitative considerations on the emission of radiation at extremely low frequencies are given."
"The principal objective of the Radio Noise Section at the National Bureau of Standards is the establishment of a regular service for predicting the levels and characteristics of radio noise. The various steps necessary to establish such a service at NBS are summarized. The characteristics of atmospheric noise vary with location, frequency, and time, and methods of dealing with these variations are discussed. Also discussed are new predictions of world-wide noise levels which have been prepared for the International Radio Consultative Committee (CCIR)."
"Some recent atmospheric noise measurements in the vlf range have been made in Canada by the Defence Research Telecommunications Establishment of the Defence Research Board. The amplitude of the mean logarithmic power (mlp) of atmospheric noise on a frequency of 10 kilocycles has been measured at Ottawa, Ontario (Latitude 45.4° N, Longitude 75.9° W), over a period of one year, beginning in October, 1955. The mlp atmospheric noise amplitude has also been measured in the sub-Arctic regions of Canada at Churchill, Manitoba (Latitude 58.8° N, Longitude 94.2° W), on a frequency of 107 kc for the period December, 1955 to August, 1956. A brief description of the equipment used to obtain these measurements is described. The results of the measurements are presented in the form of a graphical analysis showing the hourly median variations. These measurements are compared with previous measurements made in Canada, and with the estimated values of the National Bureau of Standards, and CCIR predictions of July, 1956."
"The results of some preliminary statistical measurements of the envelope of narrow band atmospheric noise are presented for a range of center frequencies from 1 to 100 kc. The variation of level and dynamic range, as a function of frequency, is examined and compared with results expected on the basis of lightning discharge spectra, thunderstorm distribution, and propagation phenomena."
"Studies of signals from Rugby, England, at 16 kc and 60 kc have given evidence that a single source of standard frequency can be made available at vlf on a world-wide basis. At a distance of 5200 km the Doppler effects in transmission seldom exceed ±3 parts in 109, and a measurement can be made to 1 part in 109 in a few minutes. Accuracies exceeding 1 part in 1010 are consistently obtained by observation over several hours. Data by Allan, Crombie, and Penton, of the New Zealand Dominion Physical Laboratory, indicate that at 16 kc the diurnal Doppler effects at 18,700 km have normal maxima of the order of 1/108, and that a measurement to 3 or 4 parts in 109 can be made in an hour or less. These results are described and some of the effects of solar flares and magnetic disturbances are discussed. In addition, a brief description is given of four mechanisms that have been found useful in comparing the frequency of a local oscillator with that of a vlf standard transmission."
"From recent experimental work at Cambridge, Eng., it is shown that atmospherics originating from different geographical localities are systematically different in character, even when the distances of propagation are the same and there is no reason to anticipate appreciable dissimilarities in the ionospheres along the respective propagation paths. Detailed and precise information is given of how these \"geographical\" effects may be traced by recording and classifying types of waveforms. It is also shown that the effects are apparent for observations of atmospherics at fixed frequencies between 0.65 and 27 kc. No attempt is made to assign a reason for the geographical phenomena, but the most promising approach would seem to be by considering differences in the conductivity of the earth's surface, and in particular, those between land and sea."
"This paper discusses the design of a new type of sound spectrograph, intended for analyzing whistlers. This instrument is of the single-channel scanning type, but its basic action is to scan the frequency-time plane in frequency at a fixed time rather than, as in existing instruments, in time at a fixed frequency. The principle is as follows. First, a very short section of the signal to be analyzed (roughly equal in duration to the reciprocal of the bandwidth of the analyzing filter) is stored in the instrument electronically. The stored signal is then read out repeatedly many times faster than its original speed, and this repeated waveform is analyzed by a variable-tuned filter which sweeps once very rapidly through the expanded frequency band which the signal now occupies. The varying output from the filter, representing the variations of the amplitude of the signal with frequency at one particular time, is recorded as one line of a scan across a continuous strip display. Finally, the stored sample of signal is erased, replaced with the next sample, and the whole process repeated. An audio frequency spectrograph of this type appears to combine speed of operation with fine resolution in frequency, rendering it useful for the rapid analysis of whistlers."
"The achievement of reliability is a goal that must be pursued from the very beginning of the system design project. The first step is to consider each individual component to be used in the system and to critically analyze its capabilities and limitations. The second step in the design project is to determine the applications of these components that tend to take advantage of the best capabilities of these components and avoid their worst limitations. This report lists brief analyses of components and the resulting component applications that have been made by the staff of Lincoln Laboratory over a period of several years. The third and final phase of the design project is the actual electronic circuit design, based on the component analyses and applications notes derived earlier and predicated on the achievement of high reliability. The thorough design method developed by Lincoln Laboratory is described in detail. This method provides reasonable component tolerances and adequate safety margins, and incorporates marginal checking throughout the design process. A detailed"
"An experimental vhf single-sideband equipment used for performance comparison with narrow-band fm equipment is described. Problems associated with transmitter design, transmitter power, speech compression, pilot carrier recovery, sideband detection, agc response time, and ignition noise suppression are discussed. A laboratory comparison and a field comparison of the SSB equipment and the fm equipment indicates that for comparable size equipment utilizing the same final amplifier tube, an equal service range can be obtained."
"Kirchhoff and Maxwell gave us topological inspection rules for evaluating the transmission of a linear reciprocal branch network. With the addition of the unistor, a branch-like element whose current is proportional to one of its two terminal potentials and independent of the other terminal potential, or the gyristor, whose current is proportional to the sum of its two terminal potentials, we can model any linear network, in general nonreciprocal. The point is that the Kirchhoff-Maxwell methods carry over to such networks without change of form, the only modification of the transmission expression being a relatively simple sign rule for gyristor admittances or a relatively simple nullification rule for unistor admittances."
"This paper presents a general theory of junction diode and transistor shot noise in the region of low-level injection currents as dependent on frequency including lf and hf regions. Equations for noise figures in the three basic transistor connections are derived; these equations are believed to be new as well as in agreement with experimental results. Experimental curves at highlevel injection are presented. Coordination with previous theoretical and experimental data is shown to be satisfactory in the lf region. In the hf region, previous theoretical results, after proper adjustment, coincide with the present ones."
"The propagation of perturbations along electron beams of finite diameter is determined by boundary conditions. The solutions of the problem-the phase-eigenvalues or the plasma frequency reduction factor-depend on the way the perturbations of the beam surface are taken into account. A cylindrical uncompensated beam (void of ions) confined by an arbitrary coaxial magnetic field is considered. Two different procedures are compared: one assuming a surface current, the other introducing additional but continuous ac space charges and currents over the beam cross section."
"At very high operating levels the density of carriers injected into the body of a semiconductor junction device is comparable with the carrier density in the emitter regions of the device. The effect of these high densities on the lifetime and mobility of carriers is considered, and new equations are derived relating the carrier densities on either side of a forward biased junction. These equations are applied to derive the forward characteristics of two diode types, and to consider the dependence of emitter efficiency on current density for alloy junction transistors. For a PIN diode, over a considerable current range, the forward current varies approximately as exp (qV/kT), where &#x000BD; &#x022264; &#x003BB; &#x022264;1; &#x003nn; = 1 for very thin diodes, and &#X003BB; = &#X000BD; for thick diodes. For PIR diodes, the forward current varies as exp (qV/2kT). Both types show additional voltage drop at high currents. Transistor emitter efficiency decreases with increasing current, but saturates to a finite value at high currents. These predictions are in accord with experiment and suggest design considerations for optimum performance. A brief discussion is also given of the usefulness of these new results in device applications."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"The Secretary's Report is published so the membership may be informed of the more important factors affecting the operation of Institute. Topics covered include membership issues, publication of the Proceedings, Sections news, Awards, finance matters, death announcements, and reviews of recent meetings"
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Selected samples of both germanium and silicon devices have been exposed to a nuclear radiation environment. This environment consisted of either a fission-produced gamma spectrum or a combined neutron and gamma spectrum as obtained in the graphite region of the Materials Testing Reactor in Scoville, Idaho. Several parameters of the devices were measured before, during, and after irradiation. Noise and photovoltaic voltages were observed during exposure to a gamma flux of 2×106 Roentgens/ hour (R/hr). In some devices, transient changes occurred in those parameters sensitive to surface conditions. After continued exposure of from 5×105 to 5×108 Roentgens or 5×1010 to 5×1013 neutrons per square cm, permanent damage occurred in the device characteristics. No real distinction could be made between silicon or germanium devices so far as noise, photovoltaic, or transient effects are concerned. However, there is a marked difference between silicon and germanium devices with respect to permanent damage. Silicon devices are more susceptible to damage in parameters dependent upon the minority carrier lifetime such as the current gain, the forward resistance of high efficiency diodes, and the valley voltage of unijunction transistors. Germanium devices are also susceptible to the conversion of n material to p type and this results in the reduction of the punch-through voltage of p-n-p germanium transistors. For both silicon and germanium transistors it was found that the thinner base transistors were the more resistant to reduction in current gain."
"A traveling-wave tube designed to operate as a frequency multiplier (twfm) is described, together with experimental results. The tube employs two helices in cascade, the output helix being a dispersive forward-wave helix operating at S band. A wide range of input frequencies can be used, and the dispersive character of the output helix permits the selection of a particular harmonic by voltage tuning of the helix. The experimental tube was designed to operate with an input frequency range of 0.5 to 1.0 kmc and an output range of 2 to 4 kmc, although it was found to have a useful input frequency range from 0.1 to 1.0 kmc. It was found that multiplication ratios up to 10 or 15 are feasible with substantial gain, and with output power corresponding to normal operation of the second helix as an amplifier. Using an input frequency as low as 0.1 kmc, well below the design value, harmonic output in the order of a few milliwatts has been obtained at harmonics as high as the fortieth. For beam powers of 2 to 4 watts and for input frequencies down to 0.25 kmc, the harmonic power varied from 20 to 100 mw, depending upon the output frequency and multiplication ratio. The gross features of the gain characteristics of the twfm using a cascade gain analysis are shown."
"Techniques have been developed to fabricate semiconductor diodes with rectifying junction to ohmic contact distances of the order of microns. The current-voltage relationship of such a diode is a function of the degree of imperfection of the ohmic contact. If it were possible to make ideal ohmic contacts, the diode would exhibit extremely poor rectification. The rectification ratio of germanium diodes for practical ohmic contacts, however, is of the order of 105 to 106. The current-voltage relationship, the small-signal frequency response, and the switching characteristics of the very narrow base diode are analyzed using the appropriate boundary condition at the ohmic contact. The alloy junction current-voltage characteristics follow very closely the (eqV/akT-1) relationship with values of a between 1.02 and the theoretical value 1.00. Because of the narrow base width, the series bulk resistance for typical designs is between 0.3 and 3 ohms. Thus the entire range of forward currents can be obtained at low forward voltages. The diode is a high-frequency device both for small-signal applications and for switching applications, although the ultimate high-frequency capability is reduced because of the imperfection of the ohmic contact. In switching applications, the reverse recovery time may be limited as much by junction capacitance as by hole storage. A method of fabrication is described and small-signal applications at uhf are discussed. A computer diode design that switches at speeds up to 5 mc is described. This diode has the advantageous combination of low forward-voltage drop and high-frequency capability."
"The Smith Chart is not generally used for making impedance calculations when the characteristic impedance of the two terminal-pair network involved is anything but a real number because normalization of some terminating impedances to the complex characteristic impedance may result in a normalized impedance whose real part is negative, and a \"propagation constant\" whose magnitude is greater than one, even though no active elements are involved in the network. This paper shows how impedances may be calculated using the Smith Chart and associated techniques in much the same manner, and almost as conveniently, as for lossless transmission lines, even though the network may be unsymmetrical, and have complex image impedances and propagation constant. The calculations are mathematically rigorous and simple using the Smith Chart only for converting back and forth between the complex numbers Г in polar form and Z in rectangular form where Г and Z are related by the mathematical expression Z- Z+ 1 No physical interpretation of these numbers is made during the computation as no such interpretation is necessary or useful as far as the method is concerned and may even confuse the main issue, that of a simple solution to a heretofore complex problem."
"It is well-known that generator resistance and dcemitter current are two major factors in determining the noise figure of junction transistors. Other important factors are base resistance, low-frequency alpha, and alpha cutoff frequency. A method of calculating the noise figure in terms of these parameters, the frequency variation of the noise figure, and the conditions for minimizing the noise figure are presented. The results provide means for specifying transistor and circuit parameters to meet noise requirements. In the absence of \"excess\" or 1/f noise, the noise figure as a function of frequency for the common base, common collector, and common emitter configurations is constant up to √1-a0 fa. Here a0 is the low-frequency alpha and fa the alpha cutoff frequency. Above this frequency the noise figure increases toward an asymptote of 6 decibels per octave. Calculations show that for minimum noise figure the base resistance and emitter current should be small, a0 should be close to one, fa should be large, and the driving source resistance has an optimum value. This work is based on a simplified version of a transistor noise equivalent circuit developed by van der Ziel."
"In the customary methods of transmitting binary data the receiver, as a result of the decision process made on each transmitted pulse, prints out one of two symbols. Schemes are considered here in which the receiver prints out one of three symbols (single-null zone reception) or one of four symbols (double-null zone reception). These extra symbols permit the receiver to indicate when the a posteriori probabilities of the two transmitted states are nearly equal. Single-null zone reception is shown to be capable, under optimum conditions, of achieving about one-half of the improvement in information rate theoretically attainable by increasing the number of receiver levels without limit. Double-null reception, which splits the null zone and thereby retains polarity information, offers only a slight additional increase in rate. It affords a significant advantage over single-null reception, though, because it is much less sensitive to variations in null level."
"The back scattering from water and several land terrains has been measured at wavelengths of 3.2 cm, 1.25 cm, and 8.6 mm using vertical polarization only. σ°, the average radar cross section of water or land echo per unit area of the surface, has been plotted as a function of the angle of incidence for the three wavelengths. A family of curves at each of the three wavelengths shows the change in σ° with wind velocity for the water surface. σ° is also shown as a function of the angle of incidence for several land terrains. In general, σ° increases with frequency and also with wind velocity in the case of the water surface."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists the chairmen of the various Professional groups along with their contact information."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"In recent years, there has been much research on the applications of ultrasonic techniques to medicine. This paper discusses some of the projects being carried out in the fields of diagnosis, therapy, dentistry, and bacteriology. The diagnostic investigations presented include brain tumor detection, soft tissue visualization, and analysis of cancers for malignancy. The therapy studies include tissue diathermy, brain surgery, and tumor inhibition. Drilling of teeth is the application discussed in dentistry. In all cases, an attempt is made to elucidate the mechanisms pertinent to the applications."
"This paper refers briefly to some of the deleterious effects that often arise when positive ions are trapped in electron beams. Calculations aimed at establishing a useful picture of ion oscillations in gridded drift tubes are presented, and a plausible physical picture of some possible ion motions is obtained. In consequence of these motions, the electric field inside the drift tube undergoes one or more space reversals. When a beam of fast electrons traverses such a region, beam loading may be negative; this is calculated in some detail, both for ions and for a simple LC circuit. Thus a mechanism for energy transfer from the electron beam to the oscillating ions has now been found. The question of whether or not this energy is sufficient to sustain oscillations is examined in a preliminary way. The importance of secondary electrons in some cases is discussed. Comparison between experiment and theory shows that a good qualitative understanding now exists of such observed phenomena as continuous oscillations. The occurrence, however, of fluctuating ion oscillations is not predicted by the present theory."
"Combined gating and memory functions may be performed by the use of multihole ferrite cores called transfluxors. By proper topological design, transfluxors may be made noncritical to control pulse amplitude. In addition, by use of novel compensation and ac driving techniques, the transfluxor may be operated noncritically over an ambient temperature range from -50°C to +200°C. By making full use of multiple path geometries single multihole disks referred to as logicors have been designed to perform such complex logical operations as sequential pulse gating, odd parity checking, binary half adding, selective channeling, etc. One such logicor may replace as many as twelve switching devices in a logical circuit."
"The ferroelectric switching properties of GASH (CN3H6).Al(SO4)2.6H2O were studied under sinewave and pulse conditions. The results indicate that the polarization reversal process is analogous to that found in barium titanate single crystals. The activation fields are of the same order of magnitude in the two ferroelectrics, although the domain mobility of GASH is 30 to 100 less than that of BaTiO3 at room temperature. Neither a threshold field nor a true coercivity was found for GASH and the hysteresis losses in this material are less by a factor of 10 in comparison with barium titanate. The upper frequency limit for observing ferroelectric phenomena appears to be about 25-50 kc in both materials. It is concluded that while GASH has some advantages over BaTiO3 as a possible electronic component in terms of lower hysteresis losses, ease of crystal growth, and lower electromechanical activity, its use at the present stage of development must be limited to low speed (less than 1 kc) switching circuits."
"A convenient design formula has been derived which enables one to estimate readily the minimum amount of magnetic material which will satisfy a given set of field strength requirements on the axis of a tubular permanent magnet. Such a magnet is suitable for focusing the beam of a traveling-wave tube (twt) with coaxial rf fittings if small holes are provided in the side of the magnet to admit the coaxial lines. The calculation is further expedited by the use of design graphs, based upon the formula, from which one can read off directly the required cross section area at the middle of the magnet. From this value one may calculate the average cross section, volume, and weight of magnetic material. A correction factor has been derived which also enables one to apply the results for the simple tubular magnet directly to the case of magnets specially shaped to fit around waveguide. The validity of the formula and of the associated design graphs has been confirmed by tests upon a series of magnets. These magnets covered a considerable range of field requirements and of size, varying in weight from three to twenty pounds."
"A discussion of new types of slow-wave structures, in which the coupling between sections is obtained largely by negative mutual inductance, is given in this paper. Since this type of coupling can be used to give \"fundamental\" amplifier operation with relatively high impedance, the devices are somewhat unusual in the field of high-power traveling-wave tubes. Several structures which make use of this type of coupling are examined in a qualitative manner, and the results of \"cold tests\" on each model are given. In particular, one device, the so-called \"clover-leaf\" structure, is investigated in some detail. Curves of impedance, C, and gain at megawatt power levels are included. Some discussion of the practical problems involved in the design of an amplifier using this circuit is presented to serve as a guide for those interested in the construction of high-power traveling-wave tubes."
"Special emphasis is paid to narrow-band systems with a small number of modes, and to high switching speed. Sufficient stability conditions presented have been derived by use of a first-order Taylor approximation, which substantially reduces algebraic complexity. The system may deviate considerably from quasi-linearity. Graphical interpretation of stability and transients permits application to curve data and is believed to give an easily visualized explanation for experimental observations. Mode switching speeds of 7 mμsec could be achieved with an S-band bistable oscillator."
"A rigorous expression for the frequency derivative of the input reactance or susceptance of an arbitrary antenna is derived by integration of Maxwell's equations. This expression is shown to depend on the polarization properties of the far field of the antenna and on a quantity which may be interpreted as the electromagnetic energy stored in its near field. The theorem gives a precise theoretical foundation to an intuitive analysis, based on network theorems, which has been used with some success to predict the bandwidth properties of antennas."
"This paper describes an elementary and powerful way to calculate the conduction current losses in metallic waveguide walls, that have parallel periodic grooves of semicircular cross section, when the diameter of the circles is small with respect to the wavelength, but long with respect to the skin depth. The helix circular-electric waveguide falls in this class, and its circular-electricwave losses have been estimated. The method consists in guessing judiciously the solution of Maxwell's equations close to the wall. It turns out that with the first two obvious guesses, close approximations to the rigorous solution are obtained for grooves at right angles and parallel to the tangential magnetic field."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Experiments with high-speed boats at Gloucester, Mass, in 1910-12, resulted in sustained governmental interest in radiodynamic torpedoes from 1912 to 1931. This culminated in the successful radio control of the course of a modified standard naval torpedo throughout a 9000 yard run at an operating depth of 12 feet. Many developments by the Hammond Laboratory established basic principles used in modern airborne guided missiles, including the stabilizing, security, bat, proximity, and homing principles. Needs for improved devices and circuitries for control purposes stimulated the early development of principles used in modern communications. The Hammond Laboratory sponsored the first nondetector applications of the filamentary type triode for linear amplification and for transmitter and heterodyne purposes in 1911-12. The intermediate frequency principle for selectivity purposes was developed in 1912, stemming from the heterodyne principle of Fessenden and the two-channel security principle of Tesla. At a conference at Gloucester in October, 1912, disclosure of these developments led immediately to the Alexanderson development of the tuned radio frequency principle and to the accelerated development of the high-vacuum triode by Langmuir and White. The first military application of the intermediate-frequency principle was to the solution of a World War I problem of mitigating the interference of enemy spark type transmitters upon communications from front line infantry. The receiver of the system was structurally of the most general superheterodyne type for continuous-wave reception."
"The term \"platinotron\" is the nomenclature given to a class of tube which, in general, comprises a circular, but nonreentrant, dispersive network matched at both ends over the frequency region of interest, and a reentrant electron beam originating from a continuously or nearly continuously coated cathode coaxial to the network. A dc potential is applied between the cathode and anode and a magnetic field is applied parallel to the axis of the cathode and transverse to the electric field between anode and cathode. In operation, the device works within the pass band of the network and exhibits directional properties, acting as an efficient, broadband, saturated amplifier when the signal is passed through the device in one direction and as a passive network when the signal is passed through in the reverse direction. The platinotron has no region of linear amplification and may self-oscillate if the driving signal is removed. When the platinotron is being driven from an rf source, there is little or no power flow from the platinotron toward the driver. This behavior distinguishes the device from a conventionally locked magnetron oscillator. Desirable characteristics of the platinotron include: efficiencies of 50 to 70 per cent; high peak and average rf power outputs, electronic bandwidths of 10 per cent with nearly constant efficiency over the entire bandwidth, low-phase pushing figure, low operating voltage, nominal gain of 10 db over a ten per cent frequency range, and a simple, compact mechanical structure."
"On the mixing-in-gradient hypothesis of incoherent scattering of radio waves in a dry atmosphere, the intensity of the irregularities in dielectric constant depends on the excess of the temperature gradient above that appropriate to an adiabatic atmosphere. In going from the upper troposphere to the stratosphere, there is a significant increase in this gradient excess and consequently, a significant increase in the intensity of irregularities in dielectric constant. The decrease in intensity with increase of height measured by Crain in the troposphere does not, therefore, indicate reliably the intensity to be expected above the tropopause. Calculations have been made concerning the effect of stratospheric, as distinct from tropospheric, scattering. Stratospheric scattering is expected to predominate over tropospheric scattering at ranges greater than about 600 km. At a range of 1000 km, the calculated transmission-loss due to stratospheric scattering is a few decibels greater than is indicated by observations. The effect of stratospheric scattering at a frequency of 108 mc is such that the minimum signal observed at this frequency over the path from Cedar Rapids, Iowa, to Sterling, Va., could conceivably have been stratospheric in origin, with ionospheric scattering being predominant at certain times, for example, during SID's."
"For certain p-n junctions, it has been observed that the measured current-voltage characteristics deviate from the ideal case of the diffusion model. It is the purpose of this paper to show that the current due to generation and recombination of carriers from generation-recombination centers in the space charge region of a p-n junction accounts for the observed characteristics. This phenomenon dominates in semiconductors with large energy gap, low lifetimes, and low resistivity. This model not only accounts for the nonsaturable reverse current, but also predicts an apparent exp (qV/nkT) dependence of the forward current in a p-n junction. The relative importance of the diffusion current outside the space charge layer and the recombination current inside the space charge layer also explains the increase of the emitter efficiency of silicon transistors with emitter current. A correlation of the theory with experiment indicates that the energy level of the centers is a few kT from the intrinsic Fermi level."
"This paper describes a technique for improving the performance of digital feedback control systems and operational digital simulators by making use of the computer to perform information programming or data processing. The system stability can be improved and the system error can be reduced by digital programng of the input and error signals together with digital correction computations. This technique of digital compensation is illustrated by an example."
"A novel method is presented for producing dead-bea response in a lightly-damped oscillatory feedback system. Complete transient response times of the order of a fraction of the natural oscillatory period can be obtained. Excellent waveshape reproduction is achieved through a linear phase lag with frequency. The method consists of exciting several transient oscillations, at closely spaced times, with magnitudes and phases so adjusted that the resultant sum of the transient oscillation phasors is zero. The steady-state output is the arithmetic sum of the excitation magnitudes. When a step input transient is divided into two spaced excitations, one-half cycle response is obtainable. When the input transient is divided into three excitations, one-fourth period or faster transient times are realizable, depending upon the available dynamic range or signal-to-noise ratio. The principle of design is to adjust a system to the maximum possible resonant frequency, independent of the damping factor, but stable, and then to apply the Posicast control to completely remove the oscillatory component in the output. In an electrical feedback control system, the additional hardware consists of one or two artificial transmission lines."
"This paper describes the principles, methods, circuit applications, and the theoretical basis of the synchronization of LC oscillators by interrupted wave trains. The synchronizing process is shown to depend upon the transient behavior of the phase angle between two vectors which represent, respectively, the instantaneous voltage of the oscillator and the corresponding instantaneous voltage of the injected synchronizing signal. This phasing action is employed in the derivation of formulas by means of which it is possible to define the regions of synchronization due to each of the several significant frequency components of the interrupted wave train. The term interrupted wave train as used herein refers to a cw signal which is interrupted (gated) in a periodic manner. The resultant signal, as herein demonstrated by theoretical and experimental means, can produce a form of synchronization such that the average frequency of the oscillator is identically equal to the fundamental component of the synchronizing signal or to any selected sideband. Phase modulation of determinable magnitude is shown to exist in the synchronized oscillator and analyses are included which permit evaluation of the frequency spectrum of the output. Particular emphasis is given to the band of synchronization due to a cw signal of the same amplitude as the interrupted signal. This band, a measure of frequency, is used as a convenient unit when comparing the synchronizing action of various forms of synchronizing signals."
"The electrical parameters (barrier resistance, barrier capacity, and spreading resistance) of a crystal diode are quantitatively related to its fundamental physical properties and geometrical construction. The effects of these parameters on conversion loss at uhf and microwave frequencies are discussed, with particular reference to diodes made from n-type germanium and p-type silicon. Semiconductor materials may be compared for their mixer sensitivity potentialities, by use of the figure of merit N1/2b/ϵl/2 (N is carrier concentration in cm-3, b is carrier mobility in cm2/volt sec, ϵ is the dielectric constant) which is herein derived. It shows that n-type germanium is a better mixer material than p-type silicon. A method for minimizing the conversion loss of any given semiconductor is developed. Application of the above method produced germanium diodes having conversion losses which attained the theoretical minimum and silicon diodes having losses 0.8 db above the minimum. It is pointed out that the noise temperature of a mixer is dependent on the conversion loss, and that it rapidly becomes less important as conversion loss is decreased. The optimum receiver noise figure is shown to occur quite close to the operating conditions which minimize conversion loss. It is shown also that the temperature dependency of germanium and silicon mixer diodes are nearly the same. The experimental application of the information in this paper resulted in an X-band receiver with an over-all noise figure of 6 db."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists the chairmen of the various Professional groups along with their contact information."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers. The Professional Group on Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics is an organization, within the framework of the IRE, of members with principal professional interest in Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics. All members of the IRE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive all Group publications upon payment of an annual assessment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In this paper, air traffic control is considered quite separately from navigation or general communications. An analysis of the fixed block, the timed block, and the timed intersection systems of air traffic control shows that the fixed block system presents certain advantages. After a discussion of methods of naming and numbering fixes, a scheme is proposed of numbered blocks between fixes, instead, as the control elements. A communication scheme for the signaling link is proposed as a time-shared, ground-controlled system to interrogate all aircraft sequentially for request and release of blocks several times a minute. General broadcasts of airport conditions periodically, followed by specific request when an aircraft is a half-hour from arrival, are proposed as a method of reserving airport landing time. Finally, the simplicity of an interlock system which can automatically reply with clearance to the pilot is proposed with certain remarks on comparative costs."
"This paper outlines the major advantages and limitations of the Air Traffic Control Radar Beacon System under evaluation at the Civil Aeronautics Administration Technical Development Center. It discusses the advantages and disadvantages of compatibility, the system traffic capacity problems, and the need for an operational doctrine to restrict the use of interrogators. System coverage, ground antenna, reply-code garbling, and reflection problems also are discussed. The paper points out specific applications of the beacon system, including its ability to improve the reliability of aircraft position information, to provide identity for specific aircraft targets in a traffic situation, and to furnish the information required for a filtered air traffic control display with a very rapid and flexible cross-reference between aircraft identification, plan position, and altitude."
"In training scheduled air carrier flight crews in the use of airborne storm avoidance radar, a twofold problem is encountered. The utility of the instrument must be sold to the doubting Thomas who has many thousands of hours flying in thunderstorm conditions, and its limitations must be defined for those who see it as a miracle maker. In overcoming these problems, United Air Lines, training program has emphasized basic scope interpretation with special reference to severe storms and their appearance on a planposition indicator (ppi) display. Flight crew reaction to the training and to the radar installations in United's fleet has been favorable and is described."
"High-frequency (2-24 mc) airborne direction-finding antennas are, in general, limited in accuracy, due to the undesired coupling between the antenna and the airframe which is electrically resonant in this frequency range. This paper describes the results of laboratory and flight test studies of antennas designed to eliminate such coupling and to achieve the necessary direction-finding accuracy. The radiation patterns of one particular antenna design-the wing H-Adcock-are discussed. It is concluded that hf airborne direction-finding is not feasible except in very restricted circumstances over narrow portions of the hf band."
"Radio altimeters operating in the microwave region must distinguish between desired signals returned from the ground and undesired signals returned from precipitation. Calculation of the relative ground and precipitation returns for a 0.1 microsecond pulse-duration altimeter requiring 10 to 1 desired-undesired signal ratio indicates a minimum wavelength of about 2 cm may be used for reliable operation in heavy precipitation. Curves have been computed for minimum wavelength at a given altitude for fixed range to rain and for equal rain and ground ranges, for various beam widths. Minimum wavelengths as long as 20 cm are indicated for some conditions. Use of circular polarization may permit altimeter operation at wavelengths less than 2 cm, even with intense precipitation."
"A miniaturized airborne rf power amplifier with continuous coverage of the 4-30-mc frequency range and with 1-kw average power output is described. Complete oil immersion for heat transfer and voltage insulation plus a novel six-phase self-rectifying power amplifier circuit give a high-power density unit capable of operating under extreme environmental conditions. The maximum usable power level is now limited by the aircraft antennas available."
"Radar video information may be processed on a continuous-trace (as opposed to range-gated) basis by using delay elements whose delay times are integral multiples of the repetition period τ. Networks consisting of such lines and of linear amplifiers and adders yield periodic pass bands. Their properties may be analyzed most conveniently by the transformation z = eppt, where p is the complex frequency variable. A systematic synthesis procedure is presented which realizes a prescribed delay-line transfer function as a cascade of elementary building blocks. Flow-graph techniques may be used to obtain different embodiments corresponding to the same transfer function. It is shown that the required number of delay elements is equal to the number of poles of the z-transfer-function which are located away from the origin, or to the number of zeros, whichever is larger."
"Overviews current society and chapter news and events."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers. The Professional Group on Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics is an organization, within the framework of the IRE, of members with principal professional interest in Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics. All members of the IRE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive all Group publications upon payment of an annual assessment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Certain serious problems concerning air safety can be attributed to our poor management of the many ground-to-air intelligence links which terminate in the aircraft. In addition to overburdening the pilot, our present ground-to-air systems do not provide all the functions required for satisfactory aircraft traffic control. This paper describes a possible solution to these problems through a reexamination of our present ground-to-air intelligence-carrying circuits and the design of a Mission and Traffic Control Subsystem which is sufficiently flexible to be utilized in all types of aircraft."
"The capability of aircraft to navigate through space and to adhere to prearranged schedules directly determines the nature of the air traffic control system and the ability of this system to keep high density traffic moving safely and expeditiously. In turn, air traffic control concepts and practices can be revolutionized by increased use of new navigation techniques. Such a profound effect on the future system can be affected with automatized airborne deadreckoning equipment with or without the use of advanced techniques such as Doppler or inertial sensing. Properly applied, these aids will help to provide a growing ability to handle the increasing traffic load and at the same time maintain for all users of the airspace a highly desirable freedom and flexibility of movement. The relationship of self-contained aids to other navigation aids, to communications, and to the other elements of the common air traffic control system is treated in this paper. Also discussed are some of the problems involved in the integration of this technique in the over-all system."
"The words \"Common System\" have come to mean something very explicit in air user circles. They refer to a system of three parts for air-traffic control, navigation, and communication for the use of all aircraft, military and civil, in the skies over the United States. To date many \"black boxes\" have been invented as small parts of the system and these have been \"worked into\" the otherwise undefined system. Just as the television industry some years ago found need for a standard for the \"signal in space,\" users of the air need signals in space defined for the three parts of the common system. The following materials suggest the method of producing these standards so as to release the development laboratories on actual equipment design to utilize signals to be radiated or received on aircraft and on the ground in the manner best suited to the particular application at hand."
"This paper summarizes the role of dynamic simulation to date in helping solve current and future air-traffic control and navigation problems, and in evaluating proposed system concepts, control philosophies, procedures and equipments. A brief description is given of the CAA Technical Development Center's electromechanical -optical simulator, and some of its present limitations are outlined. Some of the more important requirements for a new universal simulator are presented and discussed both in terms of their necessity and their technical feasibility in view of the present state of the art. The requirements are broken down into four areas: target generation, communications, displays, and data reduction and analysis. These areas are viewed both from the standpoints of realism and its effect on simulation and from the standpoint of objectivity vs subjectivity in establishing meaningful criteria for evaluation. The paper concludes with a summary of those items still requiring further study."
"Conservatively sufficient conditions are found for satisfactory operation of many ground and airborne beacon sets in a relatively small area. Necessary conditions must be found in some more tedious manner, since several simplifying assumptions are made in the method described here. However, application of the method often allows a short paper analysis to suffice for showing system practicability. The methods suggested for adjusting the sets to allow for desired systemperformance are easily applied. An example of the application of the method is given in order to make the ideas presendted clearer."
"Two years ago, the scheduled airline industry presented an analysis of the midair collision problem and asked the electronic manufacturing industry to help solve the problem. This paper is a brief status report on the progress to date. It explains why the airlines are interested in a proximity warning indicator, when actually a collision avoidance system is needed, and specifies the airline operational requirements for these two systems. Recent interest of infrared equipment manufacturers in the problem, indicates that this technique might provide, at least, a partial interim solution to the problem. The paper concludes that the field is wide open, providing an excellent opportunity for some manufacturer to make a name for himself by coming up with a satisfactory solution."
"Both ground-based ATC (Air Traffic Control) and airborne CAS (Collision Avoidance Systems) are needed now and in the future to cope with the problem of collision aloft. They should be considered mutually complementary. The limited form of the CAS known as a PWI (Proximity Warning Indicator) is believed not to be sufficient for safety. The two essential elements of a CAS are 1) an indication of the effective maneuver to secure adequate miss distance, and 2) effective means for discovering and assessing the original risk. Miss distance produced by a maneuver never exceeds maneuver displacement. The ratio of the two may be low unless escape time is of the order of 30 seconds or more. In nearly all cases increasing escape time is more effective to insure adequate miss distance than is increasing maneuver severity. The preferred form of CAS would be self-sufficient, but this form appears not to be feasible for basic physical reasons. Cooperative CAS presents many problems, but is believed to have sufficient promise of success to justify careful study and substantial development effort."
"This paper describes and evaluates the various factors involved in selecting an all-weather, general-purpose, type of navigation system for the radio guidance of civil and military aircraft of all types at long distances from ground-based transmitters. An analysis is made of the factors which affect the range, accuracy, reliability, cost, suitability, and operational utilization of available and proposed radio navigational aids for long-range operation in the light of the most recent investigations and requirements of the Air Coordinating Committee and the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). Considerations affecting the \"optimum\" choice of frequencies are presented based upon the most current operational information of radio wave propagation. An \"optimum\" frequency of 60 kc is selected, based on minimum transmitter power requirements. A brief description is given of the principles involved in several representative continuous wave and pulse types of radial, circular, and hyperbolic position-fixing aids and a comparison is made of pertinent operational and technical characteristics leading to the choice of a possible general-purpose system for civil and military applications. Consideration is given to the possible improvement in the tolerable signal-to-noise ratio, and consequent range extension, of these systems by the application of cross-correlation, coherent, or synchronous detection techniques. Based upon the above criteria, an all-weather, single-site, combined radial and circular system, designated Navarho, is selected as possessing the greatest promise of fulfilling most of the requirements for a general-purpose, ground-referenced system, yielding information automatically, instantaneously, and directly to the pilot."
"Overviews current society and chapter news and events."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers. The Professional Group on Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics is an organization, within the framework of the IRE, of members with principal professional interest in Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics. All members of the IRE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive all Group publications upon payment of an annual assessment."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers. The Professional Group on Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics is an organization, within the framework of the IRE, of members with principal professional interest in Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics. All members of the IRE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive all Group publications upon payment of an annual assessment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper deals with airborne Doppler velocity measuring systems. In particular, it deals with the character and limitations of the velocity data provided by such systems. The Doppler effect is discussed and quantitative expressions for the frequency shift are derived. The relationship between the Doppler shift and aircraft velocity is such as to show that the fundamental capability of a Doppler system is the measurement, in the coordinate system of the aircraft, of one component of aircraft velocity for each beam of radiation employed. Certain effects of beam geometry on the measured velocity components are demonstrated quantitatively. The earth's surface as a medium for producing a radar return signal can be regarded as being constituted of a multitude of randomly situated scattering centers. The consequences of this as it bears on the nature and properties of the return signal are discussed. It is shown that the signal is noiselike and has a spectrum which is centered at a Doppler shifted frequency and which has an appreciable bandwidth. Outlines of theoretical methods for calculating the signal spectrum from a knowledge of antenna directional characteristics and other system and operational parameters are presented. It is shown that the frequency of the Doppler signal cannot be measured without error in a finite time."
"This paper is a report on a joint Bell-Bendix-Decca program to investigate the problems of flying a helicopter in remote areas under instrument flight conditions with presently available machines, the Decca navigator system, and other sensory equipment. The approach and transition phase to a remote landing spot under instrument conditions was of particular interest and present information displays were found to be unsuitable. During the development program a system was built, tested, and demonstrated that would allow complete instrument flight, including precise navigation along any desired flight path and ils type approaches to any desired landing spot in an area covered by the Decca navigation system. The program results clearly indicated that: 1) Flight in remote areas under zero-zero conditions is possible today. 2) The Decca navigation system is an excellent navigation, approach, and landing aid for helicopter instrument flight. 3) Unsatisfactory information displays are most responsible for the limited helicopter instrument flight operations possible today. Research programs to develop integrated displays must be continued."
"The recently developed SP-30 control system for commercial and military jet transport aircraft is discussed in this paper in terms of its operation, design, and performance. The modes of operation for a typical profile are summarized, and manual and automatic flight control features are described. Characteristic control equations are used to define the advanced automatic pilot principles which include inherent parameter control and inertial damping. The paper also presents flight test and analog data to verify the increased performance obtained with the SP-30 flight control system."
"Based on the experience gained during two years of simulation and flight testing of the air traffic control (atc) radar beacon system, this paper outlines the desired functional characteristics of an expanded beacon system for air traffic control and explains the operational factors involved. The expanded system would utilize recent developments in altitude transducers and multichannel activereadout decoding techniques, to provide the air traffic controller with a filtered display incorporating a positive cross reference between aircraft position, identification, and altitude data."
"Junction transistors and diodes are used to replace tubes and relays in a newly designed one-light marker beacon receiver. Ten transistors and three diodes are combined in a dual conversion superheterodyne receiver circuit which draws less than one watt of power and which has a sensitivity of 500 μv. Pass-band selectivity is 80 kc minimum at the 6-db down points and less than 300 kc at the 60-db down points. Dual conversion is used to transform the radio frequencies to a low IF for stable receiver gain. A three-light adapter has been developed utilizing seven junction transistors, two diodes, and miniature LC filters. The unit is the same size and weight as the one-light receiver. The weight of the entire three-light system is less than two pounds. The total current drain, from a 27.5-volt direct current supply, is less than 80 ma. A printed circuit board in a wrap-around case mounts most of the components in a design that withstands shock and vibration without the use of a shock mount."
"The Tacan radio air navigation aid has been adopted as a part of the common system of navigation in the United States. A study has been made of some of the problems involved in the implementation of the system. Predictions are made of the coverage to be expected in the air space surrounding a Tacan ground facility. The service to be expected in the presence of interfering Tacan signals is shown under various conditions. Channel requirements are indicated for implementation of the system in the continental United States."
"Overviews current society and chapter news and events."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers. The Professional Group on Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics is an organization, within the framework of the IRE, of members with principal professional interest in Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics. All members of the IRE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive all Group publications upon payment of an annual assessment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The nature of Doppler velocity measurement is reviewed briefly. This is followed by a discussion of the basic requirements for obtaining a usable signal for practical systems, which include achieving requisite coherence, fulfilling certain signal-to-noise criteria, and maintaining known functional relationships between measured Doppler frequencies and aircraft velocity. Then, those factors peculiar to over-water operation of Doppler systems are discussed. Techniques suitable for the design of systems that fulfill the various existing theoretical and practical requirements are considered. The various interrelated design considerations are grouped into five main categories: 1) choice of the number of beams to employ, 2) antenna stabilization, 3) type of antenna, 4) transmission-reception techniques, and 5) Doppler frequency measurement techniques. A summary of design considerations and the choices made in the cases of systems now declassified are contained in Tables I and III-VI."
"The fundamental concepts of a Doppler navigation system are described. The theory of operation, design considerations, performance characteristics, and limitations of a Doppler radar are discussed along with the basic principles and major characteristics of navigational computers and heading references. The over-all performance characteristics of a Doppler navigation system and their dependence on the various characteristics of its major components are analyzed. It is shown that the over-all system accuracy of a Doppler system is a function of the accuracies of all three major components of the system-the Doppler radar, the computer, and the heading reference. Thus, the over-all system accuracy is shown to be no better than that of its weakest link. In most current systems, it is the heading reference error which swamps the other errors in the system. The performance capabilities of typical modern Doppler navigation systems are outlined. Such systems are shown to provide information on ground speed, drift angle, present position, and course and distance to destination. Complete Doppler navigation systems have been or being built which will produce maximum (95 per cent probability) position errors of less than 1.5 per cent of distance traveled over land and average sea state (neglecting unknown water motion effects). The maximum position error over water of any sea state is likely to be less than 2 per cent of distance traveled. Over-all position errors in per cent of distance traveled tend to decrease with distance."
"Some of the considerations involved in the design of the Automatic Navigator, AN/APN-67, are presented along with a description and photographs of the equipment design selected. Characteristics of the Doppler signal are also described. The microwave part of the system utilizes two continuous-wave pencil beams generated by a klystron transmitter and a single fixed mounted, space duplexed antenna with offset antenna feeds. The Doppler data are stabilized by use of computing elements and vertical reference data. Advantages of this design relative to other alternatives are pointed out."
"The AN/APN-81 is a self-contained Doppler navigation system which accurately determines ground speed and drift angle independently of ground aids. This paper explains the techniques employed in the measurement of ground speed and drift angle. The beam pattern is described and major system parameters are given. In block diagram form, the functions of the transmitter and receiver, the frequency tracker, and the wind computer are explained. Accuracies of measurement and some specific applications of the equipment are given."
"This paper describes the AN/ASN-9-a miniaturized, dead-reckoning navigational computer. The design premises which allow its size reduction are explained; problem solution equations are given; and system functional diagrams are presented. Some of the techniques employed in achieving its small size are described, as are certain areas of its application."
"Radio and radar techniques will aid future space travelers in at least three major fields: navigation, communications, and collision warning. In space the basic limitation to any navigational or communications system is the achievable range. Presentday techniques are capable of providing point-to-point beamed coverage of the entire solar system, but they are inadequate for omnidirectional coverage even to the nearest planet. Sufficient advances in the state of the art by 1975 are foreseen to insure omnidirectional coverage within the orbit of Jupiter. Communications to the nearest stars appear impossible even with anticipated 1975 techniques, and radar warning systems against meteors appear impractical."
"Overviews current society and chapter news and events."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"A comprehensive listing of the authors, articles and departments included in 1957."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A wide range survey instrument is described. Ranges are 20 mr/hour to 20 r/hour full scale. The thin plastic ionization chamber is easily replaced if contaminated. A three-tube, negative feedback circuit with low battery drain is used. The input resistor selector switch is a new design with high insulation. It is nonmicrophonic and does not cause transients when changing ranges."
"An individual dynode voltage regulating system has been devised which can be mounted on the phototube socket in much the same manner as, and with no more difficulty than, the common bleeder resistance voltage divider. Two types of these regulators have been investigated; the first using silicon diodes, and the second using NE-2 neon tubes. The statistical spread of beta-ray counts was reduced from (±) six standard deviations to nearly the normal spread of (±) three standard deviations. The photometric sensitivity range of linearity was increased by an order of magnitude."
"This paper describes the problem of simulating nuclear reactor start-up with an electronic analog computer. The reactor kinetic equations are discussed and the range that their solution must cover is defined. Source range simulation and alternate methods of simulating the intermediate range are presented. The use of reactor period signal in the intermediate range is described. In the power range, which includes a representation of the heating and temperature effects, the inherent advantages of a pressurized water reactor are outlined. The portion of the start-up simulation which applies to nuclear reactors in general is summarized. The areas of modification necessary for the simulation of other than pressurized water reactors is outlined."
"The problem of measuring fundamental characteristics of an inherently stable power-producing reactor is described. It is noted that, in the power range of operation of such a plant, reactivity is a function not only of control rod position, but also of power itself. The mechanism of the latter effect involves the variòus inherent coefficients of reactivity. The result is that conventional, low-power methods can be used neither to obtain rod calibrations, nor to determine temperature coefficient in the very range of operation where these characteristics assume importance. It is shown that a number of parameters including those mentioned above may be measured by effecting small sinusoidal perturbations in control rod position over a range of frequencies. The resultant frequency responses are analyzed by the familiar transfer function-block diagram method. Certain inherent advantages of the method are cited including: 1) Ability to separate effects which predominate in different frequency regions. 2) Improved reproducibility of power range measurements. Disturbances induced by steam plant changes, inherently nonreproducible, are avoided. 3) Good accuracy of data. The measurement replies primarily on good differential accuracy, easier to obtain from operational instrumentation than good absolute accuracy. 4) Ability to check data reproducibility by obtaining several cycles of data at each frequency. A brief description is included of the manner by which the technique is used to determine the following nuclear properties: 1) Perturbing rod calibration, 2) Temperature coefficient of reactivity, 3) Neutron generation lifetime, 4) Fractional production of delayed neutrons, 5) Mean delayed neutron decay constant."
"A self-checking system of circuits is expected to provide a new high in operational reliability for the set of radiation monitors described. Developed under sponsorship of the Bureau of Ships, these monitors can readily be adapted for application in any nuclear installation where radiation monitoring must be performed. Three basic channels are provided to measure accurately the gamma radiation in the range from 1 to 1000 mr/hr, the thermal neutron flux from 20 to 20,000 thermal neutrons/cm2 sec, and the air-particle concentration from 10-9 to 10-6, μC/cm3 or from 10-8 to 10-5 μC/cm3. Checking of each channel is performed by periodically (and automatically) placing a small radioactive source next to the detecting element in each channel. This results in a signal near the maximum range of each channel. During such checks, the alarm-indicating circuit is disconnected and the channel output applied to a comparator circuit; there will result a \"circuit fault\" indication if any part of the signal-handling or the checking circuits has failed. The philosophy and the limitations of the checking scheme are discussed. The calibration of the air-particle channel is in terms of a specific isotope. Calibrations for other isotopes can be prepared. Shielding is applied to the detecting element in the air-particle channel in order to minimize counts due to the ambient gamma background. The gamma detector has shielding to equalize its response to radiation at energies between 80 kev and 2 mev."
"This paper compares the stability of a given heterogeneous core when operated with a pressurized or subcooled water cooling system in which the power is removed by boiling. In order to provide a basis for comparison the following assumptions are made: 1) reactor power is the same in both cases, 2) the core geometry is the same in both cases, 3) in the case of subcooled operation, coolant flow rate and core inlet temperature are held constant, and 4) in the case of boiling operation reactor pressure is constant. Assumptions 3) and 4) imply that the load equals power generated at all times. The core geometry and the values of the various system parameters are taken from published literature wherever possible. It is shown that the results of this analysis are readily predictable from physical reasoning."
"A study of the nonlinear kinetics of heterogeneous reactors can lead to basic design criteria which are useful in designing stability into a given reactor. The design of most reactors is usually based upon other physical parameters such as reactivities, heat transfer surfaces, metallurgical conditions, and operating lifetimes. The question of reactor stability is often deferred on the design schedule until these other parameters have so closely bounded the design that only incidental changes are possible. It is fortunate that many reactors are naturally stable over wide ranges of design conditions. Nonlinear kinetics have been examined in two ways in the past. The first method is to modify the basic reactor kinetic equations to include the effects of temperature, pressure, or poisoning. Solutions of these equations generally can be obtained with some approximation being needed. The second method consists of obtaining the transfer function of a simple reactor and modifying the characteristics of this reactor by feedback networks. The first method has been used successfully by Weinberg and Ergen for homogeneous reactors and by Lipkin and others for heterogeneous reactors. The second method is an engineering one which is capable of giving considerable information over a wide range of variables and will be used in this paper with suitable approximation to examine the stability of heterogeneous reactors."
"This paper gives a description of the organization and functioning of the Electronic Division of the Atomic Energy Commission of France. The Division is organized into four sections, Physical Electronics, General Electronics, Industrial Electronics, and Radioactive Isotopes Measurement. The sections are subdivided into groups. There are approximately 200 persons in the Division. Descriptions are given in this paper of typical development projects and method of operation. Some examples of interesting instruments are given together with a brief description of their operation."
"The basic, underlying variable of reactor control is the reactivity. We may regard the reactivity as a measure of the deviation from equilibrium of the neutron balance in a reactor. Or more precisely, we may define the reactivity as the average excess number of neutrons produced per fission that cause further fission, \"excess\" being the number over and above the one-neutron-per-fission that is required to maintain a self-sustaining fission reaction. Reactor control may be described as the process of changing the neutron environment within a reactor so as to produce momentary excursions in the reactivity from its equilibrium value of zero. The measurement of these excursions in reactivity is the subject of this paper. Two electrical analog computer designs are described which compute the reactivity from electrical signals which are provided by conventional reactor instrumentation systems. One computer utilizes a neutron flux input signal; the other employs a log-rate (of neutron flux) input signal. Applications of these computers in control system analysis and reactor instrumentation are discussed."
"In a unique experiment just completed in Santa Monica Bay, CA, USA, radioactive isotopes were successfully used to trace dispersion of sewage effluent in ocean waters. The results help to establish proper design procedures to insure against beach pollution in a current expansion of the Los Angeles sewage system. To effect the experiment twenty curies of scandium-46 were mixed with sewage effluent and discharged into the sea. Scientists aboard a laboratory ship then took radioactive measurements over a wide area to determine dilution rate and direction of diffusion."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The problem studied in this paper is the numerical solution of the two-group diffusion equations describing the reactivity and power distribution of a nuclear power reactor. The problem is treated in two dimensions (Cartesian coordinates). The method of solution by replacement of the differential equations by finite difference equations is outlined. The properties of the resulting matrices are studied in detail. The method of successive overrelaxation is described and the theory developed. The convergence properties of the method and its application is indicated."
"A nomograph is presented which has proved to be useful in calculations related to the design of high-energy particle accelerators. Rest mass is given in the range from 0.0001 to 100 atomic mass units with the energy equivalent of this mass in electron volts. The final velocity and mass of the particle are given for a range of energies from 5000 to 1015 electron volts. The equation for particle velocity is given in the form υ/c = [1 - 1/(1 + E/E0)2]½, where E is the particle energy and E0 is the energy equivalent of its rest mass. The frequency required for operation of a proton synchrotron is determined to illustrate the use of the nomograph."
"A scintillation alpha counter utilizing a zinc sulfide fluor, a multiplier phototube, and a two-stage vacuum tube amplifier has been developed. A neon-bulb oscillator high-voltage supply is used to supply 900 volts to the multiplier phototube, and headphones are used to obtain an aural indication of counting. The average geometry or counting efficiency over the 7.43-inch2 probe area is approximately 13 per cent with variations from a maximum counting efficiency at probe center of 18 to 22 per cent down to approximately 7 to 8 per cent at the probe edges. The background counting rate is less than one count per minute, and the battery life is approximately 150 hours of continuous operation for the 3-1/2 pound instrument."
"A simple continuous monitor for airborne alpha particles is described. The single-channel system can detect activity concentrations of ten times maximum permissible level for plutonium and gives indication of accumulated activity at 10-minute intervals. The instrument is designed with emphasis on simplicity, reliability, flexibility of use, and ease of decontamination."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Synchronous-machine torques due to out-of-phase synchronizing may be quite large; larger in fact than those encountered during a 3-phase short circuit. Previous works have presented various forms of equations to calculate these torques.1-3,6 With the advent of the widespread use of systems analyzers and computers, it becomes convenient to use more exact equations to calculate synchronous machine transient performance. The objectives of this paper are to present the derivation of the equations for the currents and electrical torques which occur when turbine generators are synchronized out of phase; to show how these electrical torques arise; to illustrate the application of these equations to the problem of calculating the transient mechanical torques in a large, multiunit turbine-generator set under these conditions."
"1. The concept of fully reliable and secure communication facilities, completely separate from the power system, provides a new approach to problems of system design, relay protection, and system operations. 2. Initial tests demonstrate that microwave equipment can provide these communication facilities and that its use for protective relaying communications is practical. 3. Protective relaying by the use of microwave presents the following advantages: (a). No power system components or connections are used, with the following results: (1) The number of high-voltage components are reduced thus minimizing equipment failures which might cause customer outages. (2) Component failures need not cause circuit outages; stand-by equipment is practical and economical. (3) Maintenance of the equipment can be done without circuit outages. (4) Personnel and system hazards are minimized because of the reduced high-voltage switching for construction and maintenance needs. (5) The problem of additional space required for 1,200-ampere traps and for coupling devices as in carrier-relaying installations is avoided. (b). A new degree of freedom is available for integrating older parts of the system into new system requirements. (c) Multiterminal line-relaying problems are minimized and satisfactory system performance can be realized with microwave relaying from many system configurations formerly considered unsatisfactory because of relaying limitations. 4. The zone-comparison method can readily be applied to available types of relays and even existing relay installations. The control circuitry required is relatively simple."
"Since the switching-surge voltage, rather than the lightning-surge protection, is the predominating factor in the design and application of 2-step-down BIL transformers, further work is necessary to establish industry standards for evaluating protection under these conditions. In the meantime, added service experience with 2-step-down BIL transformers will be obtained and a successful record with these transformers and arresters will lead to more general use of reduced insulation with its associated savings to the industry."
"This paper discusses briefly the historic background and reasoning behind the application of an insulation level reduced two steps in transformers used on the American Gas and Electric Company (AG&E) 132-kv system and the operating experience obtained on seven transformers banks using this insulation level. It also indicates advantages that may be obtained by using this low level of insulation."
"1. The BILs set initially in the 1941 report of the AIEE-EEI-NEMA Committee on Insulation Co-ordination10 have proved to be sound, with adequate flexibility for economic application. The authors have worked effectively with this framework. The 60-cycle rating of the lightning arrester is the base point for determining a suitable BIL, and therefore must be selected only after full and careful consideration of all factors affecting the arrester operation in service. 2. Aimed for margins between lightning-arrester protective levels and BIL have generally been 30%, but 20% margins have been used. With the newer (1955) arresters, much larger margins have become available. 3. Systems with grounded neutrals can, in general, be protected by lightning arresters rated 80% or less than those used on isolated neutral systems. Since system rated voltages follow a pattern in which any system voltage is roughly 80% of the next higher one, the required BIL follow approximately the same pattern, assuming similar margins of protection between BIL and lightning-arrester protective levels. Because of this, one level down in BIL has been a logical and safe step where station-type arresters are used, so far as safe lightning protection is concerned. 4. With the newer arresters (1955) having some 20% lower impulse level, two steps down in insulation is in some cases possible. 5. Substantial economies in transformer first cost are possible in applying reduced insulation on transformers in insulation classes of 92 kv and over; below the 92-kv class the saving is very small or nonexistent."
"This paper deals with the effects of electric shocks on the circulation and respiration. It points out that electric shocks of the order of 0.1 ampere may interrupt the normal rhythm of the heart and throw it into a twitching state called ventricular fibrillation. A shock of several amperes will, on the other hand, simply contract the heart and hold it in that state until the circuit is opened. Currents of this magnitude will often temporarily paralyze the breathing, but the heart will usually resume beating when the circuit is broken. Artificial respiration, if promptly applied, will often give nature time to overcome the respiratory paralysis, but is of no assistance in stopping the fibrillation of the heart. Ventricular fibrillation can be terminated by sending sufficient current through the heart to arrest it completely. Then, when the circuit is opened, the heart will generally resume beating. This defibrillating current may be sent through the heart by electrodes on the skin of the chest. The results of 248 experiments with electrodes on the skin of the chest are presented. The importance of promptness in defibrillating the heart and in starting artificial respiration in electric shock cases is emphasized. A description of a simple apparatus for treating ventricular fibrillation is also given."
"It is believed that, for the first time in this country, a comprehensive test program involving the controlled service exposure of ACSR conductors in various heavy-corrosion environments has been put into operation. With the variables of weather known and the variables of conductor construction, installation, operation, and sampling controlled, much valuable data on the behavior of such conductors has been obtained and will continue to accumulate. The observations and the reported changes in electrical, mechanical, and chemical properties of the various conductors form a somewhat general picture of initial weathering. Most of the changes are negligible; others appear surprisingly large. It is not possible to say at this time which of the changes will bear significant influences on service life. This first year of exposure is undoubtedly a form of adjustment period; the changes therein may be expected to be large. The following stages of weathering may be expected to be slower as the various exposed surfaces tend towards equilibrium with their environments. Several interesting facts concerning the initial weathering period for ACSR conductors have emerged. Some of these, briefly summarized, are as follows: 1. Exposure on the Pacific Coast at San Diego, Calif., has proved thus far to be the most severe of the marine weathering environments. 2. Exposure at the industrial site of Hammond, Ind., and the Salt Lake area has caused little or no change in the conductors thus far. 3. The single-layer no."
"A method of measuring the loss in a fully processed core lamination is presented, including a mathematical analysis of the measuring circuitry. A servo-type flux density control and computer circuit as well as a calibration circuit are described which allow rapid testing of core material under normal operating conditions. High-speed testing essential for quality control and statistical studies is provided."
"This bibliography is a continuation of similar bibliographies of relay literature published previously and contained in the following volumes of the AIEE Transactions: 1927-1939, vol. 60, 1941, 1435-1446; 1940-1943, vol. 63, 1944, 705-709; 1944-1946, vol. 67, Pt. 1, 1948, 24-27; 1947-1949, vol. 70, Pt. 1, 1951, 247-250; 1950-1952, vol. 74, Pt. III, 1955, 45-48. The papers listed include those in the field of relaying, as well as in associated fields, published in this country. Included are articles covering relaying, as well as service restoration, testing, system stability, methods of calculation, instrument transformers and other auxiliary devices. Depending upon the general substance of each article, the listing of the titles is subdivided into 13 sections. The entries in each section are listed by year in alphabetical order, the name of the first author determining the alphabetical position. A list of the periodicals which are cited is given on page 128 of this issue."
"Previous solutions of the stray loss problem in transformer windings have been made on the assumption that the winding turns contain only one conductor. In a stranded winding this solution represents only the eddy-current loss component of the total stray losses. A second loss component is caused by circulating currents flowing back and forth between the strands. This circulating-current loss depends upon the relative physical location of the strands throughout the winding. Considering various types of stranding, this paper gives equations and charts for the circulatingcurrent loss in a number of different coil constructions as well as for the eddy-current loss."
"The two newest developments in power generation, supercritical-pressure cycles and nuclear reactors, are imposing additional requirements on powerhouse auxiliary systems. The conventional system of the past must be modified to accommodate larger total loads, larger single loads, and more stringent service continuity requirements. New auxiliary system layouts must be made with full recognition of heatcycle peculiarities and new operating procedures. Boiler-feed-pump power-supply and bus-transfer requirements are the areas of interest receiving special discussion in supercritical-pressure plant design. For a nuclear plant, main coolant-pump power supply and continuity of service to other vital loads deserve special attention. This paper discusses the plant heat cycles from the auxiliary system viewpoint, outlines the auxiliary system requirements, and gives typical solutions used by plants in the design and construction stages."
"The presence of current-carrying conductors near conducting surfaces induces eddy-current flow in the conducting surfaces and causes resistive and reactive losses to be reflected to the source of supply. In the heavy current field such losses appear in bus-bar installations, rotating equipment, transformers, and other electrical equipment. In large power transformers in which the low-voltage connections may carry 6,000 amperes rms or more, the resulting magnetic field intensity is 220 oersteds or more at a distance of 3 inches. Test data are presented for two conditions: 1. a single lead parallel to a conducting magnetically permeable surface of typical steel transformer tank plate material and 2. a single lead parallel to the same surface covered with 1/4-inch-thick aluminum plate. A unique test fixture design is descibed with which data have been obtained to establish a correlation between current, conductor-to-plate spacing, and loss. It is shown that loss is not a function of current squared when considering steel alone, but is a function of current to a power less than two, with the power a function of conductor-to-plate spacing. Test data are compared with values calculated from a previous paper relating current in a current filament to induced loss in a semi-infinite solid.1 Electrical and magnetic characteristics are presented for the steel-plate and aluminum-shielding material used in the tests."
"A new air-blast circuit breaker rated at 138 kv, 1,600 amperes, 10,000 mva (megavolt-amperes) has been developed for outdoor service on the lines of a large metropolitan utility. Designed as individual, double-break interrupter units mounted above conventional outdoor current transformers, the several columns of the breaker are mounted on a supporting framework and provided with a central control housing. Each interrupter is mounted inside its individual air storage tank for maximum interrupter efficiency. The use of porcelain for air tubes or interrupter housings to contain high-pressure air has been avoided in order to gain high safety factors in design. Dry air bleed for insulation protection is not required. The breaker is designed to handle a recovery voltage rate of 1,000 volts/μsec (per microsecond) at rated current interrupting value."
"The winding temperature rises of a representative sealed dry-type transformer are measured for a variety of loads following several steady-state conditions. These data are converted to hottest-spot temperatures utilizing previously published hottest-spot increments considering a variety of transformer geometries. Aging rates used for these temperatures are those of presently used materials as determined by several investigators. Aging curves for these overload cycles are then computed and the allowable loads determined for normal life expectancy as well as for a few specified per-cent loss of life criteria."
"This paper contains a mathematical demonstration of some new aspects of Fixed Charges comprised of three most significant and interrelated components, namely: return, depreciation, and taxes which depend directly on such return and on the treatment accorded depreciation in their computations. Such mathematical demonstration is culminated in a set of new general formulas for determining levelized annual Fixed Charges. They are compared with formulas established by the conventional technique, demonstrating that such formulas in general are only good approximations of theoretical considerations, and that under certain conditions of investment growth laws they do not provide results with acceptable engineering accuracies. A simplified set of formulas is suggested for the calculation of Fixed Charges for everyday use in a great majority of cases. In conclusion, as a result of the mathematical investigations, it is pointed out that there could be other aspects of this problem which may require further explorations and that such additional studies might show other necessary modifications to the conventional technique."
"This paper describes the design and performance of a new type of induction motor capable of extremely fast starting and reversing. Several experimental 3-phase 60-cycle motors are described, with the best unit having a linear-torque speed characteristic, a maximum horsepower (hp) of 0.175, a starting time of 0.015 second, and a reversal time of 0.026 second. These times compare to 0.039 and 0.053 second respectively for an experimental low-inertia 3-phase 60-cycle motor of conventional construction but designed for fast response, and to 0.21 and 0.38 second respectively for a commercial 1/4-hp 3-phase 60-cycle motor. The motor dimensions are shown in Fig. 1. This performance is achieved by substituting for the conventional design of a squirrel-cage rotor a new 2-part rotor consisting of an outer low-inertia hollow rotor constructed in the form of a thin magnesium sleeve that surrounds the iron core needed to complete the magnetic circuit efficiently. In effect this arrangement serves to separate the major torque-producing part of the rotor, embodied in the magnesium sleeve, from the large inertia-contributing part, the iron core, by assembling the core as a free-running part on the magnesium sleeve shaft. Bars of soft magnetic material are inserted in the magnesium sleeve so that the effective air gap between the stator and the inner core is comparable to the air gap of a conventional squirrel-cage rotor."
"The d-c dynamic braking torque speed curve of a-c motors, dependent upon a magnetizing reactance which varies progressively throughout the speed range, is approximated by a discontinuous curve dependent upon the magnetizing-reactance values at standstill and top speed only. The former reactance corresponds to the full d-c excitation, while the latter is the unsaturated value. By this means, the torque speed curve is expressed by a simple mathematical relationship. The validity of this simplification is investigated by comparison with an accurate method of deducing the curve, published recently by the author, for any degree of magnetic saturation and value of the leakage reactance. Good agreement is obtained at all except the largest values of torque, which occur over a comparatively small speed range. In consequence, the stopping time and total energy loss of the motor, which are dependent upon the integration of the inverse torque throughout the speed range for an inertia load, are readily determined with considerable accuracy by the simplified theory, using derived mathematical relationships. Further, the value of secondary resistance which provides the minimum stopping time and energy loss can be readily deduced. Experimental confirmation of the theory is included."
"The addition of the GEDA computer to the automatic load-frequency control has given the system efficient economic control on an automatic basis. Simple Leeds and Northrup-computing circuits are being added to the control equipment at each plant, so as to allocate load among the units in the plants in the same manner as the GEDA computer assumes in its calculations. However, system response to regulating demands is independent of the economic allocation and overrides such allocation if necessary. The computer is supervising the control of the system approximately 95 per cent of the time, and in operation has met all expectations as to accuracy and flexibility. Also, use of the computer has eliminated many scheduling chores and has relieved engineering and operating personnel of tedious arithmetic tabulation work which was necessary with the preparation of precalculated dispatches. Operator acceptance has been quite enthusiastic and it is becoming increasingly more difficult to get them to allow the engineers to use it for other purposes."
"Most of the performance characteristics of these canned motors may be calculated by well-known methods. The most unique feature of these motors is the presence of a stator and rotor can in the air gap. Simple equations for the calculation of the losses, in watts, in these cans were derived and are repeated. W=15.5B2n2D3ltX10-16/ρ (1) or W=0.7854(Vø/N)2 (2) stator can loss = KS × W (3) rotor-can ripple loss = 1.3(bt/bs(Kcs-1)2 Kr×W (4) The summation of these two losses should be added to the no-load iron loss as part of the total no-load losses. In certain cases, it may also, be found desirable to calculate the no-load damper loss, particularly in cases where the number of rotor slots differs from the number of stator slots by more than 25 percent. At full load, both the can losses and the iron losses are reduced because of the drop in fundamental flux density in the air gap. However, a number of tests indicate that this reduction is approximately compensated by an increase in stray load losses. The effect of stator magnetomotiveforce harmonics on the notor can loss was calculated for a number of cases and found to be generally negligible at no load. The lower-order harmonics such as the fifth and seventh, which may have appreciable magnitude, are largely damped by induced currents in the rotor; since one pole pitch of these harmonics will generally span more than one rotor slot pitch."
"This paper presents the results of a study concerned with: 1. The determination of the most economic time to add new turbogenerator units to an electrical utility system or, equivalently, the determination of an optimum reserve generating capacity policy. 2. The determination of the most economic sizes of units to be added to the system. As this paper shows, these two problems are interrelated and methods for their solution are developed and presented. Reserve generating requirements vary for each individual power system, and are affected by: 1. The number and sizes of the generating units within the system. 2. The probability of a forced outage for units within the system. 3. The additional available power that can be obtained from other sources such as interconnections. 4. Scheduled or preventive maintenance requirements. 5. Customer demand for power. 6. The maximum risk of shortage to be tolerated. In the past, most of the power utility companies in the United States had approximately the same distribution of sizes of generating units within each system, and the same risk of shortage was accepted by each company. Consequently, it was possible to use a rule of thumb to calculate the total reserve requirements that should be carried by each company. However, with the introduction of the large, high-pressure generating units that are being installed today, it is no longer possible to use a constant percentage in determining the reserve requirements."
"The high-altitude corona and r.i. test installation at Leadville has been fully described in this and companion papers. It is hoped that the data obtained from this project will supply the information needed to design practical, high-altitude high-voltage transmission lines with assurance of their satisfactory corona, r.i., and mechanical performance. The test facility incorporates a number of innovations in switching and metering arrangements which should permit obtaining the maximum amount of useful data during the life of the test program."
"1. The decision to use all spar-member construction for a 230-kv wood-pole H-frame line was based on 16 years of satisfactory service from 115-and 138-kv lines with spar arms. 2. The use of 12 insulators for suspension strings results in a co-ordinated design with liberal margin for switching surges and a low lightning outage probability. 3. All spar-member construction permits application of hardware which facilitates structure assembly with a minimum of field drilling. 4. Tests on full-size structures show they have a safety factor of more than 4½ times maximum design transverse loading. 5. Tests confirm earlier findings of others that crushed-rock backfill for poles holes is an effective way to increase resistance to uplift on poles. 6. Highly mechanized line-construction operations result in time and cost savings."
"When a d-c machine commutates, abrupt pulsations of bar-to-bar voltage occur under the brushes. This paper presents an analytical method of determining bar-to-bar voltage as a function of time during commutation. The results of the method are applied to several large d-c machines and compared with oscillograph data. With the advent of highspeed digital computers, the method is readily adaptable to design use, and provides the designer with a new tool for predicting commutation performance."
"Certain features of construction and operational performance of transmission fault locators now in use in Japan have been described. During the past decade, the locators have been proved competent for practical use. Although they are not yet completely accurate, the authors put the emphasis on achieving reliability, for the locators are normally in stand-by status and should operate with certainty on the rare occasions when faults occur. Each member of the technical committee on transmission line fault locator in Japan is making a continuous effort to obtain more accurate and more economical locators, and is also studying the fundamental problems, such as noise and propagation of locating pulse for various conditions."
"A method of calculating the corona and radio-interference generating characteristics of either single or bundled transmission-line conductors is presented. Briefly the calculations are made in six steps by following the simple procedure outlined in the section \"Method of Calculation.\" The concept of representing a bundled conductor by an \"equivalent diameter\" is presented and confirmed by the test results. Using this concept, it is shown that a single 1.602-inch-diameter ACSR conductor is approximately equivalent to a 2-conductor bundle of 795-MCM ACSR \"Drake\" conductors or a 3-conductor bundle of 477-MCM ACSR \"Hawk\" conductors. Likewise a single 1.75-inchdiameter conductor is approximately equivalent to a 2-conductor bundle of 954-MCM ACSR \"Cardinal\" conductors."
"1. When a quasipeak-type RN meter is used for the measurement of a corona noise, it is advisable to calibrate the meter with a pulse generator. 2. A procedure of calibration and a calibration chart are given. Consistent readings have been obtained for all the meters so calibrated. 3. Within the range of measurements the RN meter readings are linearly proportional to the voltage of square pulses and to the pulse width between 2 and 200 millimicroseconds above which the increase is no longer linear. 4. A given RI level can result from a variety of corona patterns characterized by the number, magnitude polarity, width, and distribution of pulses. These characteristics can sometimes be used to differentiate between the types of corona noise. 5. A good correlation between corona pulses and RI values can be obtained for a given setup if the repetition rate is known for each group of pulses of equal magnitude 6. Sudden jumps of RI were observed when an electrode with sharp points was subjected to a critical voltage. The instability was associated with the onset of corona pulses in the positive half cycle of the applied voltage. 7. Since moist insulating points cause much higher corona pulses and RI than metal points, it is possible that vegetation deposits on transmission-line conductors are more liable to cause RI than are surface imperfections. 8."
"The paper is concerned with the effect of clearing time on the transient stability of a 2-machine system. An equivalent electronic analog interconnection for the equations of the system is used for the solution of the problem. The analog is based on a modified form of Park's equations and it allows for the variation of field flux linkage with time during a transient disturbance. Results of a sample problem show boundaries of stability as functions of clearing time for different positions of a 3-phase earth fault."
"At Eastlake every step has been questioned: Is this the most reliable method? Is it the lowest in first cost? Does this give the lowest operating cost? Is this the lowest over-all cost? Will this scheme lend itself to expansion? Are we investing money for future work only to restrict ourselves in such a way that when future additions become necessary we will feel this restriction? In addition to this questioning, a check with others was also conducted, and it is felt that the decisions made have a broad base. The co-operation obtained from the many people, both in the company and outside, is directly proportional to the data and background given these people and the co-operation offered them. No suggestion should be evaluated on the basis of its origin. It is hoped that everybody associated with this project feels he has a worth-while contribution to it. The electrical facilities at Eastlake from generator terminals to existing transmission lines 2½ miles away cost less than $10 per kilowatt net capability. No other extension of the transmission system is required for this increase of 30% in system generating capacity. It is confidently felt that good progress has been made in economy of design and that every advantage of the new plant's location has been capitalized. This paper was written before the first unit was placed in service and has been brought up to date for publication."
"Two modified-silicone conductor insulations were evaluated in motors in which the balance of the system was of conventional class B construction. These motors were tested and the results were compared with those obtained from life tests of the conventional organic-treated glass-served wire class B insulated motors. This comparison showed that class B life could be expected using either of these modified-silicone wire enamels. The results showed that use of the modified-silicone wire enamels in an otherwise conventional class H motor insulation system provided a longer life than that obtained from the same modified-silicone wire enamels when used in an otherwise class B motor insulation system. In other test motors the same two modified-silicone enamels were substituted for conventional silicone-treated glass-served conductor insulation in an otherwise class H system. The results were compared with those obtained from the conventional class H motor insulation system. This comparison showed that the life of the systems incorporating the modified-silicone conductor insulations was less than the life obtained with conventional class H motors with silicone-treated glass-served conductor insulation."
"A significant and interesting difference between American and European practice in the manufacture of mass-impregnated paper-insulated cables for low and medium voltage is that, while in Europe oil-rosin compounds are widely used as the saturant, in the United States straight oils or hydrocarbon blends with oils find the widest application, and rosin compounds are not favored. The author considers this difference in techniques to be of sufficient interest to warrant investigation, and the European viewpoint supporting the use of oil and rosin blends is presented in this paper. In recent years wax-bearing compounds have been developed for the mass impregnation of cables required to be nondraining in service. These cables are finding ever-increasing markets for voltages up to 11 kv. Oilostatic cables, which are favored in the United States, are not widely used in Europe for operation at the higher voltages, for which hollow-core or gas pressure designs are preferred. The characteristics of oils for these applications are discussed. Much of the material supports and corroborates the work of previous investigators (see the list of references)."
"A sensitive and convenient method for balancing hydroelectric units under operating conditions is described. This method uses electric strain gage equipment to obtain the amplitude and phase angle of the unbalance effects. The method includes trial runs with known amounts of unbalance added, and the analysis of the unbalance signals by a combined graphical and analytical procedure to determine the required balance corrections. The results obtained in balancing a machine are given to illustrate the application of the method. A method has been developed for the dynamic balancing of hydroelectric units using electric strain gage equipment. Application of this balancing procedure to the successful balancing of a number of 2-and 3-bearing machines has demonstrated that suitable unbalance data can be obtained by the use of SR-4 strain gages and that required balance corrections can be calculated from such data. This use of highly sensitive SR-4 strain gage equipment for measuring unbalance effects, together with a rational method of interpreting the data, provides a convenient means of obtaining better results in less time than was formerly realized by the cut-and-try process of balancing. Through the use of this system of balancing, many days of outage for maintenance are saved and maintenance costs are reduced substantially."
"This paper describes the theory and test results of a proposed system which operates one phase of the fan motor in series with the running capacitor of the compressor motor in an air-conditioning unit. With a fan motor having nonquadrature concentrated windings, the following points have been established: 1. The over-all power factor, efficiency, and starting torque compare favorably with a system employing a separate permanent capacitor fan motor. 2. There is a good possibility that the motor cost is comparable with that of a shaded-pole motor. While the winding cost is higher than that of a shaded-pole motor, the motor size is considerably reduced. This is possible, as the efficiency of the new motor is comparatively high. It is expected that the reduction in material cost might be sufficient to offset the higher winding cost. 3. There is no detrimental effect on the compressor motor whatsoever. 4. The required running capacitor and control switch are the same as conventional systems for both single-speed and 2-speed operations."
"Recommendations for grounding metal structures surrounding single-polarity d-c circuits are different from those for surrounding ungrounded d-c or a-c systems. For more than 50 years, it has been common practice to insulate the surrounding structures of d-c apparatus (300 volts and over) where one polarity is grounded and switching is done only on the opposite polarity. When the electric system is ungrounded, 2-pole circuit breakers are used and the surrounding structures are grounded as explained in AIEE Report no. 953.1 Case histories show that danger to personnel results from high currents rather than high voltage. Applications in the mining, heavy industrial (steel mill for example), railway, and electrochemical fields are separately discussed and recommendations drawn for the maximum safety to personnel and equipment."
"From the test data available it is felt that the controlled deflections and the runner clearance adjustments requested by the customer will be successfully achieved. This may lead to further use of the sealing feature on future pumpturbine applications. If future applications do develop, the turbine manufacturer and the customer are in a position to exploit this development because the generator design can accommodate their needs."
"The populated area of Alberta, comprising approximately the southern half, receives electric service from an extensive network of high-voltage transmission lines which link all the major production facilities in the Province. This transmission network facilitates the joint development of a substantial hydro power potential and large reserves of low-cost coal and natural gas. Calgary Power Ltd., which supplies some two thirds of the electric energy requirements throughout much of the populated area of Alberta, is particularly well situated to develop both of these power sources. Large thermal-electric plants are being designed and constructed for base load operation and hydroelectric plants are being extended to supply the peak load requirements. Fuel costs of 10½ cents per million Btu or less, and low operating costs, by the use of central control equipment, enable Calgary Power to produce base load energy at a lower cost in thermal-electric plants than is possible from the remaining hydroelectric sites. Peaking capacity can, in general, be provided more economically from automatically controlled hydroelectric plants than in thermal plants as the incremental cost of hydro capacity does not include the cost of such major hydraulic structures as dams and spillways. Minimum power production costs are obtained by Calgary Power when thermal-electric and hydroelectric plants are integrated with the thermal plants carryig the base load and hydro plants the peak load. These two major sources of electric energy are therefore treated as complementary to, and not competitive with, each other."
"Results of the study may be summarized as follows: 1. A number of d-c overhead and underground power-transmission systems were designed, with a-c generation and electronic power converters at both ends, operating on a constant-voltage principle. The d-c systems are designed for the same security and reliability conditions as the corresponding a-c systems, to the extent compatible with the particular characteristics of the two types of systems. The overhead and the underground buried lines are designed as 2-conductor systems with midpoints grounded. The underground systems are also designed on the single-conductor ground-return principle, for the ratio of direct-to-alternating operating voltages to ground k= 3.0, 4.5, and 6.0. 2. The capital cost of d-c systems, as estimated, includes the transmission line and the terminal substations equipment, but does not include the electronic converters. This cost is calculated as a percentage of the estimated capital cost of a-c transmission systems-transmission line and all equipment of the terminal and intermediate substations-transmitting same blocks of power over same distances as the d-c systems. This is shown in Figs. 1 and 2. The estimated capital cost of the d-c transmission lines alone, calculated as a percentage of the estimated capital cost of corresponding a-c lines, taken between the terminal substations, is represented in Figs. 3 and 4. 3. The percentage difference in the costs of a-c systems and thus estimated costs of corresponding d-c systems, as shown in Figs."
"This discussion of the performance of the more common types of corona measurement circuits has emphasized certain points. They may be summarized as follows: 1. The coulomb charge in individual corona discharges and the number and phase of these individual discharges are considered the significant quantities in corona measurement. 2. The voltage step pulse produced by a single discharge varies directly as the pulse coulomb charge and inversely as the test specimen capacitance and the capacitance in parallel with it. This voltage is then divided between the detector input shunt capacitance and the series-coupling capacitance. 3. The observed shape of the pulse following the very rapid step change in voltage is determined by the inductance or resistance shunting the detector input. These produce, in the case of a resistance, a nonoscillatory exponentially decaying voltage, and in the case of an inductor an oscillatory decaying voltage. 4. A wide-band amplifier is needed to indicate a major fraction of the initial pulse height if the time constant of the exponential decaying is short. This is particularly true of the nonoscillatory pulse produced by a resistance input, where conventional narrow-band amplifiers have an output crest voltage which is only a small fraction of the input pulse crest. A much greater sensitivity may be achieved with a fairly narrow bandwidth amplifier tuned to the natural oscillation frequency of the input circuit having an inductance. A high Q in this input circuit is preferred to give maximum sensitivity. 5."
"This paper describes two methods of studying corona spaces in cables between insulation and conductor. The manometric method makes it possible to determine the internal corona level unambiguously. Effects of outside electrical disturbances are excluded. There appears to be no upper voltage limit to the applicability of this test. It is performed by observing on a sensitive manometer the pressure decrease inside the cable that results from absorption of oxygen activated by corona discharge. These studies have been carried out principally with polyethylene, but also with rubber, polyvinyl chloride, silicone, Teflon, and glass. In the autographic method silver is deposited on all copper surfaces accessible to the silver cyanide solution. This clearly maps the projection of the corona spaces on the conductor. The method is extremely simple and the results are direct and conclusive."
"This is a continuation of the previously published data on the loading of sealed dry-type transformers.1 With the same representative core and coils as were used in the previous work, and the sealed tank replaced with a louvered casing, the winding temperature rises are measured for a variety of loads following several steady-state conditions. These data are converted to hottest-spot temperatures utilizing previously published hottest-spot increments and the allowable limits specified in the standards. Aging rates are those for the presently used materials in ventilated dry-type transformers. Insulation aging is computed for various overload cycles and the allowable loads determined for normal life expectancy as well as a few specified per cent loss-of-life criteria."
"This analysis may be considered as an extension of the core-loss relationships, given in reference 1, to the general case which gives exciting-current waveform relationships as well. For such purposes as special testing of 3-phase 3-leg transformer cores or developing the design of these cores, it would be desirable to have a method for determining an \"a-c loop\" for each leg of the core. In this paper the a-c loop is taken either as a curve of flux plotted against drop in mmf (magnetomotive force) or of flux density versus mmf per unit length. An a-c loop for each leg of a core may be determined by a combination of single-phase tests, but the results are not completely representative of the conditions within the core in 3-phase operation. In this paper a method is given whereby data from 3-phase tests may be utilized. First, the waveforms of the exciting currents are quantitatively described by measuring the amplitudes and phase angles of both the fundamental and harmonic terms. These measurements are taken directly using a new instrument called a \"harmonic phase comparator.\" Then, formulas are developed to convert the measured data directly into a description of the a-c loop for each of the legs. A numerical example from actual test data is given, and a convenient technique to plot the data is demonstrated."
"A scientific study is presented of the characteristic effects of direct and alternating voltage stresses on composite insulation systems designed for alternating voltage service. It shows some of the basic differences between these two kinds of stresses, deals with a few of the limitations of the direct-voltage method of testing composite insulation designed for alternating voltage service, and describes a new mechanism of ionization, probable damage, and breakdown of such insulation under these stresses. Tests were carried out on a large number of 12 different kinds of sheet insulation samples designed either to simulate rotating machine insulation or to yield pertinent information. Equipment used in these tests was specially designed and it comprised an assembly of ten pairs of circular brass electrodes and a lightproof box containing one electrode pair and a scintillation probe for ionization detection. The latter was used as a new method for studying ionization initiation, severity, location, and spread inside the samples."
"This paper describes the application to a mine hoist of a wound-rotor induction motor with low-frequency dynamic braking. The advantages of this type of drive over other mine hoist drives are discussed. Induction motor performance on low-frequency is compared with operation on normal frequency. Methods of predicting low-frequency performance are developed, calculated performance is compared with test results, and precautions to be taken in the design of a wound-rotor motor for this application are described."
"A method is given for computing self geometric-mean distance for bus conductors of complex cross section using a digital computer. This eliminates the laborious approach of computing geometricmean distance by other methods. The self inductance of the extruded integral ventilated web channel bus conductor developed by Alcoa, computed using this method, shows close agreement with experimentally determined results."
"This paper is a contribution to the knowledge of the problems arising in connection with the switching of large capacitor banks. It is possible to reduce effectively the surges of voltage and current by so-called 2-step switching, whereby suitable auxiliary resistors are inserted in the circuit during the switching operations. The analysis is centered on a study of 2-step switching in power systems where relatively long supply lines are used. With very high transmission voltages and extremely long lines in prospect for the near future, it has been considered of interest to augment the present theory on the subject with an anallysis of the switching transients when the continuous distribution of line parameters is taken into account. Existing theory usually is based on the assumption of lumped line parameters. It is shown in this paper that this assumption may be suitable for short lines, but definitely renders erroneous results in the case of long supply lines. A relatively simple yet representative circuit configuration is chosen for the analysis. This is done in order to avoid the necessity of using a high-speed digital computer for the numerical computations."
"The considerations for dealing with the reduction of noise from transformers in residential areas are discussed from the standpoint of necessity for acoustic treatment, type and design of treatment, and importance and design of vibration isolators. Quantitative data on the performance of various treatments and vibration isolators are given; and details are provided of an inexpensive wall combining high-absorption and transmission loss, and of an inexpensive short ventilating duct for providing high attenuation to transformer hum."
"Test data on impulse and 60-cycle voltage breakdown strength for compressed air with various electrode configurations are reported. The tests were made with rod-to-plane electrodes with spacings up to 8 inches and pressures to 250 psig (pounds per square inch gage). Breakdown phenomena of air insulation encountered in the development of an air insulated air-blast circuit breaker1 are reported. The methods used in locating, analyzing, and correcting the breakdown are discussed. The use of solid insulating material in conjunction with high-pressure air is discussed. Applications in barrier form, and as support members stressed in creepage, are covered briefly."
"The investigation presented in this paper describes the problem of determining the proper quantities of fuel to be supplied from several production sources to meet plant requirements in such a manner that the minimum total cost is obtained. The solution is arrived at with cognizance of several parameters which introduce discontinuities in the availability of fuel from the several sources. The investigation also provides a convenient technique for determining an optimum solution by means of a proven mathematical approach to the problem which formerly had been analyzed by an involved cut-and-try procedure that did not provide a dependable optimum solution."
"A series of experiments on chloroform and chlorobenzene of unusual purity have shown that the d-c conductance of liquid semi-insulators depends in a complicated way upon the impurities present (including air) and upon the material of the cell electrodes. Effects at the electrodes are split into ohmic, concentration, and activation polarizations, and these three parts are separated experimentally. The final conductances obtained with four different electrode metals were: chlorobenzene, 1.1 × 10-11 ohm-1-cm-1 (centimeter); chloroform, 1.0×10-11 ohm-1-cm-1. These low values were achieved in an evacuated circulating still with no pre-electrolysis; even lower conductances are possible."
"The principal results of this study are shown in Figs. 5-7. The data as presented permit a broad range of application as far as system operating voltages are concerned, since circuit kw loading is expressed in per-unit of 2.5 (kv)2, where kv is the actual operating voltage in kv at the sending-end of the transmission line. For reference, 1.0 per-unit circuit kw load for several operating voltages is shown in Table I. Approximate economic kvar transmission limits are shown in each figure as a function of circuit kw loading for several transmission distances as well as fox two different values of transformer impedance, i.e., 10 and 15%. For convenience, optimum kvars are expressed as a ratio of kw load received. Figs. 5, 6, and 7 apply to conductor sizes of 1,272-, 636-, and 266.8-MCM ACSR respectively. Also, Figs. 5(A), 6(A), and 7(A) apply to future design cases where differences in transformer kva, generator reactive capacity, and power and energy loss are evaluated. Data for existing facilities, where only energy and power demand differences are considered, are given in Figs. 5(B), 6(B), and 7(B). Indications of the normal peak-load generator power factors and receiving system load-bus voltages which correspond to the economic kvar transmission limits are also given in Figs. 5-7. It should be clear that the load-bus voltages are expressed in per cent as seen from the highvoltage sending-end bus, and reflect the actual operating turns ratio of the receiving-end step-down transformer."
"Air break power circuit breakers of the magnetic type have been used for 2,300-and 4,160-volt service for almost the last 20 years. These breakers have been built in interrupting ratings from 50 to 250 mva (megavolt-amperes). Within the last 2 years a need has been established for breakers of higher interrupting and continuous current-carrying capacity. The need is attributable to the larger sized transformers used for distribution substations and for auxiliary power for modern generating stations. These require continuous current ratings up to 3,000 amperes and interrupting ratings up to 350 mva. The breakers and switchgear described in this paper were developed to meet this requirement. Because of industry interest in the basis of rating power circuit breakers, design tests were made to demonstrate that these breakers would meet the 350-mva interrupting rating on a symmetrical basis and with a 5-cycle interrupting time rating."
"The formation of a joint AIEE-ASME committee for the purpose of preparing a recommended specification covering the speed-governing of prime movers intended to drive electric generators that may, if desired, be included in prime-mover purchase specifications, was approved by the AIEE Board of Directors on January 30, 1941 and by the ASME Council on June 15, 1941. The personnel of this Joint Committee was appointed jointly by the chairmen of the AIEE Power Generation Committee and the ASME Standing Committee on Power Test Codes under sponsorship of the ASME Power Division. The work of the joint committee resulted in the issuance in 1949 of a recommended specification covering speed-governing of steam turbines intended to drive electric generators rated 500 kw and up.1 The joint committee was reorganized in 1955 and instructed to prepare a revision of the recommended specification. This revision, like the original, is limited in its scope to steam turbine-generators rated 500 kw and larger. Specifications for other types of prime movers will be issued, upon completion, as separate publications. This recommended specification does not cover emergency governors or other overspeed control devices, and in general, devices which are not responsive to speed. Exceptions to the latter were made for turbines designed to operate with controlled steam pressures, as in the case of turbines with initial and/or exhaust steam pressure control, automatic-extraction and mixed-pressure turbines, since the performance of the speed-governing system is affected by the performance of the steam pressure-regulating system."
"In this paper the power losses are studied for an electrical utility. The power and reactive volt-amperes may be specified at the loads. If so, either the voltage or the current vector at the load is also specified. A similar set of specifications may be made for certain of the generator inputs to the electric network. In addition, voltage current vector inputs may be established at other generator nodes. It is presumed that the foregoing restrictions do not preclude the possibility of varying either the voltage or the current vector at several other generator locations. It should be noted that the electric network is assumed to be passive and, if desired, may be grounded at one or more points in addition to those ground connections assumed at the loads and generators. With these restrictions established and the remaining free or manipulative generator voltage or current vectors chosen, loss minimization may be studied. First, the electric network is considered by itself. The necessary and sufficient conditions to be met with the manipulative variables in order to minimize the losses in the electrical network are established. Second, the generator station losses are considered in conjunction with the electric network. This time, the necessary conditions, and also a set of sufficient conditions, are established for the same manipulative variables in order that the over-all loss be minimized. In the latter approach, allowance is made for the fact that the cost per kilowatt-hours is not the same at each station and in the network."
"As the size of power station units has increased, it has become economical to raise the voltage on auxiliary systems to 4,160 volts. Almost universally, 2,400-volt systems have been operated ungrounded. With the higher voltage, the question again arises whether the system should be grounded and if so, whether there should be neutral impedance. It is apropos then to enumerate the advantages and disadvantages of each mode of operation and then select the one that appears most justified for power station auxiliary supply. An exact answer cannot be expected; the probabilities can be weighed and the best possible decision made. To simplify the study, the question is divided into two parts: a comparison between grounded and ungrounded systems, and a discussion as to what mode of grounding is best suited to the problem. For the sake of completeness, a discussion of resistor rating and the type and performance of ground relays is included."
"1. There are differences among the lightning current data obtained by various investigators. These differences appear to be a function of the height and the terminating ground impedance of the structure on which the measurements were made. 2. There is agreement among the data obtained by magnetic links when the results were obtained from direct readings on tower or diverter rods or by the summation of readings made at each end of the ground wire of a stricken span. 3. Comparison of data obtained at sea level or at a high altitude (14,000 feet) based on measurements made of strokes to tower rods or ground wires as in conclusion 2, show no appreciable difference due to altitude. This appears to be contrary to the previously drawn conclusion based on a comparison of the high-altitude diverterrod data to sea-level lightning-current data based on the summation of tower currents. 4. There is disagreement among the lightning current magnitudes obtained as in conclusion 2 and those obtained by the summation of tower currents. 5. Lightning stroke data measured at the ESB are in disagreement with those obtained as in conclusion 2 by a factor of about two to one, particularly at the higher currents. 6. Examination of oscillograms obtained at the ESB show variations in the current wave shape that may be attributed to reflections occurring from the base of the building and other reflection zones around Manhattan Island. Thus, there are indications that the lightning stroke is not a constant current source."
"Several nuclear reactor projects in the United States have incorporated a token production of electric power such as the Experimental Breeder Reactor I and the Borax III and IV Reactors located in Arco, Idaho, and the SIR reactor prototype at the Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory. These projects, however, were undertaken for the purpose of reactor development, and the application to electric power generation was rather incidental and the amount of power generated was small. The EBWR project was designed from the beginning as a central-station type of plant and was the first of several concurrent projects of similar purpose to start operation. The experimental nature of the plant and the fact that it has a forerunner influenced engineering design. A number of more or less expensive safety precautions were incorporated to cover foreseeable hazardous situations which could possibly take place and to provide a reasonable margin of safety to cover unpredictable contingencies. Undoubtedly operating experience and continued development work will prove that some of these precautions are not warranted. The investment cost of such a plant would be correspondingly reduced."
"The South Bend division of the Indiana & Michigan Electric Company (I&ME) is served by a 27.6-kv subtransmission system and is the only area in the entire American Gas and Electric Company (AGE) system operating at this voltage. Realizing that future conversion of this area to 33-kv operation, standard throughout the remainder of I&ME, would be desirable, all new transformers have been purchased in the past 10 years with taps suitable for both 27.6 and 33 kv. In this way gradual replacement of transformers would result eventually in a system which, with only minor equipment modifications and changes, could be converted readily to the higher voltage. A review of this approach recently was undertaken in an attempt to determine if immediate conversion could not be justified. As part of this investigation, an economic study was made. Monetary benefits anticipated from operation at the higher voltage were compared, by a present-worth evaluation, with the investment necessary for conversion, and the project was found to be economically sound. On the basis of this over-all review, it was decided to proceed immediately with complete conversion."
"The orthomagnetic current transformer provides a means of current measurement with an inherent accuracy beyond the calibration of transfer standards. Correction of readings is eliminated over a primary current range of approximately 60 to 1 on normal metering burdens without adjustment of compensation. This wide current range may be metered without recourse to high-voltage heavy-current primary switches. With the exception of the 180-cycle excitation, these transformers are complete with simplified compensation in a single tank."
"The effects of dose and dose rate of electron irradiation have been investigated on the electrical and thermal properties of \"Mylar.\" Rate of irradiation as well as the length of postirradiation time markedly influence the magnitude of the observed changes. A transient surface effect reflecting upon the measured dielectric constant has been observed."
"Index of technical subjects and participants in discussions."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A remote control system for tv receivers is described which employs ultrasound in the vicinity of 40 kc. Slowly decaying single-frequency signals are produced by striking aluminum rods with a hammer. The receiver employs limiting followed by frequency selection and integration to discriminate against acoustic interference."
"There are several ways to determine the optical performance of a cathode-ray tube assembly. Among the most well known are the resolution chart and the microscopic measurements of a single stationary spot. Although these methods have their advantages, they are lacking in some respects which are valuable to the designer and producer of television receivers. The limiting resolution test does not provide an adequate measure of performance, while the single spot measurement fails to take into account the effects of scanning. Neither method deals directly with the most significant measurement in regard to performance, this being the detail contrast reproduced for representative modulating frequencies."
"Spracklen and Stroh have presented intriguing possibilities for tv receiver circuits, and their Fig. 8 illustrates how the job could be done using two dual-control pentodes. However, work was not stopped at this point but full advantage of some additional possibilities was taken, and the result is a new tube family, the 6/4/3BU8. Except for the heater rating these tubes are identical."
"The important performance characteristics of transistors as amplifiers at vhf are matched power gain, noise factor, roll-off characteristic, and terminal impedances. The matched power gain represents power gain occurring when both the input and output impedances of the transistor are conjugately matched. The noise factor of a transistor amplifier is measured with conjugate matching from a noise diode to the final load. The power gain roll-off is the matched power gain as a function of frequency. It allows power gain prediction over a wide-frequency band from a single-frequency measurement. Terminal impedances refer to the input and output impedance of a transistor. Each terminal impedance is measured with the other conjugately matched."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A new simple and rugged television antenna has been developed for vhf high channels. The antenna utilizes pairs of slot radiators cut longitudinally in a vertical pipe. In each pair the slots are fed in opposite phase, and the pairs are displaced one-quarter wavelength from each other along the pole. Every other pair is in one vertical plane and the remaining pairs in another perpendicular to this. The slots are fed with a traveling wave within the pole."
"This paper discusses some of the tv tuner design problems experienced by the author during the product design of tuners used in DuMont Telesets. The subjects discussed are: oscillator radiation, spurious responses, provision for uhf reception, and a typical vhf wafer switch tuner design."
"Most conventional television tuners exhibit undesirable variations of input impedance at different frequencies within the pass bands and with varying bias voltages applied to the rf amplifier tube. An analysis of the input characteristics of such tuners and commercial television antenna systems, including transmission lines, shows the formation of selective mismatch under certain conditions which may form ``holes'' within the pass band of any television channel. Such holes degrade the picture quality, particularly for color reception when a deep hole falls upon the color subcarrier. One solution to this problem is presented in this paper, using a constant input-impedance rf amplifier which consists of two stages of grounded-grid triodes in cascade with agc voltage being applied to the grid of the second stage. Other performance characteristics of this amplifier, such as noise factor, gain, overloading capability, cross modulation, etc., as compared to those of a conventional cascode rf amplifier, also are described."
"In order to present a feature tv program during the favored hours in both the eastern and western parts of the U.S., some form of three-hour ``storage'' is necessary. Production costs and performer fatigue preclude repeating the live show. For about eight years, monochrome shows have been recorded on film for this purpose, and for later rebroadcast and record purposes."
"In addition to the conventional problems of sensitivity, bandwidth, and transient response, the transistor poses several new problems in television IF design due to its power gain mechanism. In particular, the resistive and capacitive components of output impedance dictate that matched power gain can be obtained only at or below matched bandwidth, and definite limits are thereby imposed on the loaded Q of each stage. Data are presented for high-frequency graded base transistors and high-frequency tetrode transistors. The over-all performance of a five-stage video IF is discussed in terms of: 1) single stage data, 2) stability requirements, 3) method of achieving agc, 4) agc and overload characteristics, 5) pole pattern, gain, and transient response, and 6) noise figure."
"When an NTSC color signal transmission is detected by an envelope type of second detector, several distortion components can be produced. In saturated color areas the detected luminance signal may be lower than the intended level, and additionally a 920-kc color-sound beatnote may result."
"Static methods of testing horizontal deflection tubes have become inadequate and are being replaced by more significant methods of dynamic testing. This paper presents the problems encountered in arriving at a suitable dynamic test. It suggests a desirable test method to drive the horizontal deflection tube with a square-wave signal, thus permitting the measurement of such parameters as peak currents, Ib-to-Ic2 ratio, and the voltage at the knee of the plate characteristic."
"Currently available power transistors are capable of driving the deflection coils of large screen television sets without impedance transformation. Direct-coupled, single-ended deflection amplifiers, and problems and their solutions relative to decentering due to dc yoke current components, are discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"It is a matter of record that the visibility of co-channel interference has maxima and minima at carrier offset frequencies which are a multiple of frame frequency. Subjective tests were made in the laboratory to determine the possible reduction in the visibility of co-channel interference by precise carrier frequency control and the stability requirements on the carrier frequency. The tests show an improvement of 12 db in the tolerable ratio of desired carrier to undesired carrier for an offset of 10,010 cycles and 18 db for an offset of 20,020 cycles; and that an offset frequency stability of plus or minus five cycles would be adequate. The above offset frequencies are the optimum offsets for a frame frequency of 29.97 cycles; they are even multiples (334 and 668) of frame frequency. For transmissions using a frame frequency of 30 cycles the optimum offsets are 10,020 cycles and 20,040 cycles. The stability requirements on the offset frequencies impose a relative stability on the picture carriers of plus or minus one part per hundred million for the VHF channels."
"A device will be described which reduces ``burn-in'' on an image orthicon tube by as much as 90 per cent. The device is relatively simple and consists of a mechanism to oscillate slowly the lens board of a television camera at a very slow rate. Electrical cancellation of the resulting horizontal motion is accomplished by simple modification to the horizontal centering circuit of the camera. This device should allow a television station to get much longer life out of certain I. O. tubes and, just as important, to eliminate objectionable burn-in to the television viewer."
"The Mobile Television Monitoring Unit operated by the Federal Communications Commission at the present time is being used as an instrument of co-operative enforcement. Discrepancies are called to the attention of the station's technical people, working with them in a positive effort to improve the situation with the mutual goal of providing better TV service for the general public. TV station inspection is combined with technical monitoring observations and cooperative corrective action has usually been taken when discrepancies have been noted."
"It is proposed that the present definition of television service in terms of iso-probability contours be abandoned. A new definition of service area, first proposed by Norton and Gainen in 1950, is recommended in its place. This provides a much more useful measure of service and makes the estimating techniques more tractable."
"A sawtooth wave contains all harmonics, and a single oscilloscope picture shows three things about an audio amplifier; flatness of frequency response, transient stability, overload."
"This paper presents a simple method for using the visual carrier of a television broadcast station for the purposes of transmitting both the aural and visual signals. The method is intended for use during emergency operation when the sound portion of the TV transmitter is ``off the air'' and the visual portion of the transmitter is in working order. This system is not recommended as a substitute for a standby transmitter. While various methods of transmitting the sound on the picture carrier are known, a simple and economical method of multiplexing is desirable for a TV broadcasting station. Consideration was given to a system which would require no adjustment of the main visual transmitter should the normal sound transmitter fail. The signal to noise ratio of the multiplexing system to be described is not as favorable as the conventional method of transmission."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"An automatic programming device depends on automatic gain control in typical TV applications. An ``All-Electronic'' A.G.C. with sufficient operational range for use as an integral part of a monochrome vidicon film center is described and compared to other gain control methods."
"The significant problems encountered in the engineering development of a klystron amplifier system for 6000 megacycle microwave television relays are discussed and the final results and limitations of the system are set forth. All data submitted herewith is on the basis of laboratory results."
"A few years ago, commercial television made its appearance as a dominant economic and cultural force on the American scene. At about the same time, tape recorders emerged as the unparalleled mediun for the reproduction of sound. Commencing with this loosely defined milestone, engineers, production people, station owners, and sponsors looked forward to the use of tape for the recording of television programs."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Image orthicons and vidicons have been improved substantially to fulfill requirements for better TV broadcasting. The advantages of ``micromesh'' and ``super-dynodes'' are explained and the performance characteristics of a new image orthicon with very high photocathode sensitivity described. Recommendations concerning studio practices to obtain best black-and-white and color pictures are presented."
"A high-efficiency all-transistor regulated power supply for 280 volts and 1.5 amperes is compared with conventional supplies using vacuum tubes. Test results show good characteristics for video use with size and weight reduced by a factor of two."
"A stacked arrangement of two UHF five-bay helical antennas is used to provide an antenna system with a power capacity of 120 KW and a power gain of 50. A power gain of 100 is achieved in the maximum direction with horizontal directivity."
"In television cameras employing image orthicon tubes, the problem of picture sticking or image retentivity often limits the effective life of these tubes. Methods are discussed which minimize this problem by slowly rotating the image on the tube in a small circular orbit by either optical or electronic means for color or monochrome cameras."
"Present day broadcast program practices have brought about more complex operational requirements with the result that less effort can be devoted by the operator to maintaining a desirable constant audio level."
"The Television Allocations Study Organization was established, at the request of the Federal Communications Commission, by five of the major associations in the television industry. The objective of TASO is to make a thorough study of the engineering factors affecting the allocation of channels for television broadcasting. To carry out this task, six engineering panels have been formed. Each is working on a specific phase of the overall problem -- (1) transmitting equipment, (2) receiving equipment, (3) field tests, (4) wave propagation, (5) analysis and theory, and (6) levels of television picture quality. A total of 174 engineers from 92 organizations from all branches of the television industry are serving on TASO panels. The work of the panels is progressing rapidly and it is expected that significant results in the form of reports for the use of the FCC and the television industry will be forthcoming by the middle of next year."
"The responses to a mail survey of 2735 broadcast and television stations were analyzed to determine the extent to which tape recording is presently used in routine broadcasting."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Overviews current society and chapter news and events."
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Overviews current society and chapter news and events."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"One of the problems facing the designer of modern electronic communication systems is the ultimate reliability to be achieved under service conditions. The required level of reliability together with the unavoidable complexity of present-day equipment calls for components having extremely low failure rates. Evaluation of the failure rates of such magnitude in the laboratory or pilot plant is practically impossible within a reasonable length of time and with a reasonable number of components. One way to meet this problem is the artificial reduction of the time to failure. This reduction of time or, in other words, the acceleration of life must be realistic to be of any value, which presents many problems in actual life testing. In recent years several papers have been published concerning statistical methods applied to life tests showing an exponential distribution of time to failure. These methods have been used as the basis for the design of an experiment to explore the acceleration obtainable in testing capacitors of recent design. Some results of this experiment estimating acceleration factors corresponding to increases in applied voltages and ambient temperatures are presented."
"The topology of switching elements is explored from a probability or reliability standpoint. Arrays are indicated which offer a greater degree of reliability than any one of their elements, hence disproving the belief that circuit complexity necessarily lessens reliability. A further result is production of a simple mathematical technique adaptable to the solution of complex circuits in terms of reliability. Such ``circuits'' may actually consist of redundant communication paths as a more general interpretation of switching elements."
"Failures in electronic equipment can cost time, effort, supplies, money and even lives. Most reliability programs concentrate almost exclusively upon failure prevention; their main interest seems to be in developing failure resistant components and equipment. However, to assume that such an approach can eliminate all possibility of failure is unrealistic. It is much more practical to view the tendency to failure as ever-present and to place more emphasis upon control of failures and their effects (a concept including but not limited to prevention). There is, a close analogy between the nondnamic approach to reliability and the ``Maginot Line'' type of military strategy, and between the dynamic failure control approach advocated here and the modern ``Atomic War'' type of strategy. The notorious ``game'' of Russian Roulette is used as an example, purposely far removed from electronics, of the dynamic approach to failure control and of the importance to dynamic failure control of thorough systems analysis."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The purpose of evaluating transistor life data is to make possible proper application, specification and design of transistors. There are many methods of testing and analyzing life characteristics. These methods are reviewed and discussed here from the standpoint of the user, with emphasis on a particular statistical approach. Components are iritially evaluated at different temperatures to determine such general characteristics as current gain and leakage currents in the collector and emittor cutoff region. Samples are also submitted to mechanical and environmental tests. Life tests are conducted at various temperature and power levels. As a control feature, shelf life tests are usually performed simultaneously. Data collected from life tests are recorded on punched cards. Each card contains all the data for a given transistor at a particular time during the life test. This information is used as the input for an electronic calculator by means of which statistical summaries can be computed. The use of calculators accelerates the evaluation period and therefore allows more data to be analyzed efficiently. This method permits either individual or group. evaluation procedures. The results are presented on curves and charts."
"The calculation of the reliability of a device may be a complex problem. It is khe purpose of this article to explain a widely applicable method of measuring reliability. Although the common experience of the authors is solely in the field of electronic and electromechanical devices, and although this article deals with such devices as models, much of the information contained herein could be applied to a completely mechanical system. The complexity of the problem in the ordinary electronic device leads one to seek a simplification. This division of the general problem is presented here along with the definitions and mathematics necessary to arrive at a numerical expression of the reliability. The method employed has faults as well as attributes, and both will be discussed."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A system reliability program is an operational procedure for obtaining the over-all reliability objectives in the development of a system. The reliability program must be closely integrated with the system developmental activities to assure that the over-all program objectives are fully obtained within the required time scale. The analytical objectives of the system reliability program are twofold. First, the specified system reliability requirements must be apportioned to the subsystems and components to assure adequate equipment design. Second, as component and subsystem design data are made available throughout the development program, this information must be utilized in predicting the System reliability. In predicting system reliability, it is necessary to determine both the component reliability relationships and the individual component failure probabilities. Several statistical methods for determining component reliability are presented; however, the exact methodology must be tailored to the specific system and development program. System reliability can be predicted by utilizing component reliability data together with an adequate analysis of component and subsystem reliability relationships."
"A statistical technique is presented by means of which the reliabilities of two types of component (or equipment) may be compared, and a decision made in favor of one type or the other. The technique differs from those previously devised for this purpose in that the assumptions on which it is based are less restrictive and thus more likely to be satisfied in practice."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Perhaps the most universally applied components are in the field of electronics, and especially in the field of electron tubes. The electron tube may be standardized in about the same degree as an automobile tire or butter, but it is often expected to serve a multitude of diverse usages, so that it is expected to be a universal component. The fact that its usages are diverse is not readily visible, since the diversity does not appear in mechanical form. It is quite apparent, however, to those dealing with tube applications that the electrical diversity is great indeed. The requirements for use as a blocking oscillator, for example, have no close relationship to the requirements for use as a DC amplifier. No common standards exist between these two usages, and, as a matter of fact, if we attempted to write standards we would be unable to write a single set, since the parameters to be used in describing one usage would have no relationship to the parameters for the other. We would need two sets of standards, just as we would need two distinct and separate sets for butter as a food and butter as a lubricant. Tubes are often required to meet not just two sets of standards, but sometimes as many as a dozen sets of unrelated standards. The significance of this situation is analyzed and discussed in some detail."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"A weapons system provides for, and includes, all elements required to perform a desired mission. The scope of a weapons system begins at the conception of an idea and ends with the successful use of the weapon in the field. A wide variety of weapons systems are concurrently in process at Martin. To manage these projects, a somewhat unique organizational structure has been developed. In fact, it is two organizational structures existing at the same time with much the same personnel. One structure provides the climate necessary for a superior job, the training programs for personnel development, facilities, and technical staff assistance. The other structure establishes project objectives and provides project planning and control."
"The paper attempts to give a general appraisal of the significance and trend of Operations Research as a managerial instrument of advice. The paper also indicates how this field has gradually grown in scope and includes an analysis and appraisal of the various methods employed, their scientific importance, suggestions for their assimilation to other fields, and a discussion on the possible application of Information Theory to Operations Research."
"As pointed out in the opening paragraph of the paper, the Inventory Problem, one of the mathematical tools of Operations Research, is discussed and its application illustrated by an application to a production and sales problem. A solution of an Inventory Problem yields quantitative data on which decisions can be taken with a view to minimizing risks and maximizing profits."
"The comprehensive analysis of the information supplied by an adequate cost accounting system can reduce the guesswork of managerial decisions to a minimum. Your accounting system should be designed not only as an instrument to determine historical cost, but as a tool to give you financial information that will project your future operation under varying conditions. Standard costs and predetermined budgets can offer management an opportunity to study efficiency from automatically prepared reports. Study of variable, semivariable, and fixed costs can predict the future and offer such information as price concessions that may be extended. Use your accounting tools and take the guesswork out of otherwise difficult decisions."
"The performance of engineers is closely related to their motivation. Some techniques of administration that encourage individual engineers to identify themselves with their jobs and to feel a responsibility for accomplishing the objectives of management will be discussed."
"The future security of this nation requires continued technological superiority in weapons and weapons systems. To maintain this technical lead in the face of our already inadequate supply of scientists and engineers is a matter of grave concern. The outlook for increasing the supply of technical graduates to meet these demands over the next decade is not good. It is essential, therefore, that we utilize our valuable engineering resources with maximum efficiency. Certain aspects of military program management are resulting in waste of engineering resources. Among these are the requirement for multiple technical proposals prior to selection of a developmental contractor, requirements for unnecessary engineering records, failure to make continued use of trained engineering teams in specialized design areas, and duplication of engineering effort by a prime weapon-system contractor and his subcontractors. It also appears that existing military procurement policies and procedures are tending to create a philosophy of ``mass engineering'' which is not only wasteful of technical resources, but is having an adverse effect upon the morale of engineers and the engineering profession."
"Is it realistic for engineers to expect the same rigid honesty of performance from people that they do from machines? The engineer's effectiveness in a business society may be directly proportional to his ability to differentiate between human and machine performance. Logic does not always play the leading role in dictating human behavior. The engineer's growing responsibility to society as a whole demands that he recognize these things. By such action he can markedly improve his own effectiveness."
"It is pretty generally realized that our country faces a serious scientific and engineering manpower shortage. We have at present about half the engineers which we need, and each year we are graduating only about half of our annual needs. The factors effecting this shortage, our abilities to overcome it, and the time required for this, however, are not well understood. First and foremost it must be realized that this is a long-range shortage for which a significant increase cannot be made within the next five to ten-year period. This means that the immediate solution to the problem can come only through a more efficient utilization of existing manpower supply. This shortage is not due to a lack of raw materials. If only the male youths of the country are considered, the supply of competent young students to our technical colleges could be quadrupled, and if more women could be assimilated properly into our engineering system, the supply might be increased ten-fold. The small percentage of competent youth that is attracted to scientific education constitutes the most important problem which we face. This is due in part to a general lack of understanding on the part of the general public of science itself, of its increasing importance to society, and to the general nature of the opportunities which it affords as a career. Our high schools, technical universities, industry, and the government have a grave common responsibility to set up an adequate program of mutual cooperation for solving this problem."
"Some methods of freeing engineers from routine activities so that they have more time for creative engineering are discussed. The use of technicians at a particular plant location is described. Engineering clerical aids are spoken of. The ways in which adequate laboratory tools and facilities can help are discussed. Mechanical computing and design schemes are mentioned in their relationship to better utilization of creative engineering talent."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"In today's competitive labor market, it is not always a simple task to obtain research and development personnel. The engineering graduates from our colleges and universities are not sufficient to meet the staggering demands of American industry today. Providing the most competition to the smaller research laboratories for urgently needed scientific manpower are large industrial and governmental organizations. Even so, if both salary and working conditions are favorable, personnel can be procured for these smaller organizations. This presentation discussed these important factors in developing a research and development program: 1) What areas of research and development do you wish to follow, 2) what kinds of research and development workers should you employ, and 3) where should you get your manpower?"
"What you do with your engineering personnel after you get it is extremely important. Failure to understand management's responsibility in handling engineering personnel will result in a poor investment in the cost of selecting and subsequent training of such people. A realistic understanding of how not only to attract but hold your engineering personnel will pay dividends; you will hold the men you have so carefully chosen because certain basic needs have been met. It is significant to note that this is not only a problem which faces the large industrial laboratories, but is also true of the small laboratories which at the present time are employing professional engineering people in large numbers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"The purpose of this paper is to illustrate the responsibilities of product engineering and design in evolving printed wire products. The short cuts are the results of planning with maximum standardization. The products to be used for illustration are 23 servo-amplifier designs used in military airborne equipment. The quantity of amplifiers to be produced is not large and might be classified as a short-run type production. Printed wiring was decided upon on the basis of reduced unit cost and consistency of amplifier performance. It is important to point out that the products mentioned are part of a large system within a large company. Many of the principles illustrated herein are necessary because of the great coordination a large program requires. A standards department in a large organization determines standard practices, examples of which relative to printed wiring are: 1. Acceptable materials available for printed wiring boards and their properties. 2. Minimum requirements for printed wiring widths and spacing. 3. Types of electrical connections recommended (eg. eyelets, plated holes, and terminals). 4. Minimum component spacing and standard component lead spacing based upon insertion equipment used in the shop. The 25 mil grid coordinate system was adopted based upon studies made by, the RETMA committees and the close packaging requirements generally encountered in Military equipment. The product engineer's responsibility is to design and test units for production use utilizing information from the standards department."
"This paper points out the relationship between human engineering, design approach, and engineering management. Application of electronic packaging with printed circuit design is discussed and several slides illustrating finished units are shown. A modern design approach is explained, both from management's standpoint and the design engineer's point of view. Design procedure is discussed and the various functions and responsibilities of a design group are out-lined."
"This paper discusses the basic concept of utilizing functional circuits and packaging them into modular end products. As the modular philosophy has advanced, the size of the modular assembly itself has decreased. Several different modes of encapsulation are discussed. Encapsulation by casting is presented. Trimming operations on the cast module are discussed. Encapsulation by pressure molding is compared to casting methods. It is shown that many of the disadvantages of the individual methods can be eliminated by the combination of these two encapsulation methods."
"At the 1955 IRE National Convention, the author delivered a paper entitled ``Guided Missile Reliability and Electronic Production Techniques''. A general description was given of several contemporary concepts of automation-for-electronics. The present paper is a sequel to the previous report. An attempt is made to view objectively the various improved concepts and their advancing techniques, and to evaluate them in terms of present trends for their use. Three needed basic improvements for automatic electronic assembly machines are outlined, and a prediction is made that the early incorporation of these improvements will rapidly advance the acceptance and application of automation-for-electronics."
"This paper describes the manufacture of the major sub-assemblies for the general purpose wire spring relay. Their mass production to close tolerances and at low cost has required the development of entirely new and different machines and techniques. Several machines of the type discussed are already in operation and more are under construction to satisfy the ever-increasing demand for these excellent relays. The combination of such widely different kinds of processes into integrated machine units is a great step forward in the march toward the automatic factory so widely acclaimed in these modern times. Knowledge gained during this development has already been used by Western Electric in planning the manufacture of future communication apparatus and in lowering the cost of present Bell System products. It will doubtless be recognized that automatic facilities of the type described require a major capital investment, the justification for which must depend upon a large and continuing demand as well as a stable product design."
"The techniques of automation have been experiencing a rapid expansion in the past few years. It became apparent that standards should be arrived at to prevent chaos in this relatively new means of production. In August of l954, the Radio Electronics Television Manufacturing Association organized a committee to propose standards in this field of automation. The great interest shown, by industry in general, indicated the urgent need for this type of action. The progress, observations, and results of this standardization activity will be described and outlined in detail."
"Progress in the mechanization of production testing of electronic products is reviewed. Several test equipments are described and evaluated. The necessity for considering the quality monitoring function of production as a continous and integrated system is emphasized. This approach enables the test process planner to utilize the powerful tools of operations research in determining the nature of the test equipment and procedures required for optimum operation. A test system for the automatic factory is described. This system calls for the more efficient use of statistical sampling techniques as well as the more efficient feedback of test data. Within the framework of this system, new requirements on test equipment have been developed. The activities of an industrywide RETMA Task Group on Standards for Product Testing in Mechanized Production is described."
"The trend today is the use of electronic variable speed drives in applications which normally would have been filled by rotating conversion units. Physically, electronic drives have a space and weight advantage over rotating equipment. Electrically, they lend themselves to precise control and rapid response to error signals. Small drives using thyratrons to supply and control d-c. motors are quite common. Large Ignitron and Excitron drives have been in successful use for many years. An electronic drive, the Xatron, using a grid controlled rectifier has been marketed in the 30 to 100 horsepower range. It is believed that this drive will capture the mass market for packaged drives within five to ten years. Chief use will be in the machine tool industry and for process control. Many varieties of electric variable-speed drives have been built and used in the past seventy-five years. The common feature in most of them has been the prime mover itself, the d-c. motor. Compared to the induction motor, the d-c. motor is an expensive device to produce, chiefly due to necessity for a commutator and brushes. In spite of this factor the d-c. motor today remains the foundation upon which the commercial wide range variable speed drive is based. Today between 80 and 90% of the electric drives built consist of a motor driven d-c. generator providing a variable armature voltage for a d-c. motor. Until 10 years ago an additional d-c. generator was used to supply excitation for the motor field."
"The optimum automatic process control system requires a continuous flow of information relating to the process variations. Radiation gauges utilizing absorption or scattering of radiation produced by a radioisotope source as a means of measuring thickness, weight per unit area, or density of a product offer a means for obtaining this information. Process control utilizing these gauges differs from the usual control system in that large delays exist between the measuring point and the control point. The existence of such delays requires the use of specialized control systems, usually utilizing interrupted control. A typical control system of this type is described and the safety precautions required to prevent malfunction or damage are discussed."
"Rapidly rising steam temperatures and pressures in addition to new design techniques have vastly increased both the quantity and quality of x-ray and ultrasonic testing required. Consequently, the development pressure, particularly in ultrasonics, which in its modern form is of postwar birth, has been heavy. Some of the techniques, equipment and circuitry of present day inspection are described and the characteristics and operation of ultrasonic transducers noted. Sodium iodide, the linear accelerator, and industrial television have brought the promise of mechanization to the examination of large castings, while the promulgation of acceptance standards and the use of ABC scan representation and recording gives equal promise of speeding up the inspection and quality control of forgings. Preliminary experiments and electronic design work towards these objectives are described. An interesting development is the use of ultrasonics in nozzle-area determination, wallthickness measurements on large castings, and liquid-level indication. Possibilities exist for automatic control of machining operations and liquid-level control. Distances and cross sections can be checked with accuracies of 0.1%. As a control device, the feedback nature of the system will tend to suppress dependence on machine or template accuracies."
"Nearly every problem encountered in engineering at some time proceeds from the qualitative to the quantitative phase where the results of mathematical analysis must be applied in actual computation. Most often the computation is short enough that automatic means are not necessary. However, more and more problems are requiring powerful aids to calculation. This increase is due as much to expanded thinking encouraged by the mere availability of computers as to any actual backlog of work. Therefore it is to the engineer's advantage to know what computers can do for him, even though he may take his problem to someone else for final preparation and programming. The following text presents some examples in which automatic calculation is being used. The logic, used in choosing the computing methods is shown based on the characteristics of problem and computer. As background for the examples the most important of these characteristics are presented briefly in the next section."
"Manufacturing operations with poor scheduling plans are headed for trouble. Load capacity analysis is a technique for measuring the feasibility and desirability of proposed scheduling plans. Simply stated mathematically, load capacity analysis consists of a series of multiplications and additions. However, the numerous computations in a typical probem usually take more time than can be allowed. The paper describes a special purpose analog computer specifically designed to solve this problem in a matter of minutes."
"A tank farm data reduction system has been developed for the new Tidewater Oil Company installation in Delaware by the Armour Research Foundation and Panellit, Inc. The function of the unit is to secure the temperature corrected volume of fluid in each of the approximately 100 tanks in the field. The inputs to the system are the fluid height and average tank temperature. Fluid volume is tabulated digitally as a function of the height on magnetic tape. The system automatically searches the tape for the indicated volume and multiplies the number by the temperature correction factor. This paper describes the operation of the multiplier, the tape search elements, and the sensing instruments employed in the field. The factors governing the selection of the specific elements in the storage and computing system are also discussed."
"The author re-examines the subject to re-orient thinking along constructive lines which will utilize the concept as we use the many other valuable tools in our industrial storeroom. The mechanization involved in the production of printed boards is discussed. The requirements for numbers and training of people are increased rather than decreased, as outlined by the author."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Xeroradiography is a new approach to the problem of producing an X-ray image in a minimm period of time, in full daylight and for immediate, interpretation. For the past several years, it has been undergoing development and field trials. Associated apparatus is the result of the efforts of the Haloid Company of Rochester, New York, Battell Memorial Institute of Columbus, Ohio, in cooperation with the General Electric Company., X-Ray Department, of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA. Before entering into a discussion of the xeroradiographic process as used in both medical and industrial applications, a brief review of the physical and electrical properties entering into its use is provided."
"The role of electronics for diagnostic and therapeutic use in heart surgery at lowered body temperature (hypothermia) is discussed. The current trend of lowered-temperature anesthesia offers distinct advantages to the cardiovascular surgeon in reducing anesthetic shock and extending tolerance to interrupted oxygenated blood circulation. However, lowered body temperatures impose critical demands on monitoring instruments and on equipment for countering ventricular fibrillation or cardiac arrest. A cardiac resuscitation unit has been designed and built for diagnostic and treatment use in the operating room. The equipment includes an electrocardiograph with both cathode-ray and pen-recorder displays, a heart-rate meter, pacemaker stimulator, defibrillator, thermistor thermometer, blood-pressure monitor and oxygen resuscitator. The application of other electronic techniques in cardiovascular surgery is outlined briefly."
"This paper describes the theoretical aspects of the work done in an Air Force research program on the analysis of electroencephalographic waveforms (brain waves). An analytical characterization of an electroencephalographic (eeg) time series is presented and a neurophysiological model is discussed for relating eeg waveshape to the response of neural populations. The mathematical theory is based on a statistical representation of the eeg signal. A system of signal analysis which may be implemented by measuring the location of zeros, extremals and points of inflection results from treating the individual rectified sections of the eeg signal as statistical distributions."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Phonocardiography originated in an attempt to time the occurrence of heart sounds in the cardiac cycle in relation to the mechanical activity of the heart, as recorded in the apex beat or in arterial pulsations. The method evolved from an era when the observer manually inserted a signal in a pulse tracing at the time he heard the sounds. Later, this was done by mechanical synchronous record, then by an electric signal produced by a telephone pickup which stimulated a frog muscle to contract, then by direct recording through a capillary electrometer, or string galvanometer, and finally by electron tube amplification. Low-inertia capsule and mirror with photographic recording were also used, as well as other ingenious variations. Present day phonocardiography has developed mainly through improved instrumentation with low-noise level amplifiers and satisfactory filters. Spectral phonocardiography is the most important advance. The value of phonocardiography in clinical work lies in its ability to record for objective analysis the transient sounds and murmurs to which the hearing mechanism of different observers adds or subtracts subjective variants. It has been most useful in timing and explaining heart sounds having abnormal components-split sounds, atrial sounds, opening snaps, and gallop rhythms. It is also valuable in the study of certain murmurs, particularly in mitral disease and congenital heart disease. It has contributed to teaching and has been a useful diagnostic aid prior to cardiac surgery."
"Our knowledge of the cause of sounds arising in the heart has depended on indirect evidence of events of the cardiac cycle in man and direct observations made in other animals. The accessibility of the human heart for study in this era of cardiac surgery now permits the direct observation made in animals to be repeated in man and the indirect correlations to be confirmed."
"A new approach to the analysis of heart sounds and murmurs has been developed. These acoustic phenomena are considered to be generated by a series of transient sounds which because of the long persistence of the low-frequency components of the sounds, tend ordinarily to fuse into a single sound. The separate events such as valve closures which produce discrete clicks, therefore tend to fuse, and time discrimination of these important events is lost. An apparatus which filters out the low frequencies has been developed. The remaining high-frequency, short duration waves can thereby be displayed as a series of separate events, each representing closure or opening of a valve. Several records obtained with this system are shown, and the potential value of this mode of analysis is discussed."
"The marked variations in the audiograms of the individuals and the wide variation in frequency response of different flexible stethoscopes preclude the possibility of any widespread system of standardization. Phonocardiography has well recognized teaching and clinical value but is limited in usefulness as a clinical tool. Electrostethography eliminates the use of auditory recordings and is a direct measure of vibrations and can be easily calibrated in absolute, i.e., cgs units. The patterns produced have a gross resemblance to phonocardiographic patterns but provide measurable frequency and amplitude data. The many factors which affect heart vibrations together with the numerous types of artefacts that can occur suggest the electrostethograms should not be studied according to the techniques developed from electrocardiography but should be done with long records, multifrequency channels, and calibrated amplifiers. This method is further improved by studying the vibrations as transients on a cv scope with locked sweep and provisions for recording of selected single cycles."
"Problems dealing with the registration of either apical or basal diastolic murmurs of poor magnitude are discussed. Current methods of phonocardiography are reviewed. Eight normal subjects and thirty abnormal cases were studied by means of a variable band-pass filter with additional amplification. The various frequencies of the cardiac murmurs were analyzed. A band between 60 and 110 vibrations per second was found adequate for magnifying and recording murmurs caused by mitral stenosis. A band between 150 and 200 was found adequate for magnifying and recording murmurs caused by aortic defects or mitral insufficiency. A routine method of study of cardiac murmurs, called ``selective phonocardiography'' is outlined. It is based on the use of the two above bands, in addition to ``stethoscopic'' phonocardiograms. Incorporation of filters in the case of the phonocardiograph is recommended. A new method of study of the frequency of extra sounds is described. Preliminary observations are reported. A new technique of intracardiac(ic) phonocardiography during routine catheterization is described. Preliminary studies in animals are reported."
"A miniature cylindrical barium titanate tubular element has been designed as an acoustic pickup and placed at the distal end of a specially designed catheter. The catheter is, in fact, an extension of the general design technique used to evolve underwater sound transducers used in antisubmarine warfare. Catheters have been designed in both single and double-lumen types, with provisions in the latter case for the usual practice of heart catheterization simultaneously with the phono work. Details of the response of the catheters and performance of the experimental system used are given. Sound spectrograms which plot time as the abscissa, frequency as the ordinate, and amplitude as the density have been made, as well as conventional photographic recording galvanometer records. Preliminary experimentation was carried out in dogs where both left and right catheterizations are cited."
"Using specially designed catheters and amplifying equipment, studies of intracardiac sounds have been carried out in man at the time of cardiac catheterization. The catheters, either single- or double-lumen, are passed into the lesser circulation under fluoroscopic guidance. The first and second heart sounds are heard in the heart and in the great vessels leading to and from the heart. The first sound is loudest in the ventricle and the second sound is loudest in the pulmonary artery. In some cases a third heart sound has been detected. In all cases with atrial contractions, a fourth sound is detected and is loudest in the atrium. With atrial fibrillation no fourth sound is heard. Even when no murmurs are heard on the chest or in the heart, there is routinely a midsystolic murmur in the pulmonary artery. In the presence of disease, abnormal murmurs are heard inside the heart. In certain types of congenital heart disease the localization of the murmur is of help in the diagnosis. Records are shown to illustrate that this technique is capable of localizing heart sounds and murmurs to an extent not heretofore obtainable."
"Exploration of heart murmur frequencies requires a pickup and associated electronics having great sensitivity and a wide range. Such a system, employing a capacitance principle, has been applied to reproduction of sounds from the precordium. The pickup is of the direct contact type, is relatively insensitive to extraneous noise, and is capable of recording murmurs of extremely low intensity."
"Heart sounds can be divided into three classes: short duration pulses (first and second heart sounds); broadband long duration noise (murmur); and long duration sounds having distinct harmonic pattern (musical murmurs). The characteristics of the analysis of these classes are illustrated, and the timing, duration, and filtering artifacts are discussed. A comparison between phase and amplitude filtering is given. Application of this research instrument to clinical size and cost is considered."
"It is accepted generally in medical practice that the low-frequency vibrations (up to 600 cps) of heart sounds and murmurs contain virtually all the available information. Newer concepts have been proposed that these signals actually consist of irregularly occurring transients which comprise the important information regarding heart action. These transients can be analyzed by recording the frequencies above 1000 cps. The level of these signals is subaudible and in some cases is below the noise level of the usual electronic amplifier. A preliminary model of such a heart sound analyzer which has been built and tested reveals the existence of vibrations in the range mentioned with amplitudes less than 1 per cent of those in the lower frequency ranges. Instrumentation aspects of this are discussed. Limitations imposed by lack of suitable microphones are mentioned and specifications for such a microphone are suggested. Available variable cutoff frequency filters have the inherent capability of introducing artifactual signals not present in the original heart sound. A specially designed filter, free of such artifact, is described."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"The counters without short-time internal memory, conceived by Bigelow, disclosed by Ware, and extended by Brown, are discussed from the standpoint of their respective logic. It is shown that the (self-instructed) bidirectional1 counter of Brown has a more rigorous logic than the unidirectional counter of Ware; the operation of Brown's bidirectional counter being subjected to the only restriction that its speed be compatible with the operating speed of its individual toggles, whereas the operation of Ware's counter is predicated upon the existence of unspecified buffering states in the input of each stage, to prevent run-away conditions. These buffering states, which occur naturally in Brown's bidirectional counter, can be provided explicitly in unidirectional counters by replacing the two transfer circuits of Ware's counter stage, which are controlled only by one toggle of the preceding stage, by two of the four transfer circuits of Brown's bidirectional counter stage, all four of which are controlled by both toggles of the preceding stage. This paper introduces the viewpoint that a bidirectional counter of Brown's type is a counter in which the state of one toggle of each stage determines which toggle of the next stage is master, while the state of the other toggle of each stage determines whether the slave of the next stage shall be like or unlike the master. This viewpoint permits a succinct discussion of the several possible interstage connections, and of the several counting codes obtained for each connection."
"The logical design described here is used in MINAC, partially constructed at the California Institute of Technology, and LGP-30, manufactured by Librascope Inc. These serial binary digital computers make use of magnetic drum bulk storage and use three circulating registers and fifteen flip-flops. The procedures used in performing the sixteen elementary operations are described. These descriptions indicate the circumstances in which each flip-flop or circulating register input is activated. The Boolean algebraic equations summarizing these circumstances constitute the logical design."
"A transistor-driven magnetic-core memory which has a capacity of 1024 18-bit words has been built and is being studied. Both the read and write operations employ the coincident-current technique. The memory-drive currents are developed by transistors and the desired memory location is selected by magnetic-core selection switches. Eighteen thousand, four hundred and thirty-two memory cores are used in the storage array, 48 switching cores are used in the selection switches, and 160 transistors are used in core-driving circuits and read-out amplifiers. A typical memory cycle, reading followed immediately by writing, requires 20 microseconds."
"Magnetic switches are described in which the current from an energizing source is guided or steered through one out of many possible parallel branches, the conducting branch being selected by the presetting of appropriate magnetic elements. Only a few tubes are required for energization, and the outputs, obtained with reasonable efficiency, are substantially independent of exact circuit parameters. Current steering is achieved either by core-diode combinations or by transfluxors. Decoding switches, of both types, for the selection of one out-of-many outputs according to an input code are described in detail. A current of precise amplitude of the order of amperes is switched to a selected path in microseconds. Steered decoders are ideal for addressing core memories. A commutator switch for delivering sequentially a given current to a number of loads is described. Current steering makes possible simple magnetic counters and universal code converters. Experimental results of laboratory models of decoders and commutators are given. The principle of current steering broadens greatly the usefulness of magnetic switches by providing economy of associated electronic drivers and accuracy of switched currents."
"An electronic analog multiplier is described, which is based on a modulation technique. No dc amplifiers are used, which makes the output entirely free of drifts. All distortions up to the fourth order are eliminated. The experimental model that has been built handles inputs from dc to 7 kc and gives an output from dc to 14 kc. The amplitude range of the output is 50 db."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Overviews current society and chapter news and events."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"In examining flip-flop response the principal concern of the logical designer is to find what input signals must be applied to the flip-flop in order to produce the output conditions that are desired. Equation methods of analysis and a time-sequential tabular method of analysis are described, and some advantages of the tabular method are pointed out."
"A frequency error analysis of computing elements is presented which leads to a definition of their dynamic accuracy. The concept of a computing transfer function is introduced for this purpose, permitting the evaluation of an effective bandwidth, the latter being connected with the variance of the output for wideband inputs. Limited bandwidth is considered as equivalent to finite resolution and thus to an additional effective error. Single frequency errors are dealt with separately and are shown to be of minor importance. Suitable optimalization of dynamic accuracy yields parameters of design and performance such as optimum computing time and required base amplifier gain. The theory is applied to integrators and adders with base amplifiers of direct and of capacitive coupling."
"A method of generating sine and cosine functions in analog computers by means of multiplier elements and integrators is discussed. Static accuracy of the method is analyzed and found to be essentially equal to the accuracy of the multipliers employed. The system accepts dθ/dt as the input and generates output voltages of sinθ and cos θ. Amplitude-stabilizing loops are employed to maintain sin2θ+cos2θ = 1. Advantages of the method include representation of unlimited range in angles, dynamic capabilities far beyond that of the multipliers alone, and possibility of employing electronic multipliers. The method has been successfully used to compute Euler angles in analog computer solutions of the three-dimensional flight equations."
"A transfer tree is a particular type of multiterminal network having a single input which may be connected to any one of a number of outputs. An n-relay transfer tree is partially developed if it has less than the 2n possible output terminals. Rearrangement of a partially-developed tree can lead to a reduction in the total number of transfers required. This paper presents a method of obtaining a required partially-developed transfer tree with the minimum number of transfers."
"With the diode function generators that are currently in use, generation of functions is made by combining straight lines, The main drawback of these function generators is that the slope of the line segment cannot be changed independently. With the new function generator described in this paper, functions are generated by connecting independent line segments. Accordingly, the slope of each segment is given independently and also quantitatively. It is possible to approximate any desired function without recourse to an oscilloscope for inspection. These advantages are realized by using ganged potentiometers differentially. The operating principle and a practical generator experimentally built are described."
"This multiplier uses the variable pulse area principle, but employs phase sensitive circuitry to operate naturally in all four quadrants without bias voltages. The output is zero if either input is zero. The X and Y channels are separately linearized with independent feedback loops. The circuitry is simple and lends itself to either transistors or vacuum tubes."
"For each logic function, or Boolean algebraic expression, there corresponds an appropriate computer circuit. However, the minimization of the appearances of the Boolean variables does not necessarily lead to the most economical circuit. A general approach to the problem therefore requires the development of techniques for the simple and rapid generation of a variety of near-minimal forms. This paper describes such a method for constructing the minimal representations of a logic function given as a truthtable or in one of its canonical forms. The minimal representations achieved are either sums of products, or products of sums, such that no term contains superfluous variables and such that no term is superfluous. The utility of the method lies in the conciseness of notation, which permits the handling of a large number of variables and simplifies the process for machine computation."
"This paper describes novel calculating techniques suitable for an electronic analog computer using exponential discharges to simulate the logarithmic scales of the slide rule. Among others, the device can perform the following operations: z = xy; z = x/y; z = xya; loga x; az; and evaluate such series as y = Axa + Bxb +Cxc+ ... where the exponents can be fractional and z, x, and y can be time variables. The problems can be solved explicitly or implicitly; thus in the above series y (or x) can be determined with equal ease if x (or y) are given. The Appendix describes an actual computer which gave accuracies of 1 to 2 per cent of full range from 0 to 95 per cent of full range and 4 per cent from 95 to 100 per cent of full range without recalibration for different groups of problems. The accuracy can be increased by calibrating the device for a specific group of problems."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Overviews current society and chapter news and events."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"The theory of least mean-squared-error filtering and prediction of statistical time series, developed by Kolmogorov,1 Wiener,2 Bode and Shannon,3 and others,4 has recently found applications in a variety of control systems. The design of optimum (least mean squared-error) predictors is based on measurement or calculation of power spectra. The present paper describes equipment for measuring power spectra at very low frequencies. It is shown that analog circuits having the transfer functions of exact stagger-tuned triples, with flat response in the pass band and good skirt selectivity, are easily designed and utilized in conjunction with magnetic tape recordings. Although the optimum predictor transfer function can be computed directly from the power spectrum of the signal to be predicted, the computation is complicated and a checking procedure is desirable. An analog computation which permits such a check is described. Since the power spectrum defines the optimum predictor, it determines the mean-squared prediction error as well. However, if a nonoptimum network is arbitrarily selected for use as a predictor, it becomes desirable to determine the incremental error that results from use of this network. A simple analog computation which determines the error of the optimum predictor and the incremental error of a nonoptimum predictor is described. This analog technique is a specific adaptation to prediction of the impulsive response techniques of Bennett5 and Laning and Battin."
"This paper presents the general concept of a weighted directed graph which we call a net. Illustrative examples leading up to the definition of a net indicate its applicability to a wide variety of problems in communication and network theory. A number of theorems concerning the proper paths of a net are established. A non-arithmetic matrix calculus is developed to facilitate computations and formalize proofs. In later papers, the techniques presented here will be exploited in the study of the theory of sequential machines."
"The fundamental differences between mechanical and electronic switching circuits are discussed with special emphasis on the problem of pedestals. Based on the fundamental differences it is shown that Boolean algebra fails to express practical requirements of electronic switches. This paper takes a step in the direction of removing this limitation by augmenting the ON-OFF notation of Boolean algebra by a notation of inequalities to handle the problem of pedestal-free switching. The ideal electronic relay is defined and a diode network realization is synthesized. An electronic switch is synthesized to illustrate the design technique's application. Photographs showing the performance of the circuits are given."
"A new concept in the design of a function generator of two independent variables is presented. This design is of the photoformer variety and utilizes pulse techniques to obtain the advantages of accuracy and semiautomatic calibration and self-correction. With this particular design, many of the objections of other types of photoformers, which have been used to generate functions of single independent variables, have been eliminated, and yet this design maintains the desirable aspects of the photoformer."
"Approximate solutions of probability of hit problems have been achieved by means of a simulation involving a masked oscilloscope and photocell for the target and samples from random noise generators for the system dispersions. The method is described in general and its possible application to other noise and statistical problems indicated. The statistical limitations on accuracy and computation rate, inherent in such a sampling method, are analyzed for an idealized probability of hit problem which may be used as a guide in choosing appropriate noise spectra for the mechanization of similar problems. Examples which illustrate two types of restrictions on the noise spectra arising in amplifier bandwidth and screen response are considered in detail and the statistical relationship between computation rate and accuracy determined for spectra shaped by some simple RC filters."
"The high-order probabilities of element sequences can be determined from a sample of linear structures and can be used for synthesis of new structures. From theoretical considerations one can identify the qualitative conditions for satisfactory output. The theoretical concepts can be tested and quantitative parameters determined by experiment. Such an experiment has been performed by analyzing written music and by testing the analysis through the synthesis of new musical compositions, using a digital computer. A sample of 37 melodies was analyzed for the probabilities of the elements, element pairs (digrams), trigrams, and so on to the eighth order. The tables derived were used for the synthesis of original melodies by a random process. The theory and the experimental verification are considered in detail. The experimental results presented include comparative statistics of the successful syntheses using each of the eight orders of analysis, examples of melodies generated by low, medium, and high-order synthesis, and confirmation of degeneracy and other effects predicted by the theory."
"The Dip-Log Correlator is a special purpose electronic analog computer which rapidly cross correlates the three variable functions of a dip-meter well log. This cross correlator utilizes a novel derivation and application of the cross-correlation function from information theory. A prerequisite of the system is the recording of the dip-meter data on magnetic tape for computation by the cross correlator. The triple cross-correlation technique and some of the essential circuitry of the cross correlator which is in operation as a geophysical tool at the Humble Oil & Refining Company Houston Research Center are described."
"Analysis of reactor problems requires the simulation of transport lags. This paper discusses the design of a compact and relatively simple transport lag utilizing a synchronously-switched bank of condensers."
"Man can handle small amounts of information in conscious purposeful activities. However, the concept of information processing is not limited to these; it applies equally to unconscious nervous control, and even to chemical control and coordination of metabolism. On this level, the amounts of information computed are enormous; man processes about 3×1024 bits per day just in the course of producing biochemical tools. The general pattern for these computations is laid down in a blueprint containing 105 to 109 bits of nonredundant information. Such numbers are characteristic of living things in general. These informational feats are performed with high over-all reliability in spite of frequently low precision Of single acts. This is accomplished by prodigious degrees of redundancy."
"It is the unique decision-making ability which makes the human operator particularly suited to accomplish flight control computation. His decisions range from the simplest repetitive determination of control actions, each intended to minimize the error, to complex problems of the sequential reprogramming of all the lower levels of decision which, in totality, comprise his information transduction process. The human sensory-input and motor-output channels must be properly used in order to insure maximum efficiency of the over-all human computer. The perceived noise can only be separated from the signal after the decision-making operation to be performed has been clearly identified. Human noise filter and information handling rate characteristics may be enhanced through the utilization of inherent qualities of the various input and output channels. A brief summary is made of the considerable effort which has been devoted toward the development of mathematical models for human tracking. It is emphasized that the human decision-making ability must be incorporated into the model before a realistic representation can be attained. A stochastic model is considered which is constructed in a heuristic manner, incorporating the decision-making ability. Specific direction is indicated which may yield the most fruitful approach to the mathematical analysis of human flight control computation. This future model would be of great value as a link between the related work in the fields of neurophysiology, biophysics, and psychology. Most important, it should provide a cockpit synthesis technique which will aid the design of future manned aircraft."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Overviews current society and chapter news and events."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"In this paper methods are described by which Boolean matrices can be used to synthesize digital systems. The matrices offer a means by which the design of such systems can be systematized much in the same way as do matrix methods when applied to electrical circuit design. They also present a means by which the problems of optimum logical design and programming can be approached."
"When the configuration of a circuit and the equivalent representations of the transistors are known, a computer program can be written to yield the performance of the circuit and the mean values of the circuit parameters. Nonlinearity of the transistors is accounted for by piece-wise linearization of an equivalent circuit. Rules of interconnection have been devised to combine this procedure efficiently with the manipulation of the matrix equations that define the linear extemal circuitry. The general method can be extended to combinations of basic circuits."
"The character recognition problem, usually resulting from characters being corrupted by printing deterioration and/or inherent noise of the devices, is considered from the viewpoint of statistical decision theory. The optimization consists of minimizing the expected risk for a weight function which is preassigned to measure the consequences of system decisions As an alternative minimization of the error rate for a given rejection rate is used as the critenon. The optimum recogition is thus obtained. The optimum system consists of a conditional-probability densisities computer; character channels, one for each character; a rejection channel; and a comparison network. Its precise structure and and ultimate performance depend essentially upon the signals and noise structure. Explicit examples for an additive Gaussian noise and a ``cosine'' noise are presented. Finally, an error-free recognition system and a possible criterion to measure the character style and deteriortation are presented."
"When a differential analyzer or analog computer is set up to solve a given equation, certain errors are introduced into the solution because the components of the computer are not perfect. Stated another way, the computer produces the solution to an equation, called the \"machine equation,\" which differs from the given equation. In this paper the computer imperfections considered are 1) operational amplifier frequency response, 2) capacitor leakage resistance, and 3) stray capacitance in summing and integrating amplifier circuits. It is shown that when the given equation is a system of one or more linear differential equations with constant coefficients, the machine equation can be expressed approximately as an equation of the same degree as the given equation and with constant coefficients which are functions of the coefficients of the given equation and of the computer imperfections."
"The convenience of vector notation in formulating physical geometrical problems results principally because the significance of the problem can be isolated from the analysis used in its solution. When analog computer techniques are employed in problems of this nature, the advantages of the vector methods frequently are lost because the computer inherently is more adaptable to solving problems described in the algebraic field of real numbers rather than in a vector space, and vector equations must be reduced to their scalar counterparts before a network for solving the equations may be synthesized. To facilitate treatment of problems of this type, a method is presented for synthesizing networks directly from the vector notation. This method will simplify synthesis and analysis of the networks by drawing a closer analogy between the mathematics and the electronics. The application of transformations and operators represents two areas in which the pertinent aspects of the method can be illustrated. This is accomplished by presenting first the basic mathematical background, followed by the network aspects of the problem, and finally, by the illustrative examples. The more extensive problems usually encountered, for example, in airborne fire-control systems, then may be synthesized by proper application of the elementary ``vector networks.''"
"A switching function is a function of variables which take only the values 0 and 1, and which takes only these values itself. There are 256 different switching functions of three variables, but only 218 of these really depend on all three variables. A switching function of three variables can be expressed in terms of switching functions of two variables. For example F1{F2[A, F3(B, C)], F4(B, C)} can be shown to represent any function of A, B, and C if F1 F2 F3 and F4 are suitably chosen switching functions. The problem solved is: for each switching function of three variables, what is the least number of switching functions of two variables required express it?"
"This paper begins with Mealy's model of a sequential machine and introduces a ``connection matrix'' which describes the machine completely. The ``equivalence'' of states of such a machine may be analyzed systematically by an iterative technique, the validity of which is rigorously established. Once equivalence is completely analyzed, it is a simple matter to write the connection matrix for the simplest equivalent machine. The process is not difficult to execute, even in complex cases, and could be programmed for a computer."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Overviews current society and chapter news and events."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The development of a new relay is described which meets the need for an improved general-purpose relay for use in existing and future business machines. Long life, reliability, higher speed, low power input and manufacturing economy are realized in the Permissive-Make Relay through the following factors: a new contact system; a balanced force system; optimum magnet design; limited tolerance buildup; adjustment-free assembly design."
"Details are given of the design and operational features of two versions of a new multielectrode transistor which serves as a full adder for binary numbers in computer circuits. This transistor in a simple circuit connection performs the logical operations “and,” “or,” “exclusive or,” “if-and-only-if,” “neither-nor,” “not both,” and “not.” The point-contact design utilizes two collectors with high current multiplication factors to provide signal amplification during the logical operation at very high speeds. The “all-junction” design utilizes p-n hook collectors to give much higher values of intrinsic alpha. The paper describes the nature of the internal positive-feedback action in the two-collector transistors and illustrates the function of these transistors as logic devices."
"Localized scatterers can be expected to give rise to spatial variations in the electric field and in the current distribution. The transport equation allowing for spatial variations is solved by first considering the homogeneous transport equation which omits electric fields. The homogeneous solution gives the purely diffusive motion of current carriers and involves large space charges. The electric field is then found, and approximate space charge neutrality is restored, by adding a particular solution of the transport equation in which the electric field is associated only with space charge but not with a current. The presence of point scatterers leads to a dipole field about each scatterer. The spatial average of a number of these dipole fields is the same as that obtained by the usual approach which does not explicitly consider the spatial variation. Infinite plane obstacles with a reflection coefficient r are also considered. These produce a resistance proportional to r/(1-r)."
"A new amplification principle, that of Microwave Amplification by Stimulated Emission of Radiation (MASER), has already demonstrated its potentialities for low-noise, narrow-band amplification. The present note presents an elementary analysis of MASER operation, including its potentiality for broadband, short-transit-time amplification."
"A new method for handling the Boltzmann equation is used to obtain, without approximation, a general formula for the linear Hall effect in a solid electronic conductor. Expressions for the conductivity in no magnetic field and for the quadratic magnetoconductivity are also obtained. These formulas introduce a vector mean free path, not in general parallel to the electron velocity, which is related to the velocity by an integral equation. Some possible cases of the formula for the Hall effect are analyzed. The solution of the integral equation for the vector mean free path is discussed, and methods of approximation are proposed."
"A method is presented for rapid compilation of analytical indexes and concordances of printed works, using either a conventional punched-card system or an electronic data processing machine. A detailed description of the procedures used in automatically analyzing and indexing the Summa Theologica of St. Thomas Aquinas is given. Reference is also made to the indexing of the Dead Sea Scrolls using an IBM 705."
"An experimental 50-megacycle arithmetic unit has been built which performs a repetitive multiplication program and checks the results for errors. The unit uses pulse circuitry which has been developed to perform digital operations at a 50-megacycle pulse-repetition rate. This paper describes the arithmetic system and the circuits which perform the required functions. These circuits include a full binary adder, a phase-locked frequency divider which provides a 3.125-megacycle secondary timing source, a reshaping and retiming circuit using germanium diodes and capacitive storage, a high-speed shift register, a high-speed indicator register, and a binary word generator."
"A microsectioning technique is described that enables metallographic sectioning of fragile semiconductor devices without the difficulties and specimen damage associated with the use of conventional techniques. Major advantages are (a) maintenance of a planar surface on specimens having adjoining areas of widely varying physical characteristics, (b) preservation of boundary details between such areas by elimination of rounding-off effects, and (c) precise positioning of the sectioning plane by direct micrometer caliper measurement. Choice of sectioning plane, specimen mounting, machine lapping of mounted specimens, polishing, etching, and panoramic microphotographic techniques are described. The effectiveness with which data can be gathered from the resulting microphotographs is demonstrated by an analysis and evaluation of selected specimen photographs."
"The intriguing properties of matter which are inherent only at low temperatures led IBM to initiate a low-temperature research program in 1954. The application of some of these properties to circuit components has been recently demonstrated by the use of superconductivity for computer components by D. A. Buck* and by the development of the Solid State Maser by Bell Telephone Laboratories.† This work has spearheaded a serious investigation into the possibility of using components that require low temperatures (below 10°K) in circuits of practical interest. Progress in this area has been greatly facilitated by the development of the Collins Cryostat manufactured by the A. D. Little Company. This has made liquid helium readily available to numerous laboratories."
"A memory cell based on trapped flux in superconductors has been built and tested. The cell is constructed entirely by vacuum evaporation of thin films and can be selected by coincident current or by other techniques, with drive-current requirements less than 150 ma. The short transition time of the trapped-flux cell indicates its possible use in high-speed memories. The superconductive film memory does not exhibit the problems of “delta noise” in core memories resulting from the difference in half-select pulse outputs."
"From a thin-film persistent-supercurrent memory cell is abstracted a particular theoretical model which is discussed exactly and in detail. The behavior predicted is in good agreement with that of experimental devices built to be as closely like the model as was possible at the time. Partly because of the simplicity of the analysis and the rather complete understanding thus gained, this model may prove to be useful for the design of large-scale memory and computing systems. For a single cell, a memory cycle time of 5 millimicroseconds should be achievable, and for a large memory perhaps 10 millimicroseconds."
"Written communication of ideas is carried out on the basis of statistical probability in that a writer chooses that level of subject specificity and that combination of words which he feels will convey the most meaning. Since this process varies among individuals and since similar ideas are therefore relayed at different levels of specificity and by means of different words, the problem of literature searching by machines still presents major difficulties. A statistical approach to this problem will be outlined and the various steps of a system based on this approach will be described. Steps include the statistical analysis of a collection of documents in a field of interest, the establishment of a set of “notions” and the vocabulary by which they are expressed, the compilation of a thesaurus-type dictionary and index, the automatic encoding of documents by machine with the aid of such a dictionary, the encoding of topological notations (such as branched structures), the recording of the coded information, the establishment of a searching pattern for finding pertinent information, and the programming of appropriate machines to carry out a search."
"A review is presented of the effects of electric fields on the ferroelectric phase transitions of barium titanate at 120°C and 5°C. The double hysteresis loop observed at the Curie point and the triple hysteresis loop and dielectric constant measured at the 5°C transition are examined in the light of Devonshire's thermodynamic theory of ferroelectricity in barium titanate. The data and various published experimental results are shown to agree with calculations based on the Devonshire free-energy function. The discrepancy between the coercive fields predicted by the theory and those actually observed is discussed."
"An apparatus is described for taking over the functions of the human heart and lungs for short periods of time to permit a surgeon to perform certain open-heart surgical procedures in a blood-free field. This equipment is capable of receiving venous blood from the patient, removing excess carbon dioxide and restoring the proper oxygen content, and finally of pumping the blood back into the patient's arterial system. The heart-lung apparatus is provided with controls that automatically maintain the pH of the blood at its correct value, maintain proper blood temperature and safeguard the patient against unwanted changes in blood volume and against excessive blood pressure during the course of the operation. The machine requires the attention of only two persons during normal surgical procedures."
"The extent to which scientific languages can be formalized is an important problem, especially if it is assumed that a theorem-proving machine will deal most effectively with formal systems. In Part I, the axiomatic attempts of Woodger in genetics and of Hull in the theory of rote learning are examined. In Parts II and III, to be published later, the more prominent efforts to formalize physical theory will be considered and a general study will be made of related questions."
"The effectiveness of a radiant-energy heater employing a hemi-ellipsoidal aluminum reflector and an incandescent lamp as radiation source is illustrated by application to the zone-melting of germanium. The factors affecting the design and performance of this heater are discussed."
"A novel method for driving cathode-ray-tube deflection yokes from digital equipment has been found. The system is compared with other methods and outstanding features are described. The important design parameters are outlined and their effect on circuit operation noted. A printed-circuit-package assembly of a typical converter using this system is shown."
"This paper discusses certain known characteristics and sources of radio interference and methods used to reduce the interference levels present in business machines. Particular attention is given to electro-mechanical machines ranging from a simple card perforator, operated by an electrical contact and an electromagnet, to electronic data-processing machines. The sources of interference in these machines are found in a wide variety of components and circuit configurations, such as electrical contacts, gas tubes, unterminated transmission lines and motors."
"A method for making superconducting connections to thin films of evaporated metal deposited on wires has been found useful at this laboratory. Compressed lead powder of the smallest commercial particle size is used as an intermediate contact between the film and external circuitry."
"An acid etching technique makes visible the domain structure of barium titanate crystals as reported by Hooton and Merz. Earlier observations by Merz of the mechanism of switching are confirmed by experiments using this technique. A discussion of domain wall formation in the orthorhombic state leads to the explanation of observed domain patterns. Photomicrographs are shown and discussed."
"A logic for the recognition of printed characters employing a “proportional parts” method has been tested extensively by simulation. The proportional parts method relates the identity of a character to the relative size and position of character elements detected by optical scanning along closely spaced vertical lines. The video information from each scan is coded to designate the number, size, and position of inked areas detected by the scanner. The time sequence or order of occurrence of this coded information is tested by logical circuitry against prescribed sequences for character recognition. A set of coding definitions, a prescribed sequence for the recognition of a given character, and the methods of simulative testing of the recognition logic on the IBM Type 650 Magnetic Drum Data Processing Machine are discussed."
"A general procedure is given for finding the equation of motion of the density matrix of a system in contact with a thermal bath, as for example a nuclear spin system weakly coupled to a crystal lattice. The thermal bath is treated both classically and quantum mechanically, and the theory is similar to, and a generalization of, conventional theories of time proportional transition probabilities. Relaxation of the system by the thermal bath is expressed by a linear matrix operator, and it is stressed that elements of this operator can be regarded as secular or nonsecular perturbations on the equation of motion and can be treated accordingly. When the motion of the system is slow compared to that of the thermal bath, the equation of motion can be expressed in an operator form which is independent of representation. If the system has a time-dependent Hamiltonian which varies slowly compared to the motion of the thermal bath, the same equation of motion is obeyed and the system is relaxed by the bath toward a Boltzmann distribution with respect to its instantaneous Hamiltonian. If the time variation of the Hamiltonian is more rapid, higher order corrections to the equation of motion must be applied. The theory is applied to spin-lattice relaxation of a coupled nuclear spin system in a metal, for arbitrary externally applied fixed magnetic field."
"A new design for interconnections of printed circuit packages in the IBM 608 Transistorized Computer is described. The three-dimensional arrangement for connections among circuit cards is shown to be flexible in design and adaptable to a highly mechanized manufacturing method. An arrangement for automatic cabling is discussed briefly. The various relationships among the design problems for circuit packaging, back panel connections and cabling are shown."
"When deviations from equilibrium conditions are small, the net rate at which electrons are interchanged between two groups of electrons which are separately in states of thermodynamic equilibrium is proportional to the difference of the Fermi levels applying to the two groups. With the help of this principle the first-order treatment of conduction effects in semiconductors (appropriate when carrier concentration deviations are small) is considerably simplified. Poisson's equation is shown to be ignorable in the first-order treatment of steady-state effects. Application is given to the Hall effect and to the characterization of probes."
"While the theory of electrical contact resistance is, for the most part, well known, it is difficult to apply directly to the prediction of experimental results since, in general, the theory involves microscopic parameters beyond the control of the investigator. Recent measurements of contact resistance as a function of the applied contact load, carried out under specified conditions, have yielded results which are in excellent agreement with the general theory. In contrast, however, to a number of previous publications, the results indicate that the contact area is determined completely by the applied load and an effective plastic yield pressure. Under conditions where contact wipe and vibration are held to a practical minimum, the contact area can be specified in terms of a plastic yielding mechanism down to pressures as low as 0.1 gram. In this region the bulk of the contact resistance is seen to be attributable, for nominally clean contacts, to an absorbed gaseous monolayer approximately two angstroms thick."
"A brief historical review of the electrostatic clutch operating on the Johnsen-Rahbek effect is presented. Mechanical design of a clutch, special lubrication, and the fabrication of electronically conductive clutch facing material are described. A high-speed, high torque-to-inertia ratio test model with bi-directional shaft control is described. With the clutch operating at 2500 rpm on 30 milliamperes at 150 volts, torques over 80 inch-pounds are available. The most useful single property of the electrostatic clutch is its fast response time. It can actuate levers, interposers, print hammers, optical gates, etc., in fractions of a millisecond; it can accelerate shafts to high rpm's with moderate loads in a few milliseconds from extremely low input control energy."
"In the experimental determinations of the coefficients of diffusion of impurities in semiconductors reported to date, it has usually been assumed that these coefficients do not vary with concentration. This assumption is questioned here. Interactions between acceptors, donors, electrons, and holes may lead to complicated diffusion equations, as shown by an analysis based on Onsager's theory. In particular, appreciable covalent compound formation is likely to occur between some substitutional donors and acceptors. This alone may lead to a marked dependence of diffusion coefficients on concentration, and to diffusion of acceptors induced by concentration gradients of donors and vice versa. Such effects are suggested by some discrepancies in the experimental results reported thus far."
"The design features of a new automatic data processing machine for business applications, utilizing a random-access memory system, are described. Unlike the usual “batch” method of machine-processing business transactions, the technique used permits transfer of information between any two points in the system and allows multi-choice decisions according to the current status of the information. The “in-line” operational concept is discussed in detail and the data transfer routes and processing controls are shown. Employing punched-card input and printed-record output, the IBM 305 accounting machine is designed to handle 10,000 line-transactions per day."
"The design features are described of a new large-capacity memory device having random access to information stored magnetically on rotating disks. The mechanical arrangement of an array of 50 disks is shown, and details are given of the pair of magnetic recording heads, which are spaced accurately from the disk surface by air jets. The access mechanism and the timing system for positioning the heads on the disk tracks are described. The total storage capacity of the system is 5,000,000 alphanumeric characters."
"Special design features and performance criteria are described for the logical system in the digital computer used in the SAGE (Semi-Automatic Ground Environment) air defense system. Design details are given for the arithmetic element, high-speed multiply, index registers, input-output control, and magnetic drum buffer. The system is designed according to special military application requirements of speed, capacity, reliability and flexibility."
"A number of laboratory measurements require a constant and uniform ambient temperature. A thermocouple-monitored system consisting of an oven, a stable reference source and a chopper-amplifier controller unit has been developed. This system provides a stable and uniform temperature, ±0.1°C from 200° to 1050°C in a cylindrical region 5 cm in diameter and 12 cm long. Each of the parts of the system is discussed and their operation as an integrated whole considered."
"Since current research on the intermetallic compound Zn3As2 has indicated desirable semiconductor properties, a new determination has been made of its crystal lattice, which had been reported variously as cubic and as tetragonal."
"A theory has been developed for the amplitudes and shapes of a series of spin echoes produced by a train of rectangular pulses of arbitrary number, amplitude, duration and time sequence. The treatment is based upon Jaynes' method1 of solving the Bloch equation in terms of the 2 × 2 rotation matrices of spinor theory. Whereas the formalism set up by Jaynes' for the solution of special cases requires matrix elements to be multiplied out at length, the present method manipulates the non-commutative algebra of the matrix formulas to arrive at the required results directly. To illustrate the method, we consider the case (see Fig. 1) in which a train of uniform pulses applied in arbitrary time sequence is made to produce a series of “stimulated normal order echoes.”2 We must determine the motion of the magnetization M(Δω) by solving the Bloch equation without relaxation terms. If the pulse train be generated by an amplitude modulated oscillator, the Bloch equation may be written in a rotating frame of reference as3 ∂M/∂t(Δω)+γ[Her×M(Δω)]=0, (1) where Her, “the effective field,” is constant during each pulse and is Her = H1+Δω/γ"
"The development of the IBM 738 magnetic core storage unit is described and associated engineering problems are discussed, including the electrical and mechanical arrangements for packaging more than one million magnetic cores and their circuits. This paper describes the driver circuits and the sense amplifier used for this system."
"Rational R and polynomial P approximations to the exponential function eN are studied. They allow eN to be computed for any value of the exponent N in the infinite range from minus infinity to plus infinity a minimum number M of multiplications (and divisions, for the rational approximations). This minimum is attained without unduly increasing the number PC of precomputed and stored constants and also without limiting the number Dg of the first correct significant digits."
"It is suggested that multipurpose devices will provide economy in both number and assortment of basic computer building blocks. A study is made of the Rutz commutator transistor largely in application to three-input, one-output logical situations. A basis is thereby provided for a more general analysis to be published at a later date."
"Estimates are made of the amount of searching required for the exact location of a record in several types of storage systems, including the index-table method of addressing and the sorted-file method. Detailed data and formulas for access time are given for an “open” system which offers high flexibility and speed of access. Experimental results are given for actual record files."
"The theory of the Lorenz number of a conducting crystal is developed for the common models of the electron assembly. For the one-electron model it is shown that, provided scattering is elastic to an approximation which is examined, the Lorenz number is equal to the square fluctuation of the thermoelectric power. For the phenomenological band model an equivalent result is obtained. It is hypothesized that these results are special cases of a more general one. Some applications, including the theory of the bipolar anomaly for semiconductors, are discussed."
"It is hypothesized that positive numbers suffice for the expression of quantities in accounting. New arithmetic operations are devised that yield non-negative results in computation, and the applicability of these operations to data processing is studied. These operations permit a wide variety of functions to be computed with fewer and less complex steps and imply the feasibility of constructing less complex data-processing machines."
"A thorough algebraic method is described for the determination of the complete set of irredundant normal and conjunctive forms of a Boolean function. The method is mechanical and therefore highly programmable on a computer."
"Mathematical models for evaluating the relative efficiencies of vertical and longitudinal redundancy-bit checking in magnetic tape systems are derived. Although these types of validity checking have been in use for some time, this is, to the authors' knowledge, the first quantitative statement of the probabilities associated with them."
"This paper describes a circuit which generates a continuous train of clock pulses bearing a fixed phase relationship to information pulses. By switching two gated oscillators, the information pulses continuously correct the phase of the clock pulses."
"1. The greatest advantage of the circuit as fas as binary triggering is concerned seems to be that simultaneous triggering at both bases can be used. This reduces the regeneration time in the flip-flop. 2. The circuit is quite sensitive to changes in input level. This can be overcome by application of a bias at the input which is greater that the anticipated noise level. 3. The symmetrical circuit finds application wherever flip-flops are used, including rings, counters and shifting registers."
"A mathematical model of a drift transistor has been constructed which enables us to study the time required for collector current to reach a steady value in response to a step function of current introduced at the emitter. IBM germanium drift transistors of the PNP type are being investigated. Various base widths and resistivities are being considered. The models devised are suitable for computation by electronic computers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the title page of this issue of the periodical."
"THE industrial power application engineer is faced more and more with the problem of resolving the properties of irregular wave shapes of current and voltage. This is due to the ever-increasing use of current-limiting fuses, electronic switching devices, magnetic amplifiers, gaseous discharge tubes, lamps, etc. For the most part, the quantities to be resolved are: the current-time product (∫ idt), and the summation of the current squared-time product (∫ i2 dt). From the former are derived average, and from the latter root-mean-square values of current. Which of these two is desired in a particular problem will depend upon whether the effects being studied are responsive to the first power or to the second power of the current."
"AFTER almost a decade of development of the gas-turbine-electric locomotive in practical service, this type of motive power has emerged from the experimental stage. One result of its acceptance in heavy through-freight service has been the demand for a unit considerably more powerful than those previously built. This has been designed and is now under construction. It embodies the same basic design principles found in the smaller units now in service. Wherever possible, advantage has been taken of the lessons already learned to design the new locomotive for increased efficiency, greater reliability, and lower maintenance requirements."
"THE SPEED-MERCHANT locomotive is a dual-power high-speed lightweight locomotive. Traction and auxiliary power is supplied either by its diesel engine or from the d-c third-rail source."
"DURING RECENT YEARS, the ratio of material to labor cost of mass-produced products has been increasing, mainly owing to the more effective use of automatic processes. In turn, this has stimulated efforts toward producing greater output per pound of material in such items as small motors, and toward greater utility per pound in such products as home appliances. This trend, along with the shifting of appliances from basement to kitchen or first-floor utility areas, brings the reduction of objectionable or undesirable sound (referred to as noise) into the forefront as a major design factor. The purpose of this paper is twofold. First, the over-all appliance noise problem in general terms will be discussed and, second, the problem of reducing that portion of noise contributed by the motor will be discussed specifically."
"CONTACT MODULATORS, or “choppers,” are frequently used in modern circuit design where modulation (or demodulation) at a fixed frequency is required. Their advantages for this service include extremely high ratios of open-circuit to closed-circuit resistance, almost negligible internal noise, and excellent stability and reproducibility. These properties make the contact modulator particularly suitable for use in several types of d-c and a-c amplifiers as well as in d-c servomechanisms employing a-c control elements."
"A method is developed for the systematic synthesis of multipole control systems which is based on the application of certain system constraints. These constraints reduce the degrees of freedom of the system without, however, resulting in an undue restriction on system performance. A system transfer matrix is described which characterizes the system. Through the application of the constraints it becomes possible to solve this matrix for the controller transfer functions required to achieve specified performance. This permits the synthesis of multipole control systems in a manner similar to that presently possible for single-input single-output system."
"THROUGH the years the author has had considerable experience with induction-heating calculating methods and has studied the reaction of others confronted with the problem of designing coils and predicting performance. It is a difficult job at best when one considers the great variety of materials heated and the almost limitless variety of shapes encountered. It is little wonder that the average engineer resists using calculating methods as much as he does. In an effort to develop a more or less standard calculating procedure for internal use in his company, the author arrived at the plan described in this paper."
"When the optimum condition of a control system is sought with the help of analog computers, the usual procedure is to vary parameters such as time constants and gains of control elements. However, with the analytical method, it is difficult to express the character of the system explicitly in terms of these parameters because some of the coefficients of the characteristic equation are functions of the parameters."
"This paper contains illustrations of the essential load characteristics of three types of residential heat-pump systems and their relationships to the load characteristics of the present-day full-use residential load and of the cooling load of the average home. It develops relative cost to serve the several types of heat-pump load and of the cooling load, and indicates the economic interrelationship of these loads."
"THERE is a class of control systems whose objective is to control precisely and maintain a relationship between several dimensions. A simple example of this type of system is the contour-cutting lathe-tool control where the cutting edge of the tool is made to trace out a path in two dimensions, one in the direction of the bed movement and the other in the direction of the tool feed. One approach to the synthesis of a system to control the movement of the tool is to cause the bed to progress either at constant speed or at a programmed speed consistent with the particular cutting operation being performed. In any case, the movement in one dimension of the tool movement is open-cycle and the burden of following the prescribed path is placed entirely on the system which controls the depth movement of the tool. The latter control is usually closed-cycle and the system must have dynamic response to maintain the tool position to within given specifications as the bed is moved in its programmed path."
"RESIDENTIAL air conditioning has made a significant contribution to the growth of loads in the warmer parts of the United States. Centrally located units for summer and year-round air conditioning appear on the horizon as potential loads of unprecedented magnitude to nearly all parts of the country. All phases of utility operations will be affected but of immediate concern is the determination of the characteristics of the distribution system. The first question to be answered is: “Shall single-phase or 3-phase service be provided?” The customer, as well as the company, is vitally interested in the answer."
"IN OCTOBER 1956 delivery began on an order of twelve 3,300-hp (horsepower) rectifier-type locomotives for The Virginian Railway Company. These locomotives mark the climax of 45 years of development since the first experimental mercury-arc rectifier locomotive was built, and represent the acceptance of this type of motive power for main-line railroad freight service."
"This paper describes an effective solution to the voltage-flicker problem associated with electric arc furnaces. It is a solution that resulted from close co-operation between the steel company, utility, consulting engineers, and equipment manufacturers. The performance during more than one year of operation has been highly satisfactory in all respects. In the past, the voltage-flicker problem has been solved by (1) the use of a series capacitor, a standard reactance synchronous condenser, and a buffer reactor; (2) the use of a special low-reactance condenser and a buffer reactor; (3) the use of a separate bus. In this installation a standard reactance condenser and a high value of buffer reactance were used to obtain the following benefits: (1) satisfactory flicker performance, (2) power-factor correction, (3) automatic voltage regulation, (4) low installed cost, and (5) low maintenance cost."
"Present methods for evaluating closed-loop poles of feedback-control systems are often cumbersome and laborious when the order of the system increases beyond the third. For the purpose of saving the control engineers' time to a great extent, this paper presents a very quick method for estimating the closed-loop poles of feedback-control systems of any order. The results given by the method are approximate but have acceptable accuracy for all practical purposes. The method, as demonstrated in an example, forms the basis for a new system-synthesis technique."
"IN THIS PAPER methods are presented for determining design modifications to improve the large-step response of a feedback-control system. This may be the response to a command or to a disturbance. The methods are applicable to systems of higher order as well as second order, and to systems with one or more important nonlinear effects. It is shown that the results obtained by application of the methods may be used to investigate questions not ordinarily answered by studies on a system subjected to small signal variations, such as: 1. Should a controller which has a dual mode of operation be instrumented for the system? 2. Should the saturation level for the cascaded components of the system be increased, thus usually mcreasing the linear range; or decreased, thus usually saving weight, bulk, and cost. 3. For an over-all required power gain in several cascaded components from the error to output, how should this power gain be distributed among the several cascaded components?"
"In linear multivariable control systems, a change in any input variable will usually result in changes in all output variables. It is useful for certain applications to obtain a system in which such interaction between controls does not occur. This paper uses previously derived matrix methods to synthesize a system with non-interacting controls by applying feedback around the given multivariable system. In addition to providing simple design equations for such systems, equations are also derived which give the input-output response and the disturbance response of the synthesized systems. It is shown that the matrix approach leads to a more simple and useful solution to the noninteraction problem than was the case in a previous approach to this problem."
"FOR MANY YEARS electric-traction engineers have been aware of the advantages that would accrue with system standardization in the heavy electric-traction field, but for various reasons the recognition of a uniform contact system as a standard for mainline electrification is as yet a goal to be attained."
"PROBABLY the most significant development since the war in the measurement and control field is the growth of analog computer techniques for the analysis of control systems for heavy industrial processes. Previously it was necessary to use cut-and-try methods on production equipment to determine the performance of any new system. This procedure was expensive for both the supplier and the customer. The supplier had to develop suitable test models for installation on production equipment without benefit of thorough testing. Field tests extended the supplier's facilities and caused him to do considerable research work away from his laboratory facilities. Equipment failures, component changes or redesigns in basic circuits caused extensive delays and introduced additional co-ordination problems between the supplier and the customer. Also, the customer's costs were not inconsiderable. As a result of his pioneering efforts into new systems, he would encounter increased production problems, generally lower production for the trial periods, and the added nagging worry of having his production facilities serving as the “guinea pig” of new concepts. Even in the field of bacteriology some subjects become fatalities before the serum is perfected. As a result of this risk, prime production or breeding stock is not injected with the newly developed material. Similarly, in industry, in the past, when the customer's best production equipment was eyed by the control “specialists,” tests were often permitted on only the limited service equipment and there was still considerable risk in applying a system perfected on older equipment to the newer and faster units."
"THE USE of direct drives for large draw presses in industry was originally brought about by the continued demand for higher rates of production as well as higher capacities in the presses themselves. The usual method of allowing the main drive motor to run continuously while the press is started and stopped by the operator controlling a clutch has become extremely costly because of production interruptions for clutch maintenance."
"LOW-VOLTAGE air circuit breakers are sometimes used alone as motor starters, since they provide in a single device the various elements of a motor-branch circuit as required by the National Electrical Code. The purpose of this paper is to discuss the effectiveness of the direct-acting series trips used on such breakers as a means of protecting squirrel-cage motors in the event of: 1. Locked or stalled rotor, either during starting or running. 2. Overheating due to prolonged moderate overloads. 3. Short circuits in the motor or in connections to it."
"THE TREND toward closed-system pipe lines and remote-control has brought many new improvements in the pipe line industry. However, with these innovations have come problems. Remote operation of pipe-line machinery necessitates bringing much information to a controlling point from the “satellite” stations. Transmission and display of this information for best utilization is a subject of interest to all pipe line engineers."
"The studies and analyses presented in this paper provide a rational method for the selection of the optimum buffer reactance and synchronous condenser size to limit flicker-voltage disturbances caused by arc-furnace loads on power systems in those cases where such corrective measures are required. The influence of the system parameters, including buffer reactance, condenser size, system reactance, and amount of additional steady loads such as furnaces in the refining stage of the melt, are considered simultaneously with shock loading produced by a furnace operating in the melt-down stage. In addition, the magnitude and frequency of the shock load are varied over a considerable range, since there is no generally accepted typical shock."
"FOR MANY YEARS the railroads have been operating their passenger business at a loss, and although they have studied this problem, to date they have not succeeded in reducing this loss appreciably. The locomotive and passenger-car builders have also been considering this problem in an effort to help the railroads turn the loss into a profit. In the last year they have put the results of their study into action by designing and building a new type of passenger car. These cars are lower in initial cost, lighter in weight to reduce the power required to haul them, have a lower center of gravity to permit greater riding comfort and more speed when going around curves, and have been designed to require less maintenance. The cars represent a marked change from designs that preceded them."
"The problem of stability rightly enjoys a central role in the theory of servomechanisms. In this paper the transfer matrix stability criterion1 is applied to an electromechanic servo system employing an amplidyne as the amplifying element. This criterion is valid for either exact neutralization, the strict amplidyne amplifier (in which case a unilateral feedback loop ensues) or for over- or under-neutralization, the Metadyne amplifier (which results in a bilateral transmitting feedback loop). Both cases of neutralization yield substantial agreement between the mathematical predictions and the physical performances, with allowances for the necessary idealizations introduced to render the analysis tractable."
"A special type of multirate sampled-data system, i.e., a system which contains switches operating with different sampling periods, is discussed in this paper. It is shown, after a brief outline of the multirate mathematics, how a multirate controller can be designed to compensate an error-sampled feedback system. Such a controller can be realized as a pulsed network which in response to input samples at time t = 0, T, 2T, ... produces output samples at time t = 0, T/n, 2T/n, ... (where n is an integer), any output sample being a linear combination of the past and present inputs and outputs. The multirate controller achieves a lower intersampling ripple and a faster settling time in comparison with its single-rate predecessor at no increase, in most cases, in the number of the required storage elements."
"MODERN industrial power systems are being provided with electrical distribution just as advanced in planning and design as the processes which are served. Expenditures for switching and protective facilities and for automatic operating features ensure against prolonged outages and result in over-all long-range economies. Prolonged outages in most new industrial power systems are no longer common occurrences; in fact they can be considered a rarity. Yet, there often remains a question as to the adequacy of over-all continuity of the electric system of modern continuous-process plants or oil refineries."
"WHEN a servomechanism contains an on-off relay or contactor as a controlling device, it is called a contactor servomechanism. Among the great advantages of this type of servomechanism are its simplicity and low cost.1 One of the great disadvantages, however, is that it falls in the category of nonlinear systems. Unfortunately, the state of the art at present is such that these systems do not lend themselves to analysis as readily as do conventional linear ones. Fig. 1 shows a diagram of a typical contactor servomechanism. Fig. 2 shows the block diagram of this same system."
"THE ELECTRIC arc furnace is usually considered a desirable load because of its good load factor and its high power factor. However the violent load variations, predominantly single-phase, which occur particularly during melt-down, make it a difficult load to supply because of the objectionable voltage fluctuations and lamp flicker which can result. The magnitude of these load fluctuations compared to the average furnace load is much greater than that existing for most large industrial loads. Designing a power system for supplying a large arc furnace requires much greater attention to flicker considerations than other types of loads and may actually require that special equipment be installed to correct undesirable flicker conditions."
"THE ANALYSIS presented in this paper is intended to provide a basis for investigating the effects of inverter loads on the stability of aircraft d-c power systems. There have been occasions when energizing a particular inverter has produced an unstable system. In the past, such a situation has been resolved, with varying degrees of success, by an arbitrary change in the time response of one or more of the offending elements. The problem has been subjected to several intuitive explanations, probably the most popular of which is that the time constant of the inverter and the time constant of the generator were the same. While such reasoning is intuitively correct, it is scientifically meaningless, and provides little or no guidance to the system designer. Since inverter-induced instability is a system problem, it must be analyzed on a system basis. The objective of this paper is to perform a system analysis, and to point out the measurable properties of the system which may be used to predict stability."
"The quantity and complexity of electric apparatus on aircraft have increased so much that maintenance of this apparatus has become a serious problem. On future aircraft, which will have even more complex requirements for electric apparatus, programs must continue to be initiated to provide more reliability and simplicity of this apparatus if the aircraft are to be kept in flying readiness. Generators, the source of electric power for the aircraft, are among the most important components of the electric system. Some of the construction details and the means by which a brushless air-cooled aircraft a-c generator can contribute to the reliability and simplicity of an electric system are analyzed in this paper."
"IN THIS PAPER several aspects of correlating thermal test data of blast-cooled aircraft generators are reviewed. A graphical presentation of machine characteristics is introduced, which may be used in predicting steady-state and transient machine temperatures. Methods are discussed for determination of machine heat capacity and for calculation of transient component temperatures. Supporting experimental data are presented. Relationships for the calculation of cumulative insulation damage are developed and their applications suggested."
"THERE are few data available on which the calculation of heat-transfer coefficients of blast-cooled rotating machine structures and adjacent stationary internal component surfaces can be based. The application of fundamental heat-transfer relationships, derived from stationary simple configurations, is impractical because of the significant effects of rotation and their variations with density of the cooling air, which may occur in machine passages. From temperature measurements on actual machines, heat-transfer coefficients cannot be derived reliably because of the usual difficulties in determining the heat-flow distribution among the various surfaces of a component whose heat dissipation may be known."
"THE PROVISION of electric power in aircraft becomes increasingly difficult as the speed and altitude of flight increases. The relatively large values of electric power generated per pound of equipment in subsonic aircraft are achieved by employing the low-temperature environmental air, directed as a blast through the generator, to remove the generator heat losses and limit the internal temperature. As actual and projected flight speeds increase, the air blast becomes less effective as a cooling medium, because the stagnation temperature of the air approaches and exceeds the allowable temperatures of the insulating materials, bearings, and brushes of the generator. To handle the cooling problem, the present trend in generator design is to introduce new materials which are able to operate at higher temperatures, to employ a circulating coolant such as oil, and an external heat exchanger, and to depend upon the evaporation of liquids for cooling."
"THE generation end of a conventional aircraft electric-power system consists of several basic units. These are the generator, voltage regulator, generator circuit breaker, and the control and protection panel. The basic functions of the control and protection panel are those of opening and closing the field of the generator, and supervising the opening and closing of the generator circuit breaker. In a parallel-generator system, supervising the opening and closing of the bus tie circuit breaker is another basic function. In order that these control functions be performed in a logical manner, a control and protection panel must sense voltages and currents throughout the electric system. These various voltages and currents are measured, compared with standards, time-delayed if necessary, mixed with each other in logic circuits, amplified, and finally used to perform the necessary control functions. The panel protective functions include such circuits as overvoltage protection, undervoltage protection, overexcitation protection, underexcitation protection, underspeed protection, stability protection, and differential current protection. The panel control functions include lockout circuits to prevent cycling of circuit breakers, and a circuit for automatic paralleling of generators."
"IGNITRONS are used to rectify a-c power to operate d-c drive motors on 22 rectifier locomotives. These rectifier locomotives represent the first large-scale application of the ignitron in railroad locomotive service. Ignitrons in railroad locomotive service are subjected to an electrical cycle which closely matches their inherent capabilities; although a motion environment of roll, pitch, vibration, and shock makes necessary certain mechanical design and construction techniques which are not required for ignitrons in other industrial applications."
"WHEN AIR is taken aboard an aircraft in flight, it undergoes an increase in pressure which is called the “ram effect,” and a cooling system which uses such air is called a ram-air cooling system. Up to the present, almost all systems for cooling aircraft generators have been of the ram-air type and, in addition, the simplest subdivision of the type, the so-called blast-cooling system. In this system, the generator is in effect simply hung overboard, and cooled by the stream of air forced through it by ram pressure. (In practice, the generator is mounted inside the aircraft diffuser.)"
"This paper describes in detail the work of the Naval Air Development Center (NADEVCEN) which attempted to develop the definitions and limits for frequency modulation and frequency transients in 380- to 420-cps (cycles per second) aircraft electric systems. In order to provide a common base for such definitions, the instruments used for making the measurements of these characteristics were examined and delineated in terms of required performance criteria. The definitions and limits developed are recommended for integration into appropriate specifications."
"The design and operational environment of the engines in today's jets, rockets, and missiles have raised new problems in the field of ignition. In the jet engine, the ignition must function at both high and low altitudes. At greater altitudes higher energies are required to offset decrease in oxygen: Higher energies naturally mean larger and heavier units, but size and weight are critical design factors which are strictly limited by engine specifications. In rocket and missile engines the problem is rendered more acute by the use of nitric acid or other agents which make the fuel electrically conductive. Conventional high-voltage ignition systems with jump-gap plugs are not adaptable to these fuels."
"THE MATERIAL that is presented in this paper was gathered during an engineering study on the same subject which was made for the Air Research and Development Command of the United States Air Force. The objective of the study was preparation of recommendations for needed development in the area of ground support for secondary power. In aviation terminology, secondary power is defined as that power which is used for purposes other than the propulsion of aircraft and missiles. Aircraft and missiles are defined as weapons, and a weapon system includes everything that is needed for maintenance, calibration, testing, and training during operational use of the weapon. “Ground power” substitutes for air-borne secondary power during tests. The familiar secondary power systems are electric, hydraulic, and pneumatic. During the study, it was found desirable to treat air conditioning as a fourth and newly important type of secondary power."
"In many closed-loop systems in which a human operator forms a link, the operator adds a special component to the error signal in continuously monitoring the system transfer function. Such a signal component, known in cybernetics as informative feedback, was found to be characteristically present in the control-stick motion of jet-airplane pilots. It was found, furthermore, that the amplitude of this feedback signal is subject to a learning process and that the over-all phenomenon, which falls within the scope of both control engineering and psychology, is amenable to quantitative analysis."
"IN RECENT YEARS, aerodynamic heating, or air-friction heating, has become one of the major problems in increasing aircraft velocities. Since little is known concerning the effects on air craft structures heated in this fashion, experimental data must be obtained which will indicate necessary design procedure. It is desirable that the experiments be conducted under laboratory conditions to eliminate the necessity for flight, to give greater ease in instrumentation, and to give the greatest control of test conditions."
"IN THE PROCESS of designing and developing a dynamic system, provision should be made for analysis of the performance of the system while it is still in the design stage. One method of analysis is to write the equations of motion of each moving part, then combine these equations in such a manner that a means of solution is possible. This method is satisfactory if the system has few moving parts and thereby does not require many equations to describe its behavior. For a highly complex system this will prove to be very laborious by longhand methods and should be submitted to machine computation for solution. The motion of the parts of the system may be such that an equation describing the behavior of any one part may be difficult to write unless approximations are made. They may have to be directly simulated by a device which has the proper dynamic characteristics built into it."
"IN THE DESIGN of an industrial plant, it is the function of the electrical engineer to determine what type of power system is required. This paper describes methods for the analysis of the relative reliability of different types of industrial power systems and the economic evaluation of the improvement in reliability which results with alternative types of systems. From this, the incremental investment that can be justified can be determined."
"THE first mechanical rectifier to be used in the field of “atom-smashing” has been installed and has completed 8 months of operation. Anticipated high reliability and rectification efficiency has been realized. To date no major operating or maintenance problem has arisen."
"THE linear theory in the field of feedback-control systems is highly developed and various techniques are available for analysis and synthesis of linear feedback-control systems. On the other hand, there are many problems to be solved in the field of nonlinear feedback-control systems. Techniques of analyzing and synthesizing nonlinear feedback-control systems are quite limited because of difficulties in handling nonlinear differential equations."
"A generalized approach is developed to aid in the synthesis of servomechanisms exhibiting adaptive behavior. The design methods described in this paper permit the synthesis of adaptive systems to follow polynomial signals up to any predetermined degree in the presence of Gaussian noise of known autocorrelation function. The basis of the method is the requirement that the servo loop adjust its parameters so as to minimize the steady-state root-mean-square error resulting from a polynomial input in the presence of noise. This condition specifies the functional relation between the servo parameters and the polynomial input. The physical realization of these functional relationships is treated in the paper and leads to the adaptation loops necessary to produce the adaptive behavior. As an example of the synthesis procedure, the design of a second-order adaptive system is presented. Analog computer results demonstrating that the adaptive system is superior in performance to linear systems of the same order are also included."
"A NUMBER of articles1―6 have been written which deal with the optimum response of a relay servo to a step input, with some mention of a ramp input. If optimum response is defined as that response which regains position correspondence in minimum time and without overshoot, then it has been shown that an ideal relay servo with second order motor-load combination may be optimized. The optimized relay servo has one period of acceleration with maximum torque, an instantaneous torque reversal (ideal relay) at an appropriate point, and one period of deceleration with maximum torque. The system attains zero error and zero error-rate simultaneously, the torque is removed, and the system is stationary at zero error. For the second order motor-load, with a maximum torque specification, this represents the fastest possible response. For higher order motor-load units, more switching operations5 are required."
"THE design of a pilotless aircraft electric system must be approached in a far different manner than for a piloted airplane. The pilotless aircraft has nobody to substitute for inoperative motors, relays, or servo systems. Each component in the aircraft system must operate properly or the result very likely is an aborted mission. Also, at the speeds and accelerations encountered in pilotless aircraft, a tremendous amount of energy is expended to get each pound of equipment to its destination, thus an ever-increasing premium is placed on component weight. To achieve the conflicting requirements of high reliability and light weight with equipments either available or within reach of reasonable development time and efforts, the system depicted by Fig. 1 was designed and developed."
"D-c metering of large aluminum reduction pot-lines represents a major problem. It is no easy task to get the required degree of accuracy in measuring powers of 100,000-kw direct current. Taking advantage of the magnetic-core improvement in materials made available by developments during World War II, the magnetic amplifier emerged as a tool for many applications. Among these was a major improvement of the metering accuracies for large electrochemical pot-lines. In this paper the many advantages are discussed and some conclusions reached as to the best fields of application."
"THE SIMPLICITY and economy of on-off controllers has led to their wide control system application in industry. It is possible to employ the on-off controller principle in the design of a power amplifier that is simple and rugged. The use of such a device will be restricted to the operation of loads that incorporate a smoothing or low-pass effect in their response."
"THIS paper deals with an installation of electric heating and air conditioning in a New England residence. The installation was made through the close co-operation of the local utility and a family building a new home, and serves the particular purpose of providing the utility with information. It is probably unique because the one house features two full-capacity systems."
"This paper derives methods for calculating voltage modulation for a given speed disturbance with closed-loop voltage control. The magnitude of voltage modulation is quantitatively related to the open-loop frequency response of the voltage-regulating system."
"WITH the advent of the Electra turboprop aircraft, a new phase was introduced in the type of electric power generated and distributed on commercial aircraft. Previously to this time, nearly all commercial aircraft used a 28-volt d-c system. However, the requirement for higher rated systems and the requirement of the load equipment for a-c power resulted in the Electra using the 115/200-volt 3-phase Y-connected a-c system. Many models of military aircraft had already used a-c systems but the systems in production at that time mainly used rotating exciter generators with sensitive protection relays. At the time that the Electra design was initiated a static excitation system with magnetic amplifier controls and protection was under development. This system was developed in order to increase reliability and provide closer limits of system performance. This static excitation system has been applied to the Electra and this paper discusses its design features."
"MODERN prime movers, especially turbines, and new applications such as missile auxiliary-power units, have established requirements for reliable, efficient, high-speed machines for the generation of electric energy. The specific feature of the permanent-magnet alternator, i.e., elimination of the wound field and, hence, external excitation and slip rings, makes this type of machine superior to conventional machines for these applications. Reliability is enhanced by the elimination of arcing contacts which cause radio interference, brush operating difficulties at high altitudes, and explosion danger in confined, fuel-laden atmospheres."
"THE increasing electric power requirements in today's aircraft make necessary the continual search for better methods of protection against faults which may cause the loss of electric power or otherwise endanger the mission. Power-system studies have been made in the past using a mock-up of the electric system composed of actual components, and have proved quite successful. However, it is desirable to obtain information faster, and before the development of complete apparatus. Parameters such as line voltages and currents, positive-, negative-, and zero-sequence voltages and currents must be known in order effectively to apply system protection, and they are of much value in regulator design. Faults occurring where they produce the same effect on all regulators, such as at the bus, can be calculated very simply by the method of symmetrical components. A means for detecting such faults by use of negative-sequence voltage is pointed out in another paper.1 However, in multigenerator systems, load-division circuits are employed in order that the load current may be properly divided between generators. Generator currents are usually sensed in a single phase through a current transformer; consequently, generators are forced to divide load current relative to the current in the current transformer associated with a particular generator feeder. Should a fault occur on the load-division phase at a point between a generator and its load-division current transformer, as shown in Fig. 1, that generator would become overexcited and supply practically all of the fault current."
"This paper presents a method of compensation to be applied to continuous as well as to sampled-data systems which reduces to zero any overshoot or error after a prescribed finite time. This prescribed response is applicable to step or ramp inputs and could be extended to acceleration or higher order inputs. It is shown that this response can be accomplished using the modified z-transform1 which yields the system response for all instants of time. The procedure, illustrated in examples, is applicable to general linear physical systems with no inherent delays. The compensated system may be designed so that shifts in gain or other dynamical disturbances have a small effect on the prescribed response. In conclusion, the method presented is powerful in synthesizing control systems to tally with a prescribed response and furthermore is straightforward in its application."
"THE ADVANCE in metal-rolling techniques during the past two decades has been tremendous. The delivery speeds of tandem cold mills have increased from 3,500 to more than 7,000 feet per minute. The reversal time (base speed to base speed) of electric-driven blooming and slabbing mills has been reduced from 2 seconds to less than 1 second with a resultant increase in output. Rod and tube mills have been greatly improved which has resulted in higher quality and a reduction in scrap."
"OPERATING economies and efficiencies are realized from the concentration of power system control and indication in a single central location. The average steel works power system is ideal for the application of centralized control equipment."
"THE STEEL INDUSTRY is one of the largest industrial users of electricity in the United States. The electrical problems encountered include generation, transmission, distribution, and utilization."
"POWER SYSTEMS of electrical utilities are nominally constant-speed (mechanical) and constant-voltage (electric) types of system. Therefore, the degree to which these two quantities are maintained constant at all times determines the quality of service supplied by the utility. Changes in mechanical torques and in electric currents on the system cause deviations from normal speed and voltage. Adjustments in input to prime movers, in excitation of synchronous machines, and in ratio of transformation are required to restore balance on the system with normal speed and voltage. Large capital investments are made by the utilities for equipment designed for automatic control of speed and voltage. All such equipment has an inherent time-delay characteristic. First, a deviation from normal value must take place before the need for correction is detected by the regulating device. Then, the corrective action must be damped or delayed enough to prevent oscillations. The magnitude of the controlled quantity is held within a band between a minimum and a maximum value for relatively slow changes of loading."
"CANADA'S first subway began operating in Toronto on March 30, 1954. In the first 2 years of operation it has carried about 144,000,000 passengers and its cars have travelled about 12,000,000 miles. So successful has it been that the initial order of 106 cars is being increased over 30% (per cent) by an order for 34 more. Their arrival during the coming summer will permit the system to operate at its ultimate designed capacity of 40,000 passengers per hour in each direction. Its popularity with the riding public has created an urgent demand for a second subway and has proved the advantages of rapid transit in one more metropolitan area."
"MOST of the cold rolled steel strip which is produced today is rolled on tandem cold reduction mills. Fig. 1 shows a 5-stand mill with its unwind and winding reels. The strip fed into the mill has previously been hot rolled and pickled. Each stand, using a combination of pressure transmitted through the work rolls and interstand tension, reduces the strip thickness by as much as 50 per cent. When the delivered strip is later to be plated and made into tin cans, the nominal input thickness to this mill may be 90 mils and the delivered thickness 8 mils. Typical delivery speeds for this product are 3,000 feet per minute up to nearly 6,000 feet per minute. The subsequent operations upon the steel to obtain the finished product require that each coil of strip be rolled to close thickness tolerance. Although mill operators can and do control thickness by manual adjustment, this is difficult and tedious even for the most alert operators. Therefore, a completely integrated automatic gauge (thickness) control for a tandem cold strip mill has been built and placed in service for more than a year. Other equipments are being manufactured and some are being installed on other mills."
"This study illustrates the nature of the multivariable control problem in a particular context. The character of transfer or control equations for multivariable machines and processes is briefly examined. Incremental steady-state transfer equations are developed for a typical multivariable machine, namely, the strip rolling mill. The equations are derived from the theory of plastic deformation in rolling, and the electromechanical equilibrium equations of a mill. A numerical example of these equations for a representative 5-stand mill is given. The results may be used to consider general forms for automatic control systems."
"THE ANALYSIS of electric machines makes use of the vector diagram and the equivalent circuit diagram. Both of these methods give the various quantities sought (current, voltage, torque, etc.) under conditions of steady-state operation. When electric machines are used as elements in a general control system, one should rather apply the same techniques used for system analysis to the performance calculation of the particular element. In this case one is more interested in the machine's dynamic behavior, lag or lead it introduces, band width, frequency response, and an easy method for computing the modification or compensation it causes."
"An analytical-numerical-graphical method is presented for the transient analysis of nonlinear feedback systems. The method is applicable to systems of any number of linear elements and one nonlinear element whose characteristic may be represented by y = φ(x), where x and y are its instantaneous input and output. The techniques employed are operational mathematics, numerical integration, and a graphical solution of two algebraic relations. Several examples, including both electric networks and a feedback control system, illustrate the procedure. Experimental results and theoretical considerations relating to the accuracy of the method are given."
"Oscillations between sampling instants in the response of sampled-data control systems impose certain limitations on the z-transform method and other methods available for synthesis of such systems. It is shown that these oscillations appear in the response because of certain forms of the open-loop transfer function G(s). If the impulsive response of these functions is oscillatory then these oscillations occur in the response, and if the sampling period is larger or equal to half the period of these oscillations, the z-transform method fails to indicate their presence. The modified z-transform can be advantageously applied in these cases. This method is straightforward and simple in detecting the presence of these oscillations and indicating their values. Theorems relating to initial and final values of the response in the form of modified z-transform has been presented. Two examples have been discussed in which such oscillations occur and the modified z-transform method has been applied in their analysis."
"THE rehabilitation and modernization of any organization _ industrial, transportation, commercial _ is usually of interest. When such an organization is a railroad handling 285,000 passengers per day, its rehabilitation and modernization become a matter of more than usual interest. Such is the case of the Long Island Rail Road."
"THIS PAPER gives a procedure for the analysis of servomechanisms with nonlinear elements in the feedback link. The method is then extended to the analysis of servomechanisms with nonlinear control in the forward link and nonlinear control in the feedback path. Phase-plane equations representing the equations of the projections of an n-dimensional space trajectory on suitable planes are obtained. These can be solved by the methods detailed in previous papers.1̲3"
"MUCH OF THE LITERATURE in the field of feedback control has been concerned with linear, time-invariant systems. The labor involved in obtaining solutions to even simple problems in time-varying systems may well have discouraged research in this area. Nevertheless, many practical systems unavoidably contain time-varying components, and methods of dealing with such systems are desirable."
"THE SPEED of response is one of the most important characteristics of a large class of servomechanisms. A variety of methods and criteria for determining the speed of response exists. One of these criteria is the length of time between the application of a step of input to the servo and the time when the output corresponds to the new input, within a specified tolerance. This length of time is usually referred to as the settling time. Fig. 1 shows the settling time of a typical underdamped servo. In most applications, the designer desires to obtain as small a settling time as possible, i.e., he will design the servo with the highest possible speed of response."
"The response of an electromechanical control system, which incorporates by design a hard-spring amplitude characteristic, is evaluated for inputs having a Gaussian amplitude-probability distribution and no constant components. These inputs are considered not as noise, but as true signals. The analysis is limited to a system with a second-order characteristic equation and is based on a general extension of the describing function technique. The control system considered is simulated on an analogue computer and experimental verification of the analysis is obtained."
"IT IS NOW a standard procedure to use the sinusoidal-analysis, or describing-function, method in the investigation of quasilinear servomechanisms. The Nyquist criterion is applied to determine the stability conditions, and the Nyquist diagram provides some information as to the type of equalization that should be employed.1 These techniques may be used even when the describing-function of the nonlinear element is both frequency and amplitude sensitive, but this requires the graphing of a family of describing functions.2 This complication may be avoided by isolating the frequency-sensitive and amplitude-sensitive portions of the describing function into separate terms. In the trivial case, the describing function Ho´ may be represented as $H_o{\\prime} = H_{n}H_{o}\\eqno{\\hbox{(1)}}$ where Ho is amphtude dependent and frequency independent, and Hn is amplitude independent and frequency dependent. Unfortunately, this easy separation of terms canot be achieved for the describing function of an element with coulomb, static, and viscous friction, a type of element present in many servo systems. This paper with show, however, that an equivalent result is achieved by means of an equivalent, block-diagram representation of Ho´."
"THIS PAPER describes a pressure control switch which uses viscous damping to prevent the transmission of pressure pulsations from a pump outlet system to the pressure control system. This was accomplished by designing a pressure switch which has certain dynamic characteristics as well as the normal static characteristics. By controlling the amplitude of the pressure pulsations at the switch with a mechanical low-pass filter, a resulting simplification of the switch structure was obtained."
"COMMERCIAL-frequency railroad electrification, as a result of its increasing application in Europe, Africa, and elsewhere, has established its place as one of the prominent systems of electrification."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"IN PLACE of the boiler, as found in the steam power plant today, a nuclear-fueled steam generator will be applied in many instances in the years immediately ahead. In fact, the atomic plants already in design exceed 1,000,000 kw capacity. The industry has been so deeply involved in the evaluation of the economic feasibility of nuclear power that very little attention has been devoted to the problems which are to be expected in the operation of these plants. In general, this phase of the problem has been dismissed by one of two statements: (a) The nuclear plant should be only slightly more difficult to operate than the conventional plant. (b) The nuclear plant will require about the same kind of operating crew as will the conventional plant. The authors subscribe to both of these general statements, but they also believe the time has come to look more closely at the details of nuclear plant operation. Glasstone1 indicates less than one mill per kilowatt-hour variation in the estimated ultimate total cost of power between five reactor types. These are recognized to be rough estimates, but they do indicate that rather small factors of cost, such as operation and maintenance, may strongly influence the final selection of reactor type."
"THIS paper explains how nonlinear computation including inversion, determining powers, positive and negative roots, logarithms and antilogarithms; and obtaining the hyperbolic functions may be made by using simplified linear circuits. Such circuits may be fed with d-c or a-c power for the different computations mentioned, except for direct multiplication and obtaining the hyperbolic functions where the circuits must be fed with a-c power. In all cases the operation of the circuits is simple, quick, and systematic, and ordinary measuring instruments (ammeters and voltmeters) are used."
"SELF-BALANCING magnetic amplifiers1,2 employ feedback to produce extremely useful characteristics. The input impedance can be made to approach either zero or infinity, the transfer characteristic is linear, the response time is easily varied to the minimum delay of one-half cycle, and the drift can be low because of a high signal-to-noise ratio. Applications of these circuits are appearing in increasing numbers in the literature 3‾6 but until recently an analytical study was not available because of the complexity of the feedbacks involved in their operation. A previous paper6 indicates the general principles of self-balancing operation and discusses in detail one type of self-balancing circuit, the voltage-type. The following discussion will pertain to the current-type self-balancing magnetic amplifier. This amplifier has an input impedance approaching zero and as such is of considerable interest as a summing amplifier for signals from various sources."
"THE NEW Subscriber-Carrier System type 561 described in this paper is a result of many months of engineering effort by many individuals in the Stromberg-Carlson organization. The design was undertaken to satisfy a pressing need in the telephone industry for an inexpensive yet good quality system which would help alleviate the critical situation existing in the field of rural service."
"Calculations are made for the radiation flux in a radioactive medium. The scattering effects are treated with a simplified model giving an easy survey of the total flux in media with various densities and various atomic weights. The calculations are used for comparison of the sensitivities of common detectors for radiation monitoring of air-borne and water-borne radioactivity. The results are in diagrams compared with the stipulated tolerances of radioactivity in those media for the common isotopes."
"INSTRUMENTATION in the fields of neutron and reactor physics may be divided into two general categories: The first is the general field of reactor instrumentation. Here, three functions must be fulfilled: the monitoring, the control, and the protection of the nuclear reactor. Until these three functions are fulfilled, the reactor cannot be safely used as either a neutron source or a critical assembly."
"Burn-out testing involves the heating of reactor fuel elements to destruction or near destruction. Its purpose is to provide a knowledge of the upper limits of power that can be removed from a nuclear reactor. The heating is done electrically because the electric heat can be conveniently applied and accurately controlled and measured. Also, the resulting heat distribution is very similar to that due to nuclear action. Electrical problems are associated with every phase of the testing and most of them have some nonstandard feature. The paper gives a detailed description of the electric equipment used in a burn-out test facility and discusses solutions to the various problems that have arisen during the test program."
"A unique a-c ionization chamber is described utilizing the acoustic pressure generated within an ionized gas by an applied a-c field. On the basis of preliminary theory an experimental neutron-sensitive chamber was designed. The instrument has an approximate sensitivity of 1.5 × 107 neutrons/cm2/sec (neutrons per square centimeter per second) and proves to be rugged and fast."
"The nonlinear differential equations for series and parallel ferroresonant circuits are solved to give the discontinuous transition time between stable states. This time agrees with experiment. Such things as the dependence of “jump time” on lamination thickness and a discussion of some general negative-resistance factors are given. The mathematical solution is accomplished by assuming the saturation curve of the inductor to be a series of odd-powered functions and the investigation is limited to the cubic term. First, a single sinusoidal solution is assumed and then a second term, third-harmonic correction, is included. The static results are compared with the actual observed circuit characteristic as well as with a simple graphical solution. Transient analysis is carried out using a variational approach which allows the perturbed differential equations to be reduced to canonical form. This results in a damping-time constant and oscillation frequency both of which are nonlinear. Hysteresis and eddy-current losses are found to have a significant effect and are included in the study."
"This paper analyzes the logarithmic-diode counting-rate meter and the logarithmic-diode period meter, treating the problem of obtaining rapid response to reactor-flux transients while minimizing the spurious fluctuations caused by the random character of neutron detections in a fission counter. A procedure for choosing design parameters is discussed."
"The application of the wire-activation technique was extended so that flux profiles could be obtained in the cores of pressurized water-type reactors. Tests with magnesium with 0.01 a/o (% by atoms) indium, 0.010 inch in diameter, showed that the method is feasible and the counting rates are high enough to give reliable results."
"THERE ARE TWO ASPECTS to the development of communications systems (as there are to the development of many other systems). The first is the invention of the fundamental equipment. The second aspect is the analytical study of the use to be made of this equipment, namely, of the transmission medium in which the equipments are to work, and the engineering of the component parts to give an optimum result."
"THE PURPOSE of this paper is to present the design considerations of a new single-phase or single-stator watt-hour meter with marked improvement in performance, and lower inherent manufacturing costs than a conventional meter of the same heavy load capacity. A limited discussion of design problems on present ratings is included to clarify the comparisons made."
"THE Washington County, Maryland, Board of Education is conducting a 5 year experiment to evaluate the use of closed-circuit television as a teaching medium. The application of the medium is divided into three phases corresponding to the school years of 1956-57, 1957-58, and 1958-61, shown in Fig. 1. The first phase provides for the interconnection of five program originating points with eight public schools in Hagerstown and vicinity with three television channels. The second phase provides for the expansion of the network to include the interconnection of 23 schools with 6 television channels. The third phase provides for the further expansion of the network to include all 48 schools in the County. The existing and planned extensions are shown on Fig. 1."
"HIGH orders of accuracy in voltage-ratio measurements are becoming increasingly important in computer fields. Accuracies of 0.01% or better are desired. Equipment such as precision ratio transformers are used in these applications. However, methods have been lacking for verifying the ratios of this equipment to that accuracy at the desired frequencies of 100 to 10,000 cps (cycles per second)."
"A new technique is described for the detection and estimation of magnitudes of corona discharges in electric devices during high-voltage testing. This technique employs the electronic electrometer as all instrument to measure the residual charge left in high-voltage structures by both impulse and low-frequency corona or breakdown discharges. For impulse testing, the method can be used with any shape or duration of voltage wave, and for coil sticks it has permitted the prediction of permanent damage and breakdown in many cases. The method is applicable in the testing of high-voltage structures involving at least some solid insulation."
"IT IS CUSTOMARY in a discussion of this type to start with the history of the subject as far back as one can obtain records. However, because of limitations of time and space and because it is thought to be more important to look forward, it has been decided to dispense with historical background except to mention that, since Marconi invented the tuned circuit, which required a particular frequency in cycles per second of a radio wave to be used by both transmitter and receiver, the game of the assignment of these numbers representing the frequency of the radio wave has become much more complex."
"ONE of the most pressing problems in modern life is the construction and maintenance of an adequate system of highways. It is evident that the need is great for more new highways and, equally important, they must be constructed in the most durable manner possible."
"Motor-generator sets are frequently used as buffers to isolate electronic equipment from severe power transients which may cause misoperation. An investigation of voltage tolerances for digital computers, performance of d-c supplies, and probabilities of fault occurrences indicates that if the power is generated on the site of the electronic equipment, motor-generator sets are not necessary to meet the critical requirements of the digital computers employed in the SAGE (Semi-Automatic Ground Environment) air-defense system."
"In a paper reviewing the subject of transcontinental telephone communications in Canada reference was made to the long-term relief plans of the Trans-Canada Telephone System. It was pointed out that this envisaged a coast-to-coast radio-relay system carrying television and L-carrier facilities. The construction of this system is now well advanced and is scheduled for completion in 1958."
"THE Western Union Cable System includes four continuously loaded ocean cables: the Hammel-Horta cable (1 HO) laid in 1924, the Hammel - Bay Roberts and Bay Roberts - Penzance cables (2HM-BR and 4 PZ) laid in 1926, and the Bay Roberts - Horta cable (2 HO) laid in 1928. No two cables are alike in the amount of loading or in capacitance and conductor resistance per mile."
"TELEVISION BROADCASTING began in Canada in September 1952, when the first two television stations owned by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) went into service in Montreal and Toronto. These stations were built with a loan of $4,500,000 provided by the Government of Canada for the purpose of establishing the nucleus of a Canadian television system. In the 5 years which have passed from that time to the present, the television industry has grown at a rate which far exceeded all expectations, and already about 80% of the population of Canada has television service available. The number of transmitting stations has increased from the original 2 to 39, of which 8 are owned by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, and 31 by private interests. In addition, 8 more private stations are under construction and several other applications are pending. CBC now has television stations in Halifax, Montreal, Ottawa, Winnipeg, and Vancouver carrying English network service, and second stations in Montreal and Ottawa carrying French network service."
"WHEN FILTER CHOKES are designed for use in d-c power supplies, it frequently becomes necessary to make an estimate of the physical size of the choke, once the electrical ratings have been determined. The electrical ratings usually considered are the inductance, the d-c resistance, and the maximum allowable d-c current. Several fundamental relationships between these ratings and choke size are made. The relationships that result from the following analysis not only can be used for estimating the space requirements of a choke from a knowledge of the electrical ratings, but also point out interesting interrelationships of the electrical ratings."
"This paper reviews the use of light-route microwave systems as auxiliaries to the TransCanada TD-2 microwave system for television and telephone transmission. It briefly outlines the reasons for their use, and discusses the need for diversity reception to obtain reliability. Specific applications along the TD-2 route are described and a review is made of possible future developments."
"An analysis is presented of the concept of statistical redundancy. It is shown that the redundancy can be separated into two parts, nonpredictive redundancy and predictive redundancy. The nonpredictive redundancy results from the message not possessing the most efficient first-order probability distribution while the predictive redundancy results from the statistical correlation of the present value of a signal with its past history. The analytical procedure presented in this paper is then applied to the television communication problem. The results of this analysis compare very favorably with existing experimental evidence. The analysis indicates that by clever statistical coding, a bandwidth reduction of about two to one might be obtained, although even this modest gain would require complex equipment. The conclusion is reached that the best way of achieving bandwidth reduction in television communication is by cleverly degrading the information in a picture in such a way that the human observer would not notice it appreciably."
"A variable-speed drive is described in which a 2-phase induction motor is energized by power modulators of the frequency-doubler type. The system provides continuous and reversible control of motor torque. In comparison with similar drives using conventional magnetic amplifiers this system has the advantages of simplicity, high efficiency, inherent zero stability, and reasonably flat torque-speed characteristics. Both steady-state and transient characteristics of the drive are described and analyzed."
"WITH the advent of power-frequency magnetic-amplifier devices for logic systems, a need has developed for power-output magnetic amplifiers to raise the very low output level of logic elements to the moderate power requirements of transducer devices. Logic devices generally replace small control relays in industrial applications, but, instead of being able to control loads of approximately 100 to 1,000 volt-amperes, their output is in the range of 0.1 to 1 volt-ampere. Output amplifiers must supply the power required to operate transducer devices such as pneumatic or hydraulic solenoid valves, large power contactors, small motors, etc. Moreover, the output requirements of magnetic amplifiers so applied are unusual and much more stringent in comparison with more common applications such as servomotor amplifiers or proportional-control-device amplifiers. This difficulty in application is principally the result of current design practice for solenoid-operated devices. These solenoids, intended to operate from a power line directly or through a step-down transformer, impose upon the amplifier definite requirements which are discussed. Because a complete line of transducer devices is available, the best interim solution (and possibly the best long-range solution to the problem posed) is to adapt the amplifier to the load rather than to redesign the transducer to be compatible with the amplifier."
"THIS paper presents an exact method for solving simultaneous linear algebraic equations which the author believes has many advantages over other procedures. It extends the familiar method of eliminating a single unknown at a time to that of eliminating large groups in a single process. A close relationship to the reduction or “partitioning” of matrices1,2 is also seen to exist. The process is applicable to small sets of equations to be solved by hand or keyboard as well as to larger sets to be solved by digital computers. The method provides an engineer who needs a quick hand solution to a set, for example, of eight equations in eight unknowns, with a simple procedure which involves only elementary algebra and no complicated rules. There are other methods requiring about the same total amount of work 3 ‾6 and some which break up, as does this method, a large set of equations into several smaller sets,7,8 but it is felt that the procedure herein presented is more easily learned and more readily applied by a practical engineer. The method is also presented in matrix form in the Appendix."
"ALTHOUGH a great deal of effort has been expended in the development of analyses of magnetic amplifiers, a completely satisfactory mathematical representation of this dynamic operation, characterized by the soundness of its mathematical basis and by the convenience of its application in analysis and synthesis, has yet to appear. Because of the discrete nature of the operation, the input and output of the magnetic amplifier must be expressed in terms of discrete functions whose variable is the number of half-cycles of the supply voltage frequency. As a result, the dynamic operation must be described by a difference equation which relates input and output."
"RELAYS are the most commonly used electrically operated device in telephone switching systems. A few years ago a radically different design of relay, identified as the “wire spring type,” was introduced for use as a basic component of Bell System equipment. Several articles1,2 have been published that describe the design objectives, features, and operating characteristics associated with this relay. A summary of the manufacturing facilities required for the production of millions of these relays annually has been presented.3"
"THE ADVANTAGES of operating magnetic amplifiers at frequencies higher than the usual 60 and 400 cycles per second (cps) are improved transient response and reduced size and weight. These advantages are very important in the application of magnetic amplifiers to air-borne control systems. This paper presents results of the development of a high-frequency 4,700-cps magnetic servo amplifier used to drive a 400-cps servo motor for military aircraft applications."
"WHEN THE HURWITZ-ROUTH stability criteria are applied to an algebraic polynomial with real coefficients, the existence, or nonexistence, of unstable roots of the polynomial is revealed. However, if the polynomial contains all stable roots, the criteria do not give an indication of the relative stability of the roots. The latter information is frequently desired."
"THE NEED for a highly accurate and reliable d-c voltage reference as part of a Navy Gun Fire-Control System resulted in development of the reference supply described. The customer's requirements imposed severe size and reliability restrictions. The reliability requirements resulted in the choice of magnetic amplifiers for instrument servos of the system. Upon evidence of the feasibility of their use, they were also chosen as logical components for the reference power supply."
"An improved design of 2-stator polyphase watt-hour meter is described in which low rotor speed is utilized to give improved performance over extended load and voltage ranges. Fundamental performance equations are derived to show how this improved performance is attained."
"THE Bell Telephone Laboratories and the Western Electric Company (WE) pioneered the development and use of statistical methods for controlling product quality during the manufacturing process. It was not until the war years that this tool, statistical quality control, received widespread attention throughout industry. During the many years that WE has used statistical quality-control procedures in its manufacturing processes, it has, at the same time, been making an audit, which in reality is a statistical evaluation of the quality of the completed telephone product being shipped from its manufacturing plants. This audit is termed \"quality assurance\" in WE."
"FEW ENGINEERS in North America are familiar with the work of the International Telecommunication Union or are even aware of its existence. This paper discusses the Union; its organization, how it functions, and what it is doing in the field of telephony. It also gives an assessment of the value of this work and an appraisal of its significance to the communication developments in the United States and Canada."
"THE purpose of this paper is twofold: to derive general equations for calculating the currents and inductances associated with each subconductor of a multiple-conductor single-phase or polyphase bus; and to illustrate application of these equations by numerical analysis of several typical busses."
"THE Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) is a public corporation established by act of parliament to carry on a national broadcasting service in Canada. The purpose of the CBC is to provide radio and television service for the whole of the nation; to develop Canadian programs and to bring in selected programs from other countries, to make this service available to as many Canadians as can possibly be reached, giving all as uniform a service as possible in English or in French, the two principal languages in Canada. Among the varied broadcasting systems followed by different countries throughout the world, the Canadian system is unique in its use of privately owned and publicly owned radio and television stations as essential parts of an integrated national operation. The continual need to expand the radiobroadcasting coverage in order to provide service to listeners in the remote areas of Canada, to maintain and improve the existing service, and to keep additional expenditures to a minimum has brought about a changing pattern of technical operation which is discussed in this paper."
"MAGNETIC AMPLIFIERS have become increasingly popular in the last few years, and extensive work has been done to relate their performance to various operating conditions. There has, however, been a distinct tendency to confine the work to fairly well-known basic circuits. These have been so exhaustively studied that there appears to be little hope of greatly improving their operating characteristics by various modifications."
"Measuring transformer core loss by impedance bridge methods offers a number of advantages over conventional wattmeter methods, particularly in automation. Human errors are minimized and test accuracy is improved. The bridge is self-balancing and control can be effected either by manual or punched card programming. Direct readings, high precision, and high output torque make the self-balancing bridge particularly suitable for automation."
"The instrument measures thermal-neutron flux directly and automatically. Measurements are nearly independent of gamma flux and ambient temperature. The method depends upon balancing the temperatures of an electrically heated balancing element and a fission-heated uranium-fueled sensing element. The flux-detector assembly measures only 3/16-inch OD (outside diameter) by 2¼ inches long."
"THE SYNTHESIS of feedback-control systems incorporating magnetic amplifiers has long been hampered by the lack of a really satisfactory way in which to represent the transfer function of the self-saturating magnetic amplifier. Approximations, such as those which represent the magnetic amplifier as being characterized by a volts-per-ampere-turn gain and an L-R time constant, are normally unsatisfactory in anything but the simplest system. In addition, there is a need for a single theory of operation which will bridge the existing gap between the analyses of the conventional magnetic amplifier and those of the “half-cycle response” circuits. It is intended that this paper will fill these needs with an analysis utilizing block-diagram techniques. The use of the block diagram is not only compatible with the usual methods of synthesizing feedback-control systems, but also provides an insight into the mechanics of magnetic amplifier operation which heretofore has been lacking."
"The use of digital computers in physical control systems requires consideration of certain special effects not normally encountered with analog computers, namely, the sampling action and the computation delay. In this paper, the two effects are defined and their relationship to the digital computer program established. It is shown how they may be selected so as to result in program optimization. A special “information-handling efficiency” criterion is developed to provide a basis for defining program quality. A general discussion is given of methods for improving the program quality by taking into account the variations in information contents among the input-output data paths in a program."
"Junctions subjected to pulse currents have a temperature rise that depends on dimensions, materials, and cooling, as much as magnitude, duration, and form of the pulse. Short pulses heat only a part of the body containing the junction; longer pulses permit the heat to penetrate deeper. Short pulses of constant magnitude, or linearly increasing in time, or capacitor discharges, show only a small difference in temperature rise. Experiments conducted with capacitor discharges are easily interpreted for other pulse shapes. For larger pulses, successive approximations are useful: plane heat flow in the junction material, plane flow in the junction and in the main body, spherical diffusion in the body, and simultaneous heating of the body with external cooling. Each approximation has its range of validity, expressed as pulse durations. Approximations overlap between ranges and cover the full span from infinitely short pulses to continuous load. A complete example is discussed."
"Signal-to-noise ratios are derived for an FM (frequency modulated) system in which the r-f (radio-frequency) carrier is strong compared with the noise. The results are derived in a simple way without making use of high-order probability density functions. General formulas are derived for determining the signal-to-noise ratio with periodic modulation or with pulse modulation, and numerical results are given for the special case of a flat symmetrical r-f passband. The effect of a mistuned frequency detector is also taken into account."
"LOW-VOLTAGE, high-current, regulated power supplies, such as are used in transistor computers, present an overload protection problem. In many instances fuses are prohibited because of their susceptibility to damage through vibration or they are unsatisfactory because of other reliability requirements. Circuit breakers may not be placed in the outputs of the regulated supplies because of the regulation they would introduce. Furthermore, from the system standpoint, a protection device in the primary circuit of a number of regulated supplies is desirable so that an overload on any one of the supplies will remove the primary voltage from all the supplies simultaneously. With this circuitry, however, an intolerable overload on one particular supply might cause such a small increase in the total primary currrent that it would be difficult to operate a circuit breaker."
"The satisfactory design of a multichannel radio system requires evaluation of both nonlinear and thermal noise power and the statistical considerations associated with each. It is pointed out that an optimum design can be attained when these noise powers are equal; and since the noise power is greatest in the top channel of the FM (frequency modulation) system, it is sufficient and suitable to establish design criteria based on these premises. It is seen that certain essential performance factors are required for this purpose. These include a measurement of signal/noise ratio using a white-noise test signal, a knowledge of the principal orders of distortion which give rise to the nonlinear noise, and a value for the overload power of the base-band signal. The effect of such factors as carrier power, channel spacing, speech-power distribution, and traffic activity, on the signal/noise ratio is then examined. The basic expressions are also used to establish the total reliability as a function of traffic fluctuations, propagation reliability, and carrier power. Theoretically optimum distributions as well as typically operative distributions are given. In general, systems are of two classes: integrated - those which must conform to the technical requirements of existing or proposed associated networks, and non-integrated systems - those which exist, as it were, independently. Standards are suggested for both these systems. The CCIF (Comite Consultatif International Telephonique) fictitious circuit of reference is a special case of the former and it is concluded that the signal/noise ratio suggested for this reference is some 10 db (decibels) too high. System testing by means of multiple tones is also discussed and some basic requirements related to this method are outlined."
"An illustration of the use of rotating silicon rectifiers in brushless machinery is given in application to generators for the B-58 bomber. The evolution of both oil-cooled and air-cooled rotating rectifier assemblies is presented. The use of silicon rectifiers in this application illustrates their operation under the most extreme environmental conditions. In addition to all the usual salt spray, humidity, and shock requirements of the military specifications, the rectifiers were required to withstand centrifugal forces up to 15,000 g (acceleration of gravity) and oil pressures of 400 pounds per square inch, both at ambient temperatures from 150 to 180 C (degrees centigrade). Cells were required to withstand 175 volts in the reverse direction and 40 amperes in the forward direction. The brushless generators incorporating the rotating rectifiers were designed to deliver 40 and 60 kva (kilovolt-amperes)."
"THE author's company has a continuing operational requirement for approximately 30 portable microwave radio relay systems in the Southern California area These relay systems are used to extend the Bell System broad-band network to temporary service locations in the area. to bridge existing facilities in the event of transmission failure, or to provide semipermanent studio to transmitter links."
"At present there is no generally accepted technique for determining the response of high-voltage dividers to fractional microsecond impulse waves. This paper describes a method which uses a low-voltage cable-type pulse generator and a high-speed oscilloscope as the basic tools. A technique for calibrating the oscilloscope amplifier and the associated input attenuators is described. The effects of such parameters as total divider resistance, divider length, and connecting lead lengths have been investigated. The accuracy and limitations of vertical resistance dividers for measuring steep-front waves are evaluated."
"AS magnetic-amplifier circuitry has evolved from the saturable-reactor circuits to the self-saturating types, the basic limitations on magnetic-amplifier performance are inevitably associated with the nonlinear materials of the cores and rectifiers. The analytic descriptions of the core and rectifier characteristics introduce the critical parameters in a representation of the dynamic operation of the self-saturating types in contrast to the dependence of the saturable-reactor circuits on essentially linear resistance functions.1 Unrealistic assumptions concerning these nonlinear material functions, which under some circumstances might well be idealized, give results which are of limited usefulness to those concerned with the design and analysis of magnetic amplifiers as system components."
"THE MICROWAVE STATIONS operating in the mountainous regions of the Pacific Northwest are subjected to severe winter conditions. Conventional antenna and tower design practices could not be used in the Bonneville Power Administration System."
"Trunk-net-loss deviation, i.e., the difference between measured and expected value of trunk loss, may be considered to be the outcome of a complex process, the result of many variables. In general, a series of such observations forms a statistical distribution. Such distributions have variability, dispersion, or spread. The measure of this is standard deviation, designated as σ′. This variability can be analyzed into two components, one due to findable causes, and one due to chance. If action is taken when chance alone is operating, more variability is introduced than was present previously. If action is not taken when findable causes are operating, unnecessary troubles are allowed to vitiate the process. The Shewhart control chart is a convenient device for detecting findable causes on background of chance causes. Its application to the telephone transmission maintenance problem is discussed."
"THE power output of a conventional fossil-fired power plant is limited by the rate at which fuel can be fed to the boiler. No such convenient limitation is available for a nuclear reactor, which theoretically has no upper limit of power level. After allowance is made for all restrictive negative coefficients of reactivity, the maximum power is still excessive. Clearly, some artificial means of limiting the power is indicated."
"THIS PAPER describes a new technique for the improvement of color television circuits."
"THIS PAPER describes a magnetic inverse-time underfrequency relay unit. It contains a relay which is operated when the frequency of an aircraft alternator drops below 380 cps (cycles per second). The time required for the relay to pick up is an inverse function of how far the frequency is below 380 cps. The complete unit contains a frequency-sensitive circuit which provides a voltage signal proportional to alternator frequency for driving a magnetic amplifier which has a very long time constant. The output of the magnetic amplifier is the coil of the underfrequency relay."
"NONLINEAR problems present a real challenge to any engineer because no completely satisfactory general method of solution has been developed. However, the phasor method outlined herein can be used in the analysis of the steady state of any nonlinear network whose variables can be adequately represented by the sum of a limited number of simple sinusoidal functions of time. The method is the result of an effort to digest some of the classical approaches to the solution of nonlinear problems so they can be applied by means of elementary mathematics and at the same time provide a grasp of the influence of the individual nonlinear elements on the steady state of the nonlinear networks. It has the object of providing a tool for nonlinear analysis and synthesis to engineers who have not had extensive training in that area."
"This paper reports results of a comprehensive study of influence of noise on signaling performance of the major a-c telephone signaling systems in use by the Bell System. A problem exists in the evaluation of signaling circuit performance with regard to characterization of both noise and pulsing accuracy. It appears that a good way to characterize noise is to use the 1% (per cent) point on a cumulative level distribution taken with a level distribution recorder with a 10-ms (millisecond) time constant. Pulsing performance can best be characterized by obtaining a distribution of pulse distortion while pulsing over a noise-disturbed circuit. The 2,600-cycle in-band signaling system performs satisfactorily for signal-to-1%-10-ms-noise ratios of about 0 db (decibels). The N carrier out-of-band system is about 6 db better than the 2,600-cycle system. While comparison is difficult due to different circuit action, the 1,600-cycle in-band system is about 10 db more sensitive to noise than the 2,600-cycle system. Some modification of signal-to-guard ratios in the 2,600-cycle system appears to result in performance which is 6 to 8 db better. Tests showed that compandor action is not detrimental to in-band signaling performance."
"The switching-transistor saturable-reactor d-c to a-c converter is often used to supply alternating current or high-voltage direct current from a low-voltage d-c source. In this application the output voltage varies directly as input voltage, and also varies with load in accordance with the power supply output impedance."
"DURING the past 2 years practically all of the independent telephone manufacturers have been producing newly designed telephone sets. In almost every case it has been stated that the new sets have improved transmission characteristics as well as improvement in other features as compared to their predecessors. The earlier sets had been considered as “standard sets” for transmission design purposes by most large operating companies."
"THIS PAPER is intended to cover the basic requirements which a transmission system must meet to handle a standard color-television signal. Additionally, where possible, the effects produced by departures from the ideal by various parameters will be illustrated. Three broad areas which will be covered include phase, amplitude, and transient requirements."
"METHODS for designing simple saturable-reactor magnetic amplifiers and predicting their performance on the basis of observed phenomena have been known for some time. However, the literature in the field is still lacking a complete analysis of saturable-reactor circuitry on the basis of the mechanics of operation. Ramey1 approached the problem of saturable-reactor analysis from a novel point of view. The theory and relationships developed in his paper established a firm foundation for the understanding of the amplifier operation. This paper utilizes the volt-second approach developed by Ramey to analyze completely the simple series saturable-reactor circuit in both its transient and steady states."
"STYROFLEX coaxial cable was developed to meet the demand for a uniform, low-loss cable which could be supplied in long lengths, without joints. Prior to the advent of styroflex, low attenuation in conjunction with high velocity of propagation were attainable only with rigid line or wave guide in short sections joined together."
"This paper describes a method for the accurate computation of the operating characteristics of elecromagnets, such as used in relays and other electromechanical devices. The dynamic solution involves the use of techniques applicable to digital computers. The evaluation of the computer solutions offers a means of obtaining the optimum magnet design for a given device. The method eliminates the need for building successive models for testing and evaluation."
"CONSIDERABLE information has been published on the properties of ferroelectric materials1‾4 and their use in digital memory devices has been described.5,6 It is the purpose of this paper to discuss the output signals from switched and unswitched ferroelectric storage capacitors, to treat the storage capacitor as a circuit element by the introduction of an equivalent circuit, and to present methods and several circuits by which the inherent signal-to-noise ratio can be improved."
"THE rapidly expanding need for communications felt by United Gas Pipe Line Company indicated an examination of the new communication medium, microwave relay. Work by Bullington,1 Crawford and Jakes,2 Durkee,3 Millar and Byam,4 Thompson,5 and others, provided valuable information for system planning and operation in most areas of the United States. In the Gulf South area, locale of the company's operations, no such information was available. Rumors, difficult to prove or disprove, were current concerning the propagation difficulties encountered by early systems in the area. In this almost subtropical section of the country, humidity variations were known to be high. Temperature inversion also had to be considered. Previous observations of very-high-frequency systems and a test at 960 mc (megacycles) indicated the possibility of unusual conditions at the higher frequencies of 2,000 and 6,700 mc."
"THE GROWTH of carrier systems in the United States may be likened to the growth of the country's highways. Highways originally were built between the outskirts of cities to cope with the intercity traffic; so were carrier systems. When he traveled through a city, a motorist had to leave the highway and become submerged in local traffic until he could make connection to the next highway heading out of the city. Likewise, if carrier channels were to pass through a city, they had to become local voice drops first before they could be reinserted into another carrier system and passed on to the next city."
"It has been a common assumption that buried telephone cables are practically free from the destructive effects of lightning, particularly intercity cables which have no intermediate terminals or connections to local subscriber installations along the route of the buried section. Such cables in some areas, however, have been found to be relatively vulnerable to damage from lightning strokes occurring along the route of cables. To avoid such damage various methods have been employed. One method has been to plow shield wires in the ground above the location of the cables. Whether or not such protection is provided is customarily based on balancing the cost of such measures against the expectancy of lightning strokes per year along the respective route, and the anticipated cost of repairs and interruptions entailed. This paper describes a situation where the anticipated troubles did not appear to warrant the cost of the initial installation of shield wires, but later experience indicated the need for some remedial measures. The measure adopted consisted of the installations of full-count carbon gap protection at various intervals along the cable route."
"DURING the last 40 years a great background and fund of knowledge has developed in the field of telephone switching. Constant improvement in available devices has resulted in an increased scope of application. The field has almost reached a point of perfection as an art and is now rapidly entering a more scientific era."
"A NEW video transmission system known as A2A has recently been developed for use on local wire channels in television network service. The A2A system provides video transmission for frequencies up to 4.5 mc (megacycles) and to distances of approximately 10 miles over balanced cable pairs designed for the purpose. This paper will describe the system from a field point of view, showing typical applications and performance and operating considerations."
"IN RECENT YEARS there has been a large increase in the number of communication, telemetering, pilot-wire relay, and other control circuits required by power utilities in Canada. Service continuity on these circuits is of prime importance, and in many cases neutralizing transformers are required to maintain this continuity and to prevent damage to the circuits or terminal apparatus due to ground potential rise."
"WITH the rapid expansion of dial operation on toll telephone calls since the end of the last war, automatic switching machines have taken over many of the functions previously performed by operators on convenient toll switchboards. One of the results of this mechanization, or perhaps one of the prerequisites for its economic justification, was that a varying number of toll circuit links, from one to eight, may be used to build up a connection between two terminal points. It should be understood that the number of links may vary within these limits on different occasions, even between the same two end points and on the same type of calls, at the discretion of the machines and governed automatically by the prevailing traffic conditions. Furthermore, in addition to the maximum of eight links in a toll connection, there will usually be at least one more link at each end, connecting the toll offices with the local offices serving the calling and called subscribers, and there will always be one more link at each end connecting the subscriber's telephone with its local office. This situation differs considerably from that which existed with previously used methods of toll switching; it introduces new transmission problems requiring new engineering solutions."
"IN THE past year or two, the culmination of intensive efforts in the development of silicon materials and devices has been the introduction of practical silicon rectifiers to the electrical industry. The widespread use of such rectifiers may be expected in the coming years. At the moment, there appears to be no competitor in the range of operating temperatures below 200 C (degrees centigrade)."
"THE PURPOSE of this paper is to describe some of the considerations involved in designing a transistorized summing amplifier which could be used as a building block in a carrier-frequency analogue computer. The basic design philosophy was necessitated by the quality of the transistors commercially available at the start of the development work in mid-1954. Typical transistors are the early type 2N34 and the later type 2N109."
"GERMANIUM and silicon P-N junctions are becoming well known for their very nearly ideal combination of efficiency, flexibility, and reliability factors. Despite their high efficiency, the small internal losses of this type of rectifier cell are the chief criterion for rating and application."
"A SIMPLE METHOD is presented for the design of a power transformer which does not require any trial-and error-calculations. Optimum wire gauges for each winding to minimize losses, and optimum cores made of commercially available laminations, can be easily obtained. The method is suitable for power transformers operating at any frequency where stray capacitative and inductive effects are negligible, having one or more secondary windings, and rated up to 500 volt-amperes."
"THE PURPOSE of this paper is two fold: to determine by the method of subareas the charge distribution and capacitance of a rectangular area; and to advance therefrom a universal curve which furnishes accurate values of the capacitance of a rectangular area of any specified dimensions. From well-known theory, rigorous determination of these electrical quantities hinges on determination of the corresponding electrostatic potential function V. However, determination of the function for a specified plane area is of such mathematical difficulty that solution to date has been achieved for only one plane area, the elliptical disk of which the circular disk is a special case. In consequence, explicit equations for the charge distribution and electrical capacitance are known only for these two plane areas. However, need of accurate knowledge of the capacitance of a rectangular plane area, or of a certain parameter1 equal in magnitude to the capacitance, occurs in numerous physical problems. (Thus, the normal force R on a thin rectangular plate moving in the direction of its normal with a velocity V through a liquid of viscosity μ is R = 8πμCV, where C is a parameter equal to the capacitance of a rectangular planar conductor of the same dimensions as the thin plate.) To cite an example of much current interest in electrical engineering, a knowledge of the capacitance of rectangular plates is required in the rational design of grounding systems for high-voltage power systems.2–4 Accordingly, it is obviously most desirable to have in hand curves which readily afford values of the capacitance with accuracy sufficient for design purposes. Precisely such a set of curves is advanced in this paper, the essential content of which may be summarized as follows: The method of subareas, earlier formulated and used by the authors to obtain excellent approximate solutions of the difficult, long-standing problems of determination of the capacitance and charge distribution of a plane annulus5 and a cube,6,7 is recast to enable solution of the present problem. Therewith equations for the capacitance and charge distribution of an arbitrarily dimensional rectangular area are formulated; and the solutions of these equations, as effected through use of International Business Machines equipment, are then utilized to plot a universal curve of capacitance versus width/height from which can be read the capacitance of any specified rectangular area with sufficient accuracy for most design purposes. Corroborative of the correctness of the solution in general, this curve falls within the narrow upper and lower bounds to be calculated from the known expressions for the capacitances of the circumscribed and inscribed ellipses. Finally, comparison of this universal curve with the corresponding curve plotted from Howe'8 wellknown and much used expression for the approximate capacitance of a rectangular area reveals that this expression yields values in considerable error over much of the range of w/h (width/height)."
"A method is developed for converting between the units and the equations in different systems of units. The appearance or nonappearance of 4л as a constant of proportionality in Maxwell's equations may be attributed to switching the unit of solid angle between sphere and steradian. Treatment of angle as a dimension leads to a convenient and systematic way of conversion between different systems."
"Nonlinear circuits are now widely used in many control regulation systems or other industrial applications. Most of the solutions of such circuits have been based on either the step-by-step or successive approximation methods which do not always lead to the correct results, except in some special cases. Also, such calculations are complex so that generally the first approximation only is adopted. In this paper a new method for attacking nonlinear problems is suggested. By a certain representation of the nonlinear given relation the amount of work is greatly reduced and the calculations can even be carried out by an ordinary slide rule. According to the author's knowledge, the solution for the case of iron-cored oscillatory circuits and similar cases when the supply frequency, current or voltage, contains considerable harmonics is obtained for the first time. With respect to hysteresis action a simplified solution is given. Experimental results are in good agreement with the theoretical solutions. Harmonics up to the fifth are the only ones used herein to represent the required results. Such representations can be carried out with any number of harmonics by similar process."
"A means has been found to increase the arc resistance of certain organic materials which otherwise are inferior in this property. By incorporating any of a number of inorganic submicron refractory fillers, the American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM) arc resistance of phenolic and substituted phenolic molding compounds and a number of non-arc-resistant finishes can be greatly increased. Both the percentage and the particle size of the filler added are important factors. Data are presented describing the effect on arc resistance of these variables. A proposed mechanism presenting a possible explanation for the effects described in this paper is presented."
"Increased usage of radio-teletypewriter communication has widened the demand for facilities for multiplexing teletypewriter channels on a single radio channel, for economy of frequency spectrum and equipment. Many of the potential applications of multiplex require smaller and lighter equipment than heretofore available, with unusually high reliability. This paper describes a developmental time-division multiplex equipment which, through the use of transistors, has only 20 per cent of the volume, 20 per cent of the weight, and 5 per cent of the power consumption of the equivalent electron-tube set now in service. The set is packaged for maximum operating convenience and serviceability in the field."
"Saturable reactors can be used to produce narrow pulses from a periodic supply without the use of electron tubes. An increasingly popular circuit for producing pulses is known as the Melville Line. The original paper1 describing the circuit is an excellent treatise on the theory of the circuit and includes some practical considerations. Another paper2 presents a method of determining the number of stages in the circuit for minimum total core volume. There are limitations to the circuit which are determined by core characteristics. Also, by use of the relations developed, a designer can determine whether or not C cores can be substituted for toroidal cores to simplify winding and insulating."
"RECENT DEVELOPMENTS in the design of electronic digital computers have suggested the possibility of translating languages by machine, but when one tries to write a good translation program for a computer, one finds that there is much to be learned about language. For this reason, no program has yet been written by which a computer could translate usefully; but a number of people have been challenged by the problem of filling in the gaps in present knowledge about language and translation.1,2"
"IN GENERAL, the design of automatic feedback control devices starts with two sets of data: 1. The specifications of the closed-loop performance such as the steady-state errors or error constants, minimum speed and maximum overshoot of the transient, bandwidth, etc., and 2. The known characteristics of physically existing components, combined into a plant which must become a part of the open loop of the control system."
"Design considerations of wide-band r-f (radio-frequency) transformers operating over a frequency range of 10 to 100 mc (megacycles) are reviewed. The complete basic equivalent circuit representation of transformers must be used in the analysis of the input impedance characteristics. A synthesized equivalent network is used in determining the critical transformer parameters. Experimental data and characteristics of a 25-watt, 20-to 70-megacycle unit are presented."
"Closer rapport between the mathematician and the communications engineer would permit information theory to be exploited more effectively. Improvement in the number and type of educational courses, symposia, and publications is recommended. Some examples are discussed of gaps in the theory which now handicap its application."
"An exact method for analysis of sampled-data systems with finite pulse width is presented. The results make it possible to obtain the output of such systems in a closed form, as a continuous function of time, and without recourse to any approximations. (The closed form is that which does not involve summation of series.) The analysis is based on introducing a new transform method, analogous to the z-transform, except that the actual pulse width and pulse shape are considered. This is called the p-transform where p denotes pulse width. Furthermore, by utilizing the modified z-transform, a method for obtaining the inverse Laplace transform of functions involving both ϵTs and s is developed. This technique has been advantageously applied to evaluate the inverse p-transform in a closed form. (The term “modified z-transform” was introduced in reference 1.) The limiting cases of the p-transform are investigated. It is concluded that the p-transformation method provides a powerful technique for analysis of sampled-data systems with finite pulse width."
"THE THEORETICAL writings of Storm1-3 on magnetic amplifiers have deservedly received much attention. The references given to his work cite particularly his theory of the series-connected saturable reactor, to be called here the \"series amplifier.\" It is assumed in the following that the reader is familiar with Storm's analysis of the series amplifier with comparatively low and comparatively high control-circuit resistance."
"SINCE THE DEVELOPMENT of large-area germanium rectifier cells in 1952, over 20,000 kw of d-c power have been installed and are in service. An equally large amount of germanium rectifier units for converting alternating current to direct current are on order with the various manufacturers of this type of equipment. The first commercial germanium rectifier units used a germanium rectifier stack as shown in Fig. 1. The germanium rectifier cell was sealed with lacquer, making it partially impervious to moisture and atmosphere. This stack was then immersed in a tank containing perchlorethylene and connected with other stacks to form a number of 3-phase bridge rectifiers. The tray was then cooled by running tap water through a thin copper tube surrounding the germanium rectifier stacks. Later, the germanium rectifier stacks were installed in a tank and the perchlorethylene recirculated through several tanks and a water-to-perchlorethylene heat exchanger, to remove the losses from the germanium rectifier stacks. A recent tray using this construction is shown in Fig. 2 which forms part of a 65-volt d-c unit at 15,000 amperes."
"THE PAPERS that follow describe the design, manufacture, and installation of the first transatlantic telephone cable system in all its component parts, including the connecting microwave radio-relay system in Nova Scotia. The purpose of this introduction is to set the scene in which this project was undertaken and to discuss the technical contribution it has made to the development of world communications."
"The transatlantic telephone cable system was designed as a link connecting continent-wide communication networks on the two sides of the Atlantic. The technical planning of the system and the objectives set up so that this role would be fulfilled, are the principal subjects of this paper. Typical performance characteristics illustrate the high degree with which the objectives have been realized. Optimum application of the experience of the British Post Office with rigid repeaters and the Bell System with flexible repeaters, together with close cooperation among the administrations, have played a large part in achieving the objectives."
"Specific aspects of the transatlantic cable system are covered in companion papers. The purpose here is to examine the design and performance of the North Atlantic link, including consideration of factors governing the choice of features, a description of the operational design of the facility, and an outline of those measures available for future application in the event that faults or aging require corrective action."
"Some of the considerations governing the electrical and mechanical design of flexible repeaters and their component apparatus are discussed in this paper. The discussion includes description of the feedback amplifier and the sea-pressure resisting container that surrounds it. Examples are given of some of the extraordinary measures taken to ensure continuous performance in service."
"Production of the submarine telephone cable repeaters, designed to have a minimum trouble-free life of 20 years, required many new and refined manufacturing procedures. Care in the selection and training of personnel, manufacturing environment, inspection, and testing, were of great importance in the successful attainment of the ultimate objective. Although quality of product has always been of major significance in Western Electric Company manufacture, building electronic equipment for use at the bottom of the ocean, where maintenance is impossible and replacement of apparatus extremely expensive, required unusual manufacturing methods."
"Synopsis. Precise regulation of the direct current which provides power for the undersea repeaters in the new transatlantic telephone cable is necessary to maintain proper transmission levels and to assure maximum repeater tube life. The highest possible degree of protection is needed against excessive currents and voltages under a wide variety of possible fault conditions. Furthermore, to minimize the dielectric stresses, a double-ended series-aiding power feed must be used, and the balance of these applied voltages must be maintained despite substantial earth potentials. This paper describes the design features which were employed to attain these objectives simultaneously, while eliminating, for all practical purposes, any possibility of even a brief system outage because of power failure."
"Electron tubes for use in repeatered underwater telephone cable systems must be capable of operating for many years with a reasonable probability of proper functioning. In the new transatlantic telephone cable system the section of the cable between Nova Scotia and Newfoundland contains repeaters developed by the British Post Office Research Station at Dollis Hill. These repeaters are built around the type-6P12 tube developed at that research station. The repeaters contained in the section of the cable system between Newfoundland and Scotland are of Bell System design and depend on the 175HQ tube developed at Bell Telephone Laboratories. In this paper the philosophy of repeater and tube design is discussed, and the fundamental reasons for arriving at quite different tube designs are pointed out. Some of the tube development problems and the features introduced to eliminate potential difficulties are described. Electrical characteristics for the two types and life test data are presented. Fabrication and selection problems are outlined and reliability prospects are discussed."
"The transatlantic cable project required that two repeatered cables be laid in the deep-water crossing between Newfoundland and Scotland, and one across the shallower waters of Cabot Strait. The same structure was adopted for the cables laid in the two locations."
"The design and engineering of the section of the transatlantic cable system between Newfoundland and Nova Scotia was the responsibility of the British Post Office. Since the transmission objectives for this link were agreed upon in relation to the over-all objectives, this paper was written to show how these were translated into system and equipment design, and to demonstrate how the objectives were realized."
"The Newfoundland-Nova Scotia cable required the provision of 16 submerged repeaters each transmitting 60 circuits in the bands 20 to 260 kc from Newfoundland to Nova Scotia, and 312 to 552 kc in the opposite direction. This paper deals with the design and production of these repeaters. Each repeater has a gain of 60 db (decibels) at 552 kc, and the amplifier consists of two forward amplifying paths with a common feedback network. Reliability is of paramount importance, and production was carried out in an air-conditioned building with meticulous attention to cleanliness and to very rigid manufacturing and testing specifications. The electrical unit is contained in a rigid pressure housing 9 feet long and 10 inches in diameter with the sea cables connected to an armor clamp and a cable gland at each end. A submerged equalizer was provided near the middle of the sea crossing."
"Design engineers now have available the results of many years of operating experience of submerged-repeater systems supplied from electronic, electromagnetic, and rotary-machine power equipments. To meet the unusually high standards of reliability required for the transatlantic telephone system, a scheme has been evolved that is a combination of new developments and the best features of previous methods. Electronic electromagnetic equipment forms the basis of an automatic no-break system requiring little routine maintenance."
"The repeatered submarine cables which form the backbone of the transatlantic telephone cable project were installed during the good-weather periods of 1955 and 1956. This paper considers the factors entering into the selection of the routes, describes the planning and execution of the laying task and presents a few observations on the human side of the venture. It also covers briefly the routing of some 55 nautical miles of repeatered submarine-type cable which were trenched in across the neck of the Burin Peninsula in Newfoundland to connect the Terrenceville submarine terminus with the cable station at Clarenville."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the title page of this issue of the periodical."
"THE purpose of this paper is to present several keyed, phase-sensitive demodulator circuits in which saturable reactors, transistors, and silicon diodes are used in place of vacuum, tubes to obtain increased reliability and ruggedness, small physical size (see Fig. 1), and low noise level."
"WHERE a large number of telephone subscriber lines are to be served, it is possible to show statistically that only a small percentage of them will require service at a given interval. Telephone operating companies have used this fact to economic advantage in providing central office switching equipment, by concentrating the traffic from large groups of lines into a much smaller number of primary switching trunks. Generally speaking, 100 lines may normally be served with only from 10 to 15 primary trunks without degrading service beyond the point where one call in one hundred will encounter an appreciable delay, so that the economy of this approach is obvious."
"The mechanism of amplification of the self-saturating magnetic amplifier in general consists of its flux control of the magnetic core. To control the flux level in the core, the core loss must be supplied from the control circuit during the control or reset half-cycle of the specific core. Therefore the correlation of input power and reset core loss is very important. (Here the reset core loss means the portion of the core loss consumed during the control or reset half-cycle of the core.) In the case of the full-wave magnetic amplifier circuit, this relation has been discussed in the literature;1 however, the case of the half-wave magnetic amplifier has not received as detailed consideration. In this paper the authors demonstrate the correlation between the input power and the reset core loss utilizing a simplified method of circuit analysis. Experimental procedure derived from the simplified analysis verify the analytical conclusions. The existence of an optimum condition is shown. The optimum requires the resistance of the eontrol voltage source and the effective resistance of the magnetic core during the resetting interval to be matched. This condition permits achievement of minimum input power."
"IN MAGNETIC focusing of electron beams, the field must be rectilinear and substantially uniform. Rectilinearity is an especially important requirement for traveling-wave tube focusing because small deviations between the magnetic-field and electron-beam axes result in appreciable electron-current interception within the tube. Since the magnetic field cannot be made strictly uniform, it is required to have an axis of symmetry coincident with the mechanical axis of the magnetic structure. The mechanical axis is a convenient reference axis for locating the electron-beam axis. The percentage transmission of electron-beam current through the traveling-wave tube is a measure of the degree of focusing."
"This paper discusses half-wave and full-wave phase discriminators which use transistors and diodes to produce phase-sensitive d-c output capable of driving a magnetic amplifier or energizing relays, heating coils, and hydraulic valves. An analysis of the operating characteristics of the transistor in discriminator circuitry is also included, together with a discussion of power considerations and limitations."
"THIS PAPER describes the communication facilities in the Lower St. Lawrence region of the Province of Quebec, Canada. An outline is given of the geography of the region which the communication system serves."
"This paper is concerned with the application of differential-feedback circuitry to push-pull self-balancing magnetic amplifiers in order to obtain extreme stability and freedom from zero drift with a minimum of core matching and component selection. It describes a 60-cycle magnetic instrument amplifier particularly well suited for extending the range of application of a standard-type moving-coil ink recorder and gives the results of various measurements and actual performance characteristics. This amplifier acts as an operational amplifier and is suitable for various applications in instrumentation, telemetering, automatic control, and analog-computer technique."
"THE OPERATION of many types of storage tubes depends upon intensity modulation of an electron beam by an electrostatic charge on an insulator layer.3‾7 As early as 1927, Dr. Farnsworth suggested the method as a means to increase brightness in cathode-ray tubes for television."
"THE PRINCIPAL business of the telephone industry is to provide circuits and switching arrangements so that people who are physically separated can talk to each other. It also is in the business of transmitting other forms of information (teletypewriter, data, radio programs, television, etc.) from one place to another. The things which affect talking and transmitting other information are called “transmission.”1, 2"
"ONE way to combat the effects of multiple-path fading of microwave radio signals is to use diversity reception.1, 2 This paper presents some of the transmission results obtained with a 2-frequency diversity system supplied by Motorola, Inc., to the Northwestern Bell Telephone Company and installed in North Dakota. An analysis of the effect of an appreciable diversity-switching differential is also included."
"THE NATION-WIDE toll-dialing network is creating an increasing demand for more toll circuits. The demand may be satisfied by the addition of any of several types of facilities if they conform to the over-all network requirements."
"THE Lincoln Laboratory and International Business Machines Corporation (IBM) have, during the past 3 years, worked out the design for a new digital computer which is the central component of a large-scale real-time system. In this system, data from many sources are fed automatically into the computer where they are processed under programmed control. A complete compilation of the real-time situation is made by the computer and presented to operators by means of a special display system. The computer automatically generates control commands for the external environment in response to corrections and command information fed into it by the operators."
"The widespread use of the saturable-core transformer as a push-pull magnetic amplifier in servomechanism systems is well known. This amplifier is analyzed by the methods of Storm1 to obtain the basic performance equations and to gain a broad insight into the circuit operation. The analysis is predicated on the free flow of even harmonics, that is, low control-circuit impedance, and deals with the resistive load case. Under these conditions two modes of operation are found; further, the influence of core loss and primary resistance on gain becomes apparent. From this analysis ideal graphs are prepared which show the nature of circuit operation for changes in signal, line voltage, frequency, and loading. The resulting expressions for gain, together with the boundaries of circuit operation, form a useful background in component design, quality control, and system analysis."
"It is shown that the upper limits of output power of a-c vacuum-tube and transistor amplifiers are determined by certain characteristic device values which depend on their maximum voltage, current, and power dissipation."
"THIS is the second of a series of papers1 dealing with the phenomena accompanying discharges resulting from spark-over at low voltages between metallic electrodes in a liquid dielectric. These phenomena are of particular concern because of developments in the art of electric-spark machining2 in which the effects of such discharges are used in the shaping of materials."
"THE VALUE of radio communications in all classes of mobile applications has caused a phenomenal increase in the number of radio stations licensed in these vital services. This ever-increasing usage of frequencies continues to demonstrate the inadequacy of the available number of usable channels."
"BALLAST RESISTORS, when required with conventional d-c power supplies, can be eliminated by designing appropriate terminal load characteristics directly into “virtual-ballast” power supplies. There are several ways in which this might be done. One method, the inductive-ballast power supply, is presented in this paper. It permits operation at close to 100-per-cent efficiency and, moreover, places minimal stress on circuit components. This type of supply may therefore be considerably smaller, less expensive, and more efficient than its conventional equivalent."
"After eight years of research, it is clear that ionized atmospheres have demonstrable effects on human beings as well as on animals. An explanation of these effects has been sought more recently at the cellular level where results to date show significant changes. Investigation is proceeding on all levels for the purpose of clarifying results already observed and establishing dosage and other techniques which will make artificial ionization a valuable resource for human well-being."
"Magnetic amplifiers are, similar to thyratrons, suitable for adjustable-voltage drives of d-c motors. While the operation with discontinuous armature current affects the motor characteristics undesirably, it offers in the lower power range an important economical advantage. After a discussion of the open-loop characteristics of the drive, the design of a medium-accuracy (5-per-cent) speed-control system for the fractional- and integer-horsepower range is explained where utmost simplicity and the use of inexpensive components are considered important design factors. Performance characteristics are given."
"This paper describes theoretical and experimental investigations of simultaneous pulled oscillations generated in a triode oscillator incorporating two oscillatory circuits. It also includes a physical explanation of pulled oscillations generated in nonlinear oscillatory systems."
"THE FIRST large-scale use of flowmeters based on the conservation of momentum principle was employed in the B-47 airplane to measure fuel flow rates to the jet engines. This paper describes a flowmeter for gases which, although operating on the same basic principle, uses a retarding disk and register to integrate the flow rate. This flowmeter will directly measure the mass, or standard cubic feet, of gas consumed. It is much smaller and lighter in weight than conventional meters used for this purpose and may prove to be a most important contribution to the gas measuring industry. The basic principles of gas measurement have remained unchanged since 1844. Progress in the art has been largely confined to improved materials. It is the purpose of this paper to report on the preliminary development of the flowmeter, to discuss principles of operation, and to review test results obtained on the experimental sample."
"HISTORICALLY, both the power and telephone operating companies throughout the country have provided distribution facilities into residential areas by means of aerial construction. This has followed logically from the fact that aerial construction has been the most economical type of facility available to provide such services."
"THE MATERIALS Subcommittee of the AIEE Magnetic Amplifier Committee was organized principally to set up standards and to encourage the interchange of information on materials used in conjunction with magnetic amplifiers. One of the projects undertaken by the Subcommittee has been the standardization of magnetic tape-wound toroidal-core sizes. To accomplish this objective, a separate Working Group was formed in Nov. 1953 and charged with the responsibility of developing a list of recommended standard nominal sizes for tape-wound toroidal cores. The proposed standards in this report were established by the working group in June 1956, approved by the Materials Subcommittee in July 1956, and adopted by the AIEE Magnetic Amplifier Committee in Nov. 1956."
"THIS PAPER describes a saturable reactor circuit from which pulses of the subharmonic order of the frequency of the applied voltage are produced. The basic idea consists of resetting the flux in the core of a half-wave self-saturating magnetic amplifier by means of a discharge current from a capacitor which has been previously charged during the saturation period. The effect of the discharge current can be adjusted by varying a series resistor so that it will last for a desired number of cycles before the reactor can be saturated again. In this paper, the mechanism of operation of such circuitry is explained and experimental results are given using 60-cycle frequency. The results are partly checked by analysis. This device, because of its simplicity, could be useful as a subharmonic generator or a frequency divider provided that the input frequency is known."
"MOST of the transmission methods used today are rather elementary. The signal to be transmitted is made to vary the amplitude or phase of a sine wave, or perhaps the height, width, or position of a pulse. The variation is continuous, and at each repeater some noise, cross-talk or distortion is added to the signal, causing some deterioration in quality. By the time the signal has gone through hundreds of repeaters, it is a miracle that there is any quality left."
"The Bell System Speakerphone provides hands-free telephony. It permits the telephone customer to receive over a loudspeaker and to transmit over a microphone located a convenient distance away. The techniques and components employed in the design of the Speakerphone are described. A survey of customer reactions to this type of telephone set indicates that 90 per cent are fairly or entirely satisfied with its performance."
"THE USE of dynamically faster drives in aircraft electric-power-generating systems precludes the assumption formerly made in computer studies of these systems that the electrical transient is much faster than the mechanical transient. Furthermore, the representation of alternators for parallel operation introduces new conceptual problems not formerly encountered in representing the alternator for isolated operation. In this paper, the basic circuit equations developed by Park are used to describe the alternator. An additional form is also used so that the effect of saturation is approximated. The usual procedure of breaking the system into its simplest units for system studies is followed in this presentation. The representations of the constraints imposed by the interconnection of the units are separated from the units themselves."
"IT IS the purpose of this paper to present a method of circuit analysis which is simpler in form and can be more readily adapted to calculation than that of the conventional loop-voltage and nodal-current analyses. The method presented here is developed specifically for application to networks composed of L-sections in tandem. It is desired that relations between any two voltages in the circuit be obtained from inspection of the circuit; also, that similar relations be obtained for any two loop currents. Since the approach to the development of the method is purely empirical, the conclusions are drawn inductively. The results are derived directly through the use of Maxwell and Kirchoff rules of circuit analysis.1, 2"
"A procedure for the analysis of the trigger sensitivity and of the switching speed of flip-flops of second order is developed. In particular the phase plane topology is investigated and the transition time evaluated. The method is applied first to a system with the simplest possible differential equation, then extended to a point contact emitter input transistor flip-flop."
"Subject to the usual assumption of component linearity, the operational calculus, i.e., the Laplace transformation, is applied to the analysis of the dynamic response of the industrial self-balancing potentiometer. Transient response and frequency response of the system are considered. It is established, however, that the system is primarily velocity limited. For large amplitude signals which cause the system to depart from the linear condition, a method for prediction of approximate frequency response is given."
"TIME-DIVISION multiplex has provided the most efficient utilization of trunk telegraph circuits and, over the decades that have passed since Baudot developed the first really practical method, inventors and engineers have devoted a great deal of thought and research to the problem of increasing, the efficiency, effectiveness, and scope of multiplex operation."
"A SPECIFIC and a general objective are jointly pursued by this paper. The specific aim is the development of a describing function1 to represent the principal nonlinearities occurring in single-stage 4-port electrohydraulic control valves of the type sketched in Fig. 1. For maximum usefulness of the describing function towards this specific objective, it is expressed in a generalized and dimensionless form. Consequently it is applicable to the analysis or design of electrohydraulic control valves for any individual application. Precalculated curves reduce to very reasonable amounts the labor of computing the describing function for a given valve."
"THIS PAPER presents summary results of analog computer studies of electrohydraulic control valves. All principal nonlinearities associated with this type of control valve as well as nonlinearities common to actuators and inertia-type loads were instrumented on the analog computer."
"THE Kelvin or double bridge is considered as the standard type of bridge for the measurement of very low-resistance values and, more specifically, where 4-terminal resistances are used. Typical examples are in the comparison of shunts which are basically 4-terminal resistors and in the measurement of conductivity where the current terminals are at the ends of the wire or bar under consideration, and the millivolt terminals are between those current terminals.1‾3"
"The use of a simple hands-free telephone set with distant talking and loudspeaker reception introduces transmission degradation not encountered with hand-set usage. Proper usage and good acoustic surroundings reduce these impairments to a point where satisfactory transmission is obtained on a large percentage of calls in today's plant which is designed to have transmission margin on a good proportion of all calls. There are several potentialities for improving the hands-free telephone set but it is not yet clear whether or not the gain will justify the added complexity or the added restrictions placed on the user. It is to be expected that very excellent performance could be obtained from a unit such as a booth which combines optimum instrument design with favorable environment."
"THE HYDRO-ELECTRIC Power Commission of Ontario has recently developed and constructed an automatic data processor for a new generating station at Niagara Falls. Since the design employs new techniques which may have application in fields outside the power industry, a detailed description of the key features is offered in this paper."
"AMONG THE UTILITIES which contribute to good standard of living, the telephone stands in prominence, playing a vital role in the activities of many people. The ease of communication provided by the telephone aids and promotes progress in every phase of human endeavor. Since its invention much work has been done to improve the telephone and to make it adaptable for new communication services. Recent advances in the electronics art, resulting in component improvement and miniaturization, provide powerful means for furthering the improvement of the telephone. One example of telephone adaptation for rendering a novel service is the development of a hands-free telephone, also known as a loudspeaking telephone."
"WITH the electrical industry's increase in size and importance throughout the United States, a corresponding increase occurs in applications for electric direct-acting recording instruments. As power levels become larger, it becomes increasingly important to improve their control and application. Recording instruments possess the valuable feature of showing in permanent form the history of a given circuit. From this history, the future performance of the circuit can be predicted."
"AN industrial process is usually controlled by individually controlling all of its significant variables such as temperatures, pressures, and flows. The intelligence which establishes an optimum operation of the process must then be defined in terms of these variables."
"THE MEASUREMENT of the complex dielectric constant of very-high-dielectric-constant materials at microwave frequencies is considerably more difficult than the measurement of materials with a low dielectric constant. The reason for this can be best illustrated by consideration of a commonly used method of measuring dielectric constant at microwave frequencies which is called the short-circuited line method. The equipment used is shown in Fig. 1.1,2 The test sample is placed against a fixed short circuit, and the voltage standing wave ratio (VSWR) and location of the voltage minimum are measured. The complex dielectric constant can be calculated from these measurements. This method is satisfactory for materials where the real dielectric constant is relatively low, but poses serious difficulties for materials where the real dielectric constant is very high. In discussing the reasons for the difficulties, low-loss samples and high-loss samples will be considered separately."
"ANALYSES of magnetic amplifier systems commonly suffer from a recognized weakness; the magnetic behavior of the cores is approximated by more or less extreme idealizations. Descriptions of amplifier performance therefore, are seldom better than semi-qualitative, and those analyses, even though valuable for the understanding of the operation of the various circuits, may not satisfy the more specific needs of the designer who is interested in quantitative predictions. In fact, even without direct experience in the field, one cannot fail to detect a discrepancy between the acceptance of excessively simplified representations of core behavior in the analyses and the need for increasingly refined core-testing procedures that seems to be felt in industrial amplifier production."
"RECENTLY the behavior of the full-wave magnetic amplifier was analyzed in the case of the very low control circuit resistance and the correlation between the instantaneous hysteresis loop and the control characteristics was demonstrated.1 Concerning the transient behavior, the approach described in the literature1, 2 permits computation of an equivalent time constant. This concept may be applied to the case of the “slow transient.” However, when the control circuit resistance is large, the approach loses its meaning."
"FOR MANY YEARS, the range of current-indicating instruments at power frequencies has been extended by the use of current transformers. A particularly convenient method is that in which the transformer consists of a secondary winding on a split toroidal core that can be clamped around the conductor whose current is to be measured. This technique suggests a similar device for measuring small currents at audio and radio frequencies: an instrument consisting of a small clamp-type magnetic probe and suitable means for amplifying the output of the probe to operate an indicating meter or an oscilloscope. Such an instrument is complementary to the a-c voltmeter in the audio- and radio-frequency range and has obvious utility in experimental work; this paper will demonstrate its realization."
"ENGINEERING measurements of electric circuit quantities such as voltage, current, power, energy, and wave shapes have, for the steady-state conditions including both non varying quantities and recurring waves, been made with general satisfaction, through steadily improving designs of voltmeters, ammeters, wattmeters, and oscillographs. These are measurements of the quantities directly pertinent to the purposes for which the circuitry was designed. All circuitry, however, is also unintentionally subjected to electric transients when steady-state levels are changed and when abnormal electrifications or connections occur. These are mainly switching, lightning, and insulation failure transients and they involve voltage and current variations where fractions of a microsecond sometimes become important because of the high magnitudes of the voltages and currents involved."
"THE transistor NOR circuit was introduced because of the desire to have a single logic element which would combine well in logic configurations with a minimum of concern for matching and element loading. A NOR element has a signal output only if there are no input signals, and consequently has no output if any input signal is present. Such a single logic element must have a considerable amount of flexibility to meet the various input and output loadings, operating temperatures, and power-supply variations which may be encountered. This paper considers the circuit design of the transistor NOR circuit."
"IN MANY engineering problems, it is required to calculate the forces on dielectric and magnetic materials when they are placed in an electromagnetic field. Quite often, it is also desirable to know the force density (the distribution of the forces over the entire volume and the surface) of the material. Methods of calculating the forces and the force densities are given in many books on electromagnetic theory. The treatment of the problem generally leads the reader to believe that the solution to the problem is known and that the equations given are correct. However, if one investigates the equations given in different literatures, one finds that they differ considerably and they give completely different force densities. The author failed to find in the literature a single paper which discusses all the different methods and which points out the most important differences among the theories. The author also found that the differences among the theories are generally not well known to engineers. It is for this reason that this paper is written. Typical questions discussed are as follows: 1. How do the forces originate? 2. Where are they located? 3. Is there any shear force acting on the material? 4. After a ferromagnetic material is saturated, is there any further increase in force as a result of an increase in the field intensity?"
"This paper describes a method of detecting the characteristics of an electrical pulse by means of moments that are integrals of the instantaneous pulse amplitude and integral powers of time. Application of this method to detection in band-limited systems in the presence of noise is considered. Theoretical calculations are presented in the form of curves showing the required signal-to-noise ratios for various speeds of signalling. These curves illustrate the inherent flexibility of moment detection, and make possible a comparison between moment and amplitude detection."
"THE EVOLUTION of the control philosophy and consequent design of the control system for a nuclear central-station power plant reflects a merger of present experience in two areas; namely, control of existing hydrocarbon-fueled central-station plants, and control of mobile, production, and research type nuclear reactors."
"OVER THE PAST 10 years, electronic switching circuits have found their way into numerous pieces of equipment in many fields of endeavor. The circuits are carefully designed prototypes intended to serve with utmost reliability and in large numbers in serial or parallel digital computers, in control systems, in communications equipment or in dial telephone switching offices.1‾4 The specific prototype circuit may be designed around vacuum tubes, diodes, magnetic devices, or transistors, as influenced by the system in which it is to be used. The existence of numerous basically different prototype circuits is indicative of the large variation in system goals; new families of switching circuits offer certain advantages in existing systems and open the door to new system applications. The family to be described in this paper is a new prototype available to the system designer."
"THIS PAPER presents an extension of the work reported in Part I.1 The mode of operation and the rating of two frequency sextupler circuits are now analyzed by the method which was applied to frequency triplers in Part I. The circuits employ saturable reactors which are biased by means of direct current, and are very similar to the reactors used in the frequency triplers."
"IN electrostatic precipitation the diffusion mechanism of charging fine particles is extremely difficult to treat mathematically unless rather drastic simplifying assumptions are made. The size of these fine particles is comparable to the mean free path of the molecules of the gas. To treat this precisely one would have to include the effect of the field on the individual paths of the ions and consider the fact that the paths of the ions in the electric field are curves and not straight lines. If all of this is included in the differential equation it appears almost impossible to obtain any exact solution. White1 has given an excellent review of the solutions which have been obtained. In order to obtain reasonable mathematical equations all investigators have neglected the effect of the main electric field and have treated the problem by kinetic theory methods. Of course, since the field was neglected in deriving the equations, the calculated charge is independent of the field. In the past the Millikan oil-drop method has been the usual method for measuring the charge and with this method it was difficult to obtain sufficient experimental information to determine the agreement with calculations."
"CHARGING CONDITIONS and particle size are important factors in electrostatic gas cleaning. Particle mobility, the rate at which the particle moves in an electric field of unit strength, is a function of the charge and size of the particle. The minimum mobility and the particle size at which it occurs, are functions of the charging conditions."
"THE sphere gap which is widely used as a method of measuring high voltage has its acceptance based on extensive calibration of the breakdown of air as a dielectric between spheres of specified sizes and spacings. The breakdown voltages between spheres of particular sizes are given for spacings up to a sphere diameter in the AIEE Standard no. 41 and in the British Standard no. 358.2"
"THE INCREASING needs of government, business, and industry have, with emphasis, pointed to the need for an advanced concept in communications. Radio and carrier spectra are at a premium. These facts, together with the knowledge that considerable improvement could be realized in system performance, provided the motivation which, in the past 8 years at Collins Radio Company1 has resulted in the development of predicted wave signalling (PWS). PWS employs kinematic filtering and is most often used with multichannel or multiplex systems, and it has been named “Kineplex.”"
"IN MANY electric energy storage applications the objective is to store energy slowly over a relatively long interval and than withdraw the energy quickly to obtain a very high peak power. For certain applications of this type, inductance coils have significant advantages over capacitors or rotating machinery. The inductive storage method is particularly advantageous in situations where millions of watt-seconds are to be stored and the energy is to be expended in a time interval of a few milliseconds."
"THE relative location, in a circuit, of a wattmeter, voltmeter, and ammeter generally requires careful consideration. If the voltmeter and wattmeter potential circuit are connected on the load side of the ammeter and wattmeter current coil, the potential circuits are subjected to the correct voltage, but the ammeter and wattmeter current is in error by the current through the potential circuits. On the other hand, connecting the voltmeter and wattmeter potential coil to the line side of the ammeter and wattmeter current coil permits the correct load current to flow through the instruments, but the potential-circuit voltage is incorrect by the voltage drop in the ammeter and wattmeter current coil."
"A 2-terminal self-biased memory-type switching device is an electronic bistable switch which has only two accessible terminals to all voltage and current sources. Such a switch can be realized with a single multiterminal semiconductor device exhibiting negative resistance, if advantage is taken of the \"blocking voltage\" concept. The blocking voltage is defined here as the forward voltage at a P-N junction at which the incremental conductance is a hundredfold greater than the incremental conductance at zero voltage. By proper circuit connections, the blocking voltage may be utilized to block injection of minority carriers in a semiconductor device until the voltage applied to the device exceeds a peak value. Such a device may exhibit low or negative a-c resistance after the peak value is exceeded. It is shown in the following discussion how the blocking-voltage concept may be applied to obtain negative resistance behavior from a junction transistor, a point-contact transistor, a modified double-base diode, or a modified tetrode. A few applications, mainly in the telephone field, are also indicated."
"A fairly simple theory is given and criteria have been established for analysis or design of magnetic circuits in which there are an unbalanced or d-c magnetization and a high alternating induction. High values of alternating induction and a nonlinear relation between induction B and field strength H are characteristics of magnetic circuits in power apparatus, in contrast to magnetic circuits in audio components. The relation between induction and field strength during cyclic variation is given approximately by the d-c magnetization curve of the magnetic circuit. Maximum and minimum values of induction correspond to maximum and minimum values of field strength, but the average values of B and H are not simply related. The demagnetizing effect of an alternating field superimposed upon a direct field is the reduction of average induction after the application of the alternating field. This effect is due to the nonlinearity of the magnetization function. A simple circuit using the test sample and an auxiliary transformer has been devised for obtaining data on magnetic cores by direct measurement. Test results for representative cores have been organized in a manner suitable for design use. Excitation volt-amperes, optimum per-cent gap, and core loss may be found as a function of a-c induction and unbalanced field strength. The data on magnetic materials are applicable to reactors and to transformers with unbalanced direct current such as units for supplying half-wave rectifiers. Analysis of the frequency components aids in understanding the operation of half-wave supply circuit. Only the induced voltage of the primary winding and the average secondary current affect the magnetic circuit."
"ENGINEERS have searched for many years to find suitable yardsticks to evaluate insulation. On a scientific plane, one of the earliest approaches was made by Lamme and Steinmetz in 1912.1 Ultimately, their work resulted in the preparation of AIEE Standard no. 1.2 This Standard outlines the principles underlying the accepted method of classifying electrical insulation material. As long as reliance was placed on the insulating materials that existed in nature, it was reasonable to classify materials on the basis of their chemical composition. But, within the past few years, the chemical industry has made great advances. Today, approximately 350 bonding and impregnating resins known by various trade names are available. With the coming of these chemical investigations and the creation of truly synthetic materials, it is no longer rational to fit existing insulations into the old chemical-composition classes."
"WITH the advent of semiconductor rectifiers into the high-power field, the problem of voltage division across series-connected elements during the inverse-voltage period becomes increasingly important. The various methods used in the past all left something to be desired in economy and effectiveness. The new method described in this paper has been tested and its advantages over the older methods have been proved. At the same time the degree of protection has been improved."
"THE cathode-ray oscilloscope is a powerful tool for the maintenance of digital computers, but its use on a mobile cart is often awkward and does not permit the oscilloscope to be used to its fullest advantage. If, however, the oscilloscope could be permanently mounted at the maintenance console and supplied with signals from a network of long probe lines running into the computer, operators at the console could view a comprehensive display of computer wave forms and direct maintenance activities accordingly."
"SCIENTIFIC ADVANCES are continually making new demands on old arts. This is particularly true of the field of atomic energy, where instrumentation is finding itself hard pressed to keep in step. The inexhaustible source of power is at hand, but controlling it so that it can efficiently do its work is taxing our ingenuity."
"FROM the time of the earliest nuclear reactors, it has been considered of primary importance that they be protected against an uncontrolled rise in temperature, whether this rise be due to a corresponding uncontrolled rise in neutron level or to a failure of the cooling system. While it is claimed that some types of reactor are intrinsically safe from this kind of accident, it is likely that until a solid background of experience has been acquired, all nuclear reactors will continue to be protected by devices which “scram” them when such devices foresee a dangerously high temperature. But temperature-sensing devices are too slow, as well as too insensitive at low levels to provide protection during startup. Therefore neutron-sensing devices are used. The present paper will be limited to discussing that part of the safety system which senses neutrons. Similar principles are applicable as well to other portions of the safety system, such as those which sense temperature, coolant flow, etc."
"FOR CONTROL of a nuclear reactor, direct measurement of the power developed is desirable. The product of the coolant flow rate and the temperature differential of the coolant through the reactor gives a measure of the power developed. But this method of measurement is not fully adequate for control, because the detectors of temperature and flow rate respond too slowly to the rapid changes of power and temperature that can occur in reactors, especially during startup."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"An engineer's on-the-job performance often is fallaciously taken as evidence of fitness for a position with different or greater responsibilities and duties. Programs of appraisal result in more effective utilization of engineering manpower potentials and the reduction of costly personnel turnover."
"IN THE DESIGN of load tap changer mechanisms for large power and regulating transformers, the possibility of their operation during system short-circuits is an important design consideration. Interrupting tests to determine the capability for such operation are necessary in order that the switch may be properly applied."
"Possibilities for experimental instrumentation in connection with the International Geophysical Year (IGY) satellites are discussed. A number of experiments appear to satisfy the acceptance criteria for inclusion in the first group of satellites. Certain others may qualify for later satellites if slight relaxations on weight and configuration are permitted."
"THE RELAY AMPLIFIER with feedback is a simple and economical solution to many power amplification problems. The configuration of the primitive relay amplifier is shown in Fig. 1. The relay is assumed to have both deadband and hysteresis as shown. Inasmuch as the low-pass filter is the only predominant lag in the feedback, it might be surmised that the relay amplifier is stable under normal conditions and indeed this may be shown."
"This is the first of two articles outlining some of the significant developments in computing during the past year. Subjects discussed include computer developments, engineering applications, automatic programming, simulation, analog versus digital computers, computer uses in business, and control applications. Typical examples of progress in these areas are cited."
"INASMUCH AS the sole purpose for the existence of an electrical distribution system lies in supplying the requirements of the consumer's utilization devices, it is fundamental that a knowledge of these load requirements is necessary for sound planning of the distribution system and its various components. The economic importance of the knowledge of load characteristics has become more and more recognized with the growth of load on utility systems. In recent years, much work has been done in this field. Many utilities have made and are continuing to make, in some form, surveys of the load on their systems. Information obtained from utility load surveys can be used for many purposes other than distribution system planning and optimum equipment design. Often, data from the same load survey is used in studies of rate structure, cost analysis, and development of “selective selling” programs."
"FOR MANY YEARS the railroads have been operating their passenger business at a loss. The railroads, as well as locomotive and car builders, have studied this problem to see what could be done to turn the loss into a profit. The findings of the study have resulted in designing and building a new type of passenger car and locomotive. The cars are lower in initial cost, are lighter in weight and require less power to haul them, have a lower center of gravity, and have been designed to require less maintenance."
"A brief review is presented of television allocation developments since 1945 and an outline is given of the effect of the developments in the television broadcast service on the present rules of the Federal Communications Commission. Future developments are predicted using the past 10 years as a guide."
"The nature of feasible electrical systems to meet the needs of future aircraft is discussed. This involves an indication of the better solutions to the electrical system problems and the means of obtaining these solutions."
"THE APPLICATION of moments to determine the center of gravity, moment of inertia, and other properties of mechanical systems is well known. These computations involve the product of integral powers of the distance measured from some reference point and area, volume, mass, etc. Moments can also be used to determine a configuration of electric signals consisting of one or more d-c pulses restricted to exist at specified periods of time measured from a reference of zero time. In the electrical case, the moments consist of the products of voltage or current and integral powers of the time. For this reason, they may be called temporal moments. The temporal moment of order k of a function of time f(t), calculated in the interval from t = O, to t = T, is defined as follows"
"In this second article of a series on pioneering investigations in electrical science, the first electric generator is described and an account is given of the early investigations into the relationship between light and electricity as well as the ingenious machines and experiments devised to probe this relationship."
"Nuclear radiation is known to produce drastic changes in some structural materials. This reactor will provide data on these effects thereby facilitating nuclear power plant design. The importance of this problem for the design engineer is discussed and meaning of the term radiation is examined so that the purpose and design details of the reactor can be better understood."
"Metal-clad SWITCHGEAR using magnetic-type power circuit breakers has had a top limit of 500 mva (megavolt-amperes) interrupting capacity for some time. However, studies begun in the early 1950's indicated that the loads to be expected in the foreseeable future required area substations with mva ratings about 50 to 65% larger than those obtainable with the 13.8-kv 500-mva breaker equipment. A 750-mva equipment will permit an increase in substation size within this range."
"The use of X-rays as a method of nondestructive quantitative chemical analysis is discussed. Two instruments designed for the measurement of barium fluoride treatment in aircraft generator brushes are described. Other applications of these instruments can be deduced from the method of analysis reviewed in the article."
"There are many communities throughout the country which, because of terrain problems, receive poor, if any, television service. Several methods for filling in these “holes” are discussed, the most economical being the translator type of booster."
"METROPOLITAN AREAS present their own peculiar problems in circuit breaker application. Power for many sections within these areas must be transmitted through underground cables, and previous transmission voltages for these and other sections no longer are economical for the loads involved. A circuit breaker for 138 kv, therefore, is indicated."
"THE DEVELOPMENT of the Thyrite (registered trade mark) Magne-Valve station-type lightning arrester with its improved lightning protective characteristics made it possible to reduce power transformer BIL by two insulation classes under certain conditions. This was the culmination of a 5-year program which had three objectives: (1) to obtain service experience with the new arresters used with high-voltage two-step-down transformers; (2) to get additional information on switching surges occurring in service, and their effect on strength of transformer insulation; and (3) to study the long-time steady-state strength of transformer insulation."
"Based on a survey of membership in 1947, our Board of Directors has followed an “Institute Policy” expressed in the following “Statement” adopted on June 15, 1950 (Year Book, 1954, Resolutions, p. 609):"
"THE 1957 Summer General Meeting of the AIEE will take place June 24–28, in Montreal, Que., Canada. Meetings and several social events will be held in the Sheraton-Mount Royal Hotel."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"SOME 400 ENGINEERS, scientists, educators, and industrialists met in Des Moines, Iowa, for the AIEE Great Lakes District Meeting, held April 15–17, 1957 at the Hotel Fort Des Moines. The District includes the states of Iowa, North Dakota, South Dakota, Minnesota, Michigan, Illinois, and Indiana."
"I AM DEEPLY MOVED to be appearing before you at this Great Lakes District Meeting not only as a member of the Iowa Section of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers but also as President of the great professional engineering organization that we are representing. However, mingled with that feeling is one of pride that our Iowa Section is privileged to serve as host again to a District Meeting of the Institute, for it portrays the kind of vigorous sponsorship that permeates our total membership. It represents an opportunity to bring a segment of the Institute to Iowa for the second time in recent years and the responsibility to invest some time and energy in our chosen profession. It represents an opportunity to keep AIEE members and others abreast of new developments in technology and the responsibility for bringing encouragement to younger engineers into whose hands new techniques begin to reside more universally by reason of their more rigorous and advanced technical training. In short it represents complete interdependence."
"JACKSON, capital of Mississippi, extended a warm welcome to the 528 engineers, engineers' wives, and students attending the Southern District Meeting of the AIEE held April 3–5, 1957, at the Heidelberg Hotel. All of the states in the District-Kentucky, Tennessee, North Carolina, Mississippi, Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, Louisiana, Virginia, and florida—were well represented at the meeting."
"EDITOR'S NOTE: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y."
"H. M. Cook (AM '52), district manager, Buffalo-Syracuse sales area, Clark Controller Company, has been named manager of industry sales for the company in Cleveland, Ohio. Mr. Cook received the B.S. degree in E.E. from the University of Colorado in 1938. He joined Clark Controller the following year. Prior to moving to the Buffalo-Syracuse district where he has been district manager for the past six years, he did engineering and development work, and served in the company's Birmingham, Ala., district office. Mr. Cook is a member of the Association of Iron and Steel Engineers."
"Donald William Dewey (M '47), superintendent of substations. The Cincinnati Gas & Electric Company, died recently at the age of 43. Mr. Dewey graduated with the degree of electrical engineer from the University of Cincinnati in 1936. He started with The Cincinnati Gas & Electric Company as a co-operative student in 1930. After graduation, he moved up through the electric test department to become operating engineer in charge in 1948. He was promoted to superintendent of substations in 1950, the position which he held at the time of his death. Mr. Dewey was an active member of the AIEE Cincinnati Section having served as director as well as on various committees."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of April 18, 1957, recommended the following applications for transfer. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"THE STUDENT BRANCH of the AIEE at the U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md., was authorized January 25, 1951. Prof. D. G. Howard was appointed counselor, and the first chairman was Midshipman H. F. Hicks, Jr., of the class of 1952."
"AN INTERESTING EXHIBITION “Leonardo da Vinci as Inventor” was shown a few years ago in several cities of America. The models were admirable but I had grave doubts about the educational value of the exhibition which was visited by thousands of school children without the guide of an expert. Many of them left the show with the idea that Da Vinci, among scores of other things, had invented the flying machine; not knowing that all endeavours of human beings to lift themselves in still air, even for minutes, was doomed to failure as long as no motor existed in which the ratio of power to weight was far better than in human beings. The boys and girls could not know that Da Vinci was as far from the solution of the problem as the old Greek poet who had invented the beautiful tale of “Daedalus and Icarus.”"
"AS THE SCHOOL YEAR draws to a close a fact to be faced by most engineering graduates is that of military service. For some, R.O.T.C. graduates for example, it is a relatively simple problem because the course is pretty clear, and is charted, for the most part, by the military authorities. In these times, however, almost all other engineering graduates who are physically acceptable (assuming there is no mental disability among college graduates—especially engineering graduates) have to consider the relationship of a period of military service to post-college plans and engineering career development."
"Technical journals serve the practicing engineer in the same manner that textbooks serve the student in his formal education. They are the only source of up-to-date theoretical and practical technical information on developments in the fields of interest to the engineer."
"THE ARMY Package Power Reactor (APPR) is a 2,035-kw pressurized-water nuclear electric generating plant built at Fort Belvoir, Va., by ALCO Products, Inc., under contract to the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) for the U. S. Army. It is the Army's first undertaking in the power reactor field. The net electrical output of the plant will be utilized to supplement the Fort Belvoir power distribution system."
"A DEMONSTRATION of a “radio pill” that sends out FM signals to medical researchers as it passes through the human body was given for the first time at the Rockefeller Institute recently."
"HYPERSONIC SHOCK TUBES for industry, universities, and specialized research teams and laboratories will be produced by the Research and Advanced Development Division of Avco Manufacturing Corporation, it was announced recently. The shock tube is capable of duplicating environmental conditions of flight in speed ranges up to 18,000 mph, or 25 times the speed of sound."
"THE DISCOVERY and initial development of a new plastic material tough enough to replace metals in many applications was announced recently by General Electric Company (GE)."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Guided missiles, radars, and other defense weapons will be more reliable in action, thanks to a super-sleuth with X-ray vision now used by Raytheon Manufacturing Company to check special electron tubes going into these devices."
"An ignition distributor development program has been climaxed by sponsoring the development of a new high in ignition distributor quality control—the first all-electronic distributor test stand. Installation of a battery of this new equipment in the Ford Parts and Equipment Division plant in Ypsilanti, Mich., provides the Ford Motor Company with distributor uniformity heretofore unknown in the motor vehicle industry."
"J. K. Richardson, assistant general manager, Chino Mines Division, Kennecott Copper Corporation, Hurley, N. Mex., addressed the annual Extractive Metallurgy Division luncheon of the American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical, and Petroleum Engineers (AIME), during their annual meeting. The luncheon was held at the Jung Hotel, New Orleans, La. Mr. Richardson spoke on the subject “New Horizons—New Responsibilities.”"
"The world of electronics was revealed during the 1957 National Convention and Radio Engineering Shpw of the/Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE)."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"As his term of office draws to a close, AIEE President Coover reports on the current status of the Institute, progress during the past administrative year, and the outlook for the future."
"This article discusses the use of an instrumented satellite wherein measurements made in the vehicle are transmitted to ground recording stations by means of a radio telemetering system. The design requirements of a unique telemetering encoder system are examined in the light of the limitations imposed by the over-all satellite program."
"Socio-economic pressures are creating problems that require more than technical engineering competence for their solution. To meet the challenge, the engineer must achieve professional status. The nature of this status is discussed together with the efforts the engineer must exert to earn it."
"PIONEERING in the use of a microwave system for complete high-speed relay protection for 115-kv pipe-type cables and transfer tripping protection for associated transformers, the Boston Edison Company has had a 2,000-mc microwave system in operation for approximately one year."
"In view of the increasing application of nuclear steam generators in future power plants, it is desirable to examine the problems of nuclear plant operation. Among the areas covered are start-up, normal operation, normal and emergency shutdown, maintenance, refueling, and manpower."
"A performance rating system is described for one of the largest industrial laboratories in the world, employing an extremely heterogeneous scientific personnel whose contributions in many cases are intangible. This situation has many unique facets, involving as it does the comparison of “horses and apples,” and psychological factors in human judgment."
"THE INPUT or control requirements of magnetic amplifiers are influenced to a great extent by the “dynamic” properties of the core, i.e., by the sensitiveness of the ferromagnetic core materials to changing magnetic flux. Attempts to describe analytically the over-all core behavior in terms of the magnetization processes within the material are hindered by the complexity of the mathematics involved and by the lack of an accurate evaluation of the pertinent physical constants of the material. The objective of this article is to determine experimentally an approximate relationship between significant variables which describe the electromagnetic behavior of these cores; this work is limited to cores wound of 50% nickel-iron, grain-oriented tapes."
"This is the second and concluding article on developments in the computing field. The use of the computer as an engineering and research tool is examined and its growing application in business and manufacturing is noted."
"THE PROBLEM of calculating eddy-current loss in the end portion of turbine-generator stator windings involves a study of the three-dimensional field of the end region of the machine. This field may be subdivided into components, and each component determined by two-dimensional methods. The components are combined to give the total flux density at any point. Once the flux density is known, eddy-current loss may be calculated by methods previously developed for bus bars and laminated cores."
"This is the third article of a series on pioneering investigations in electrical science. Investigations into the nature of electricity increase in tempo with the first demonstrations on men and machines hinting at the enormous power inherent in this phenomenon."
"The problem of providing effective cooling of electric power equipment in aircraft becomes more acute as flight speeds and altitudes increase. Present trends in generator design are to introduce new high-temperature materials, to employ a circulating coolant and an external heat exchanger, and to depend upon the evaporation of liquids for cooling."
"THE LOWER ST. LAWRENCE VALLEY, once a sparsely populated area with villages hugging the shore of the river and gulf and living mainly from farming, lumbering, and fishing, is now in the midst of a major expansion program. Iron, copper, and titanium mines are exploited, numerous factories are appearing and over a million horse power has recently been developed from the huge hydroelectric resources. During the past 20 years the resources of the region have been developed at an ever-increasing rate and consequently it has been necessary to extend communication facilities to keep apace with this industrial development."
"An engineering study has been made for the Air Research and Development Command of the U. S. Air Force, the object being the preparation of recommendations for needed development in the area of ground support for secondary power. The results, as they pertain to ground electric power, are discussed."
"No standards exist today for instrumentation adequate to insure health and safety in and around a power reactor. However, it is possible to outline the measurements required, the required ranges and accuracies, and classes of instruments and their application. Based on these outlines, instrumentation for a representative power reactor is suggested."
"A HYDROELECTRIC SYSTEM must be engineered to carry the anticipated firm peak and energy loads even under “critical” water conditions. When conditions are more favorable water will therefore either have to be spilled, or at best, used to generate secondary power to be sold at dump rates, provided there is a market for it. Substantial economic gains are frequently possible through “firming up” such secondary hydroelectric power by a supplementary thermal plant. The level of firming up can be measured by the equation “Firm Up Ratio” x = firm capability — critical capability/median capability — critical capability. The higher the firm-up ratio, the greater will be the gain in firm power, and at the same time, the quantity and cost of thermal energy required. For a given set of local conditions, there will be an optimum level of firming up which will produce the greatest economic gain. The objectives are to determine the optimum firm-up ratio, the optimum size of thermal plant, and the relative economy of a gas turbine plant vs a conventional steam turbine plant for firm-up service. Equations are obtained for the desired quantities and solved on an IBM 604 computer for a wide range of hydroelectric, thermal plant, and fuel costs, using an IBM 604 computer."
"IN FEEDBACK CONTROL SYSTEMS it is often found that a controller which has a dual mode of operation offers definite advantages. Such a controller has one mode of operation for small signals and a second mode for large signals. The first mode can usually be designed with linear studies using a periodic, aperiodic, or statistical test signal, depending on the application. A “large-step” test function is usually satisfactory, regardless of the application, for design of the second mode."
"PITTSFIELD, MASS., located in western Massachusetts on the New York State border, was host to the North Eastern District Meeting held at the Wendell-Sherwood Hotel, May 1–3, 1957. Situated against a backdrop of the Berkshire Mountains, Pittsfield is the hub of a resort area that, in addition to the scenic attractions, is the home of the world famous Berkshire Music Festival at Tanglewood where each year during July and August the Boston Symphony Orchestra draws throngs of music lovers. The area is equally famous for the historical contributions of its citizenry. Josh Billings, famous American humorist, is buried outside of Pittsfield and Susan B. Anthony's birthplace is located at Adams, a town nearby. Along Route 143, a few miles outside of Pittsfield, is a cemetery in which Israel Bissell, an unsung patriot who outdid Paul Revere, lies buried. Bissell galloped five days to carry the news of Lexington to Connecticut, New York, and Philadelphia."
"AIRCRAFT APPLICATIONS were stressed at the AIEE East Central and Middle Eastern District Meeting and Air Transportation Conference held May 7–9, 1957, at the Dayton-Biltmore Hotel, Dayton, Ohio. Registration at this combined meeting exceeded 900."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"PLANS for the 1957 AIEE Pacific General Meeting to be held in Pasco, Wash., August 28–30, are nearing completion. The technical program will present a view of several highly interesting fields which are the subject of intense research and development programs at this time. The inspection trips and entertainment programs will offer many excellent opportunities for engineers and in some instances family groups to get a look at the rapidly expanding engineering, industrial, and recreational features of the Northwest."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"THE DEPARTMENT of electrical engineering at the University of Maryland was established in 1908. Prof. L. J. Hodgins, with the assistance of the Washington (D.C.) Section of the Institute, organized the Student Branch of the AIEE on March 9, 1936. Because of increasing interest in the field of electronics and communications, the Joint Student Branch was formed in 1948."
"A LONG-SECRET CLASS of super-radars — now in service with the fleet for guidance of its Terrier missiles — was revealed recently by the U. S. Navy."
"OPPORTUNITIES exist in the Antarctic program planned by the U. S. National Committee for the International Geophysical Year (IGY) 1957–58, for scientists, engineers, and technicians at the bachelors, masters, and doctorate levels of training and experience in physics, geophysics, electronics, or closely allied areas. The IGY is a study of the physics of the earth in which more than 50 nations are collaborating. The U. S. Antarctic program emphasizes the following fields: Aurora and Airglow, Cosmic Rays, Glaciology, Gravity, Ionospheric Physics, Meteorology, and Seismology. Most of the current openings exist in the fields of meteorology and glaciology, although the other fields still require a limited number of specialists."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reje∗∗∗ct them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters, submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literat ure may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Some of the newer developments in the field of nuclear instrumentation at General Electric's Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory are discussed. A description is given of typical reactor monitoring and protective instrument systems, as well as the auxiliary instruments for neutron physics experiments."
"This is the first of a two-part article on the impact of information theory on the development of communications systems. Some of the specific contributions that have been made are examined, and the nature of their influence on the practical communications art is outlined."
"AN INSTRUMENT has been developed to measure thermal neutron flux directly and automatically in the range from 1013 to 1014 neutrons per square centimeter per second at ambient temperatures up to 350 C. When two nearly identical elements, one containing enriched, and the other natural uranium are placed together in a neutron flux, a temperature difference will exist between them caused by fissioning in the fueled element. Since both are heated equally by gamma radiation, this temperature difference can be related to neutron flux. If the element containing natural uranium is heated electrically to the temperature of the fueled element, the electric power required will be proportional to the difference in heat generated between the two elements and to the neutron flux. The system, shown in Fig. 1, functions as follows: When a temperature differential exists because of fissioning in the sensing element, the electric potential in the differential thermocouple actuates a proportioning controller, which regulates the power output of a magnetic amplifier supplying electric heating power to the balancing element. This automatic adjustment of power to the balancing element continues until the temperature difference between the sensing and balancing element is zero. The equivalent of the net fission power is read directly from a wattmeter."
"The operating principles of the radio phase-comparison angle-tracking system known as Minitrack are examined. Design criteria for the system are discussed with reference to the severe weight and size limitations and altitude limits of the Vanguard satellite."
"Codes, rules, and regulations, when not woven into the inner life of a person, lose their meaning and will not withstand turbulent or catastrophic experiences. One of the chief responsibilities of the engineering profession is that of establishing codes which tend to foster the development of the highest ethical convictions in the individual. The author argues that fixed and detailed codes which rapidly become removed from existential experience can become an encumbrance with little effect on current conduct. The air is filled with such codes: election practice codes, fair employment codes, movie producer codes, college football codes, entertainment decency codes, etc. \"Everyone wants to get into the act\" - and if everyone does, the act can get pretty cluttered up. But if our canons can define simply the basic principles of the acceptance of a meaningful interpretation of life and these can be supplemented by on-the-spot group fellowship discussions of particular situations, then it seems likely that a developing experience of responsible behavior which may permeate the entire profession will be produced."
"The use of electronics in the measurement and control of process variables usually results in higher production rates as well as higher quality at lower costs. Among the advantages are ease of measurement, high speed of response, and the ability to transmit information over long distances."
"THE METHOD of determining a neutron flux from measurements made on materials which have been activated by the flux has been used successfully by many people. The activation technique that has been used to measure the flux profiles in several new reactor cores is described here."
"FOR CONTROL of a nuclear reactor, ionization in a gas has been utilized most generally for detection purposes because the output of a neutron-sensitive gas-filled ionization chamber responds rapidly to changes in neutron flux and, hence, to the corresponding reactor power."
"Dr. Beverage, holder of many patents and co-inventor of the wave antenna and diversity system for high frequency reception, has been awarded the 1956 Lamme Medal “… for his pioneering and outstanding engineering achievements in the conception and application of principles basic to progress in national and world-wide radio communications.”"
"The revised American Standard for lightning arresters for a-c power circuits from 120-volt through 230-kv circuits is discussed."
"IN SPITE OF EFFORTS to design nuclear reactors which will be intrinsically sale from an uncontrolled increase in the rate of power generation, it remains the primary problem of reactor instrumentation to provide a safety circuit, sensing neutron level, which will safely limit such excursions and yet not impose an undue burden on operation by reason of accidental “scrams” due to instrument failure. At Brookhaven National Laboratory, the philosophy of these safety circuits has recently been overhauled in the light of operating experience and a thorough-going redesign has been completed. The following features, in line with this thinking, have been incorporated into the new system: 1. A reasonable amount of effort has been expended to make the circuits free from failure. 2. A reasonable amount of effort has been expended to make the circuits fail-safe. 3. Hourly automatic testing drastically reduces the risk from unsafe faults. 4. Three independent safety channels are employed in a “two out of three” coincidence connection in order to insure adequate protection, together with reasonable freedom from accidental scrams. 5. No means are provided for disabling any of the three safety channels. 6. Means are provided for disabling the automatic testing for short spaces of time only. 7. Operator can clear faults rapidly by plugging in a complete new channel. 8. The state of the system and the results of the operability tests are continuously and directly presented to the operator, who, therefore, is in a position of knowledge and responsibility. Consequently, division of responsibility can be avoided. 9. The inverse period signal is added to the power signal in order to make the circuit trip with less period signal as the power increases."
"In making predictions of future demand peaks, it is usually necessary to examine past data to determine evidence of trends and cycles. Studies of demand growth curves show the presence of distinct 2 1/2-year cycles."
"This is the fourth article of a series on pioneering investigations in electrical science. Further experiments in the development of the Leyden jar and some of the significant contributions of Benjamin Franklin to our electrical knowledge are recounted."
"IN A HEAT POWER PLANT, temperature is a major parameter. The accuracy with which it can be measured determines whether the plant can work efficiently, close to the upper boundaries of mechanical strength and close to critical pressures, or whether performance must be sacrificed by leaving wide safety margins. For this reason, and also because of its large power output and lack of cold junction compensation problems, a resistance thermometer is preferable for use in nuclear reactor applications, such as in atomic-powered submarines."
"THE AIEE Pacific General Meeting will be held in Pasco, Wash., August 28–30, 1957. The headquarters for the meeting and all technical sessions held will be in the new Pasco Senior High School."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"VICE-PRESIDENT Glenn Holcomb of the American Society of Civil Engineers and Past President M. D. Hooven of the AIEE (also president of Engineers' Council for Professional Development and director of Engineers Joint Council) attended the celebration of 250 years of technical schools in Prague on May 27 through May 30 as guests of the Republic of Czechoslovakia. Delegates from 21 nations attended. The British, French, Indian, Austrian, West German, and American representatives were quartered at the Alcorn Hotel. The treatment was “red carpet” to say the least, every facility and every convenience being made available. It was apparent that an extraordinary effort was made to accord the British and American delegates the same degree of recognition that was accorded the Soviet representatives, who, by the way, were very affable."
"Special attention is directed to the fact that the names of Institute members who are considered eligible for the AIEE Lamme Medal, to be awarded early in 1958 may be submitted by any member in accordance with section 1 of article VI of the bylaws of the Lamme Medal Committee, as follows: “The Committee shall cause to be published in one or more issues of Electrical Engineering, or of its successors, each year, a statement regarding the Lamme Medal and an invitation for any member to present to the Secretary of the Institute by December 1, the name of a member as a nominee for the medal, accompanied by a statement of his ‘meritorious achievement’ and the names of at least three engineers of standing who are familiar with the achievement.”"
"The conference papers listed here have been accepted by AIEE Transactions and will be open for written discussion."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers presents to the membership its 73rd Annual Report, covering the fiscal year ending April 30, 1957. It contains a brief summary of the principal activities of the Institute during the year, a general balance sheet showing the financial condition of the Institute at the close of the fiscal year, a statement of cash receipts and disbursements, and a schedule of securities owned. Much additional information regarding the activities appeared in various issues of Electrical Engineering."
"LIGHTED only by glittering stars and an occasional, spectacular Aurora Australis, seven small Antarctic outposts have battened down the hatches for a long, cold winter's night. The sun has set below the northern horizon, not to reappear again until October. With it went the 12 ships, 40 aircraft, and more than 3,500 U.S. Navy, Coast Guard, Air Force, Army, and Marine Corps personnel that had bustled around and across this desolate, ice- and snow-covered wasteland."
"A DEMONSTRATION roadway lighting facility where more than 30 different lighting combinations can be observed has been unveiled at General Electric's (GE) Outdoor Lighting Department, which is stated to be “the Outdoor Lighting Center of the World.”"
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reje∗∗∗ct them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters, submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The potentialities of closed-circuit television in the field of instruction are pointed out in this description of an experiment now being conducted in Maryland's Washington County school system."
"To assure the success of a changeover to automation, the individual should be carefully educated, in order to overcome the human characteristic of resistance to change. In this way, the problem of adverse reactions may be greatly reduced."
"In the past few years, there has been a large expansion in the number and size of electrical standardizing laboratories. The National Bureau of Standards has prepared a short guide designed to assist in the solution of many of the management problems common to these organizations."
"This is the second and concluding article on the impact of information theory on the development of communications systems. Topics discussed include carrier transmission, the “homodyne” detector, and the applications of information theory to pictorial transmission, facsimile, television, and telephony."
"THE ADVANTAGES of operating magnetic amplifiers at frequencies higher than the usual 50 to 400 cps are improved transient response and reduced size and weight."
"Among the varied broadcasting systems used throughout the world, the Canadian system is unique in its use of privately owned and publicly owned radio and television stations as essential parts of an integrated national operations."
"A description is given of a technique recently devised which permits the accurate determination of corona. With proper discrimination between external corona in air and internal corona in voids and corners under oil, quantitative measurements may be made on oil-insulated transformers."
"CRITERIA have been established, on the basis of a fairly simple theory, for analysis or design of magnetic circuits in which there are an unbalanced or d-c magnetization and a high alternating induction. High values of alternating induction and a nonlinear relation between induction B and field strength H are characteristics of magnetic circuits in power apparatus, in contrast to magnetic circuits in audio components."
"Because of its electronegative characteristics, sulfur hexafluoride gas possesses a phenomenal arc-extinguishing ability and high dielectric strength. Experimental test data support the theory that this gas not only is a better dielectric than air at the same pressure, but also can interrupt the same short-circuit power as compressed air and at lower blast pressures."
"MOST, IF NOT ALL, of the theory of carrier systems for d-c amplification has been based on the use of sinusoidal modulators. In general, this approach has been adequate for showing the equivalence of such systems to direct-coupled systems in many steady-state and transient characteristics. Such analyses are only applicable to contact-modulated systems in the broadest sense, however, and completely fail to indicate special types of transfer functions arising from the unique properties of the contact modulators."
"THE GAUGING AND ADJUSTMENT of the contact operate points of the Bell System's wire spring relay1, 2 will be considered in this article. It is clear that if relays are to perform their function of making and breaking electric circuits rapidly, reliably, and in the proper sequence, it is necessary to specify a range or ranges within the armature's total travel within which all the contacts must operate. Presently, the gauging is done on a purely “go, no-go” basis using thickness gauges to displace the armature to the specified limits, say 0.007 and 0.016 inch, and then ascertaining the contacts' state. This method provides a satisfactory, but not necessarily optimum, adjustment."
"DURING INTERRUPTION of high-current arcs in circuit breakers and contactors, the region between the contacts must be converted from an intensely hot conducting medium to a relatively cool insulating medium. Although the cooling of low-current arcs has been explained by means of conduction, free convection, and radiation, extension of these mechanisms to relatively short (2- to 3-inch) high-current arcs accounts for no more than 25% of the total electric energy input. The purpose of this article is to present a theory, physical picture, and supporting data to explain the cooling process in a high-current (10,000- to 20,000 ampere) free arc."
"This is the fifth article of a series on pioneering investigations in electrical science. Some further history on the development of the lightning rod is given along with an account of the Van Marum machine, the largest electrostatic generator built in the 18th Century."
"General principles and recommendations for grounding apparatus and supporting structures in d-c substations where one polarity is grounded are discussed in this report. Observing these suggestions should result in maximum safety to personnel and equipment."
"WHEN A NONLINEAR feedback control system includes saturation, the output of the system may oscillate with either the input frequency or the l/n order subharmonic of the input frequency, where n is a positive integer greater than l. When the frequency of the output is l/n times that of the input, the output oscillation is called the l/n order pure subharmonic oscillation. The possibility of the occurrence of pure subharmonic oscillations as the response of a nonlinear feedback control system may be predicted from an accurate closed-loop attenuation-frequency curve for a given input amplitude. That is, if the maximum ratio of the system output amplitude to the system input amplitude is large (about 3 db or more), there is a possibility that the output of the system may oscillate with a subharmonic of the input frequency. However, if the maximum ratio of the output amplitude to the input amplitude is small (about 2 db or less), the possibility of the occurrence of pure subharmonic oscillations is very small, if any. Because of the fact that the wave form of the output of a nonlinear element is often extremely nonsinusoidal and it is difficult, in general, to handle nonlinear differential equations, graphical techniques are usually employed for finding the closed-loop frequency response of nonlinear feedback control systems."
"CONSIDERATION of the possibilities presented by d-c power transmission is increasing both in this country and aboard. Economic considerations will ultimately determine the choice of the type of current."
"PURCHASE by the United Engineering Trustees, Inc., 29 W. 39th St., of 37,500 square feet of property on the west side of First Ave. between E. 47th and E. 48th Streets at a price of “approximately $2.7 million” was announced on July 31 by W. J. Barrett, president of the Trustees."
"APPROXIMATELY 2,200 members, their wives, children, and guests attended the Summer General Meeting of the AIEE held June 24–28, 1957, at the Sheraton Mount Royal Hotel, Montreal, Que., Canada. Registration of members exceeded 1,200. Included among the guests were the first prize student winners of the District Student Prize Paper Competitions held during the past administrative year."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists various society-based activities and events that may be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"IN ANTICIPATION of a possible vacation from the usual August meeting, the AIEE Board of Directors tackled one of the heaviest agendas ever attempted in a one-day meeting on Friday, June 28, 1957, in Montreal, Que., Canada. So great has become the demand for meeting rooms and the scheduling of meetings of subcommittees, conferences, and Departments at the Summer General Meeting that the Board has abandoned its traditional Thursday meetings to make room for the growing need for accommodations for those intent on doing Institute business on this convenient occasion. It was only a few years ago that the Board frowned on the intrusion of too many technical sessions on what were intended to be primarily social summer meetings. Not only the technical sessions, but also the administrative business of the Institute has now crowded aside golf, tennis, and other attractions of the pre-war summer meetings to a degree that would have been considered distressing a generation ago. Maybe there is cause for alarm in this mad pace but if so, nobody seemed to be worried about it at Montreal."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of July 18, 1957, recommended the following applications for transfer. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"THE GREAT SIZE and uniqueness of the Jodrell Bank radio telescope, the most sensitive short-wave radio receiver yet constructed and also the most far-reaching transmitter, is an example of outstanding engineering skill."
"ACCORDING T O THE MAPS, it is only 190 miles from Schenectady, N.Y., to Boston, Mass., but for a giant General Electric Co. generator stator that weighs as much as a herd of 47 elephants, it is a trip of nearly 600 miles by rail, sea, and trailer."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statement s made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The unusual properties of fine-particle magnetic materials offer challenging opportunities for research aimed at the development of powerful new permanent magnets. In this article, the permanent-magnet properties of fine particles are summarized and compared with those predicted on a theoretical basis."
"IN THE PROCESS of designing and developing a dynamic system, provisions should be made for analysis of the performance of the system while it is still in the design stage. One method of analysis is to write the equations of motion of each moving part and then combine these equations in such a manner that a means of solution would be possible. This method is satisfactory if the system has few moving parts and, thereby, does not require many equations to describe its behavior. For a highly complex system, this will prove to be very laborious by longhand methods and should be submitted to machine computation for solution. The motion of the parts of the system may be such that an equation describing the behavior of any one part may be difficult to write unless approximations are made, and may have to be directly simulated by a device which has the proper dynamic characteristics built into it."
"IT IS IMPORTANT that the aircraft electric power system designer be provided with techniques for evaluating the effects of inverter loads on the stability of d-c systems. Inverter-induced instability has been a problem for a number of years. In the past, the problem has been resolved by arbitrarily changing the time response of some element of the system. Stability criteria have now been developed on the basis of measurable properties of the system."
"Automation is not merely new techniques and machinery, but is a way of thinking about the man — machine complex that has vast economic implications, especially for the electronics industry. There are, however, powerful psychological and economic factors that will brake its development, thus insuring time to adjust. Examples are provided from the author's own practice to document this point."
"THE PROVINCE OF ALBERTA, with a population of 1,123,000 living in an area of some 110,000 square miles out of a total area of 255,285 square miles, requires an extensive network of transmission lines to supply the electric power needs of its people. At the end of 1956, there were 36,097 miles of 2,300- to 138,000-volt transmission lines operated in the Province."
"A method of creative inventing is described that, unlike other systems, is more applicable to individual than to group effort. The heart of this system is the process of abstracting from each subunit of the proposed device those properties and characteristics that will help the would-be inventor visualize the functional relationship of one subunit to another."
"IN EUROPE, the advantages of adding rosin to oil blends are considered to be (1) greatly improved resistance to oxidation under factory conditions; (2) increased electric strength; (3) increased cable stability and life; and (4) a viscosity-temperature characteristic consistent with the requirements of low viscosity at elevated temperatures, facilitating impregnation, as well as high viscosity at ambient and normal operating temperature, reducing drainage."
"A DIGITAL METHOD has been developed for solving the transient stability equations of an electric system in which induction motor performance is critical. All calculations are made using a stored program computer with 2,000 words of storage. Experience which includes 100 sets of step-by-step calculations for three electric systems indicates that the method is not excessively difficult to apply, and that costs are competitive with better known network analyzer methods."
"Future residential destribution developments will probably depart significantly from today's practices. To meet the requirements of higher kw customer demands, it will be necessary to develop a system which can absorb larger incremental load increases at a minimum of expense."
"TELEVISION BROADCASTING began in Canada in September 1952, when the first two television stations owned by the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation (CBC) went into service in Montreal, Que., and Toronto, Ont. These stations were built with a loan of $4.5 million which was provided by the Government of Canada for the purpose of establishing the nucleus of a Canadian television system. In the five years that have passed from then to the present, the television industry has grown at a rate which far exceeded all expectations, and already about 80% of the population of Canada has television service available. The number of transmitting stations has increased from the original 2 to 39, of which 8 are owned by the CBC, and 31 by private interests. In addition, eight more private stations are under construction and several other applications are pending."
"IN 1956, Public Service Electric & Gas Co. constructed a 13-mile, 138-kv pipe cable from West Orange (N.J.) Switching station to a proposed switching station in Cranford. Special construction was required to permit this cable to be rated up from its normal value of 190 mva to 225 mva, to meet high terminal pressures resulting from a static head of 515 feet, and to anchor the cable on a steep grade near one end of the line."
"Operational control problems to insure adequate protection from the two main types of radiation damage — somatic and genetic — fall into two general categories: control of external radiation and control of radioactive contamination. The author in his discussion draws on the experience gained at the Chalk River nuclear plant in Canada."
"This is the sixth and concluding article of a series on pioneering investigations in electrical science. The development of electrical instruments and the contributions of Alessandro Volta, whose voltaic pile initiated a new era in electrical science, are recounted."
"The results of a broad survey conducted by the EEI of research projects now under way in the utility field are presented. Data will be used to co-ordinate research efforts among member companies."
"THE DESIRE to achieve safe automatic start-up of nuclear power reactors — especially where rapid starting of marine or airborne reactors is required — has led to attempts to measure transients in neutron flux at power levels that correspond to 10−10, or less, of full operating power. At these levels, one uses instruments such as counters and count-rate meters, that operate on individual neutron detections. Logarithmic count-rate meters are frequently used for convenience in monitoring wide ranges of neutron flux. Furthermore, the variable most commonly used for control during reactor start-up is the time derivative of the logarithm of the neutron flux, which is by definition proportional to the reciprocal of the period."
"WITH THE ADVENT of power-frequency magnetic-amplifier devices for logic systems, a need has developed for 10 to 1,000 volt-ampere output magnetic amplifiers conrolled by 0.1 to 1 volt-ampere logic signals. Digital output requirements are particularly stringent because the amplifier is adapted to complete, existing lines of transducer devices (e.g., solenoid valves, power contactors, small motors, etc.) intended to operate from a power line directly or through a step-down transformer where flat (0 to 5%) voltage regulation is demanded of the amplifier, although instantaneous load variation may be as great as 20 to 1 between transient and steady-state conditions."
"FOR THE FOURTH YEAR in succession, the Fall General Meeting of the AIEE will be held in Chicago, Ill. This year, the meeting will be held October 7–11, and the headquarters will again be at the Morrison Hotel. The technical program, inspection trips, and social activities will occupy the entire facilities of the Morrison during the five-day meeting."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"THE CHAPTER for an AIEE Student Branch was presented to the University of Cincinnati on April 10, 1908. Counselor for the Branch, which is composed of approximately 100 students, is W. H. Middendorf. The academic school year 1956–57 marked the 50th anniversary of the co-operative plan of education in the United States. This plan was originated at the University of Cincinnati in 1906 by the late Dean Herman Schneider. The three units using the co-operative plan at the University are: the College of Engineering, College of Business Administration, and College of Applied Arts. The College of Engineering offers co-operative courses in aeronautical, chemical, civil, electrical, mechanical, and metallurgical engineering. The Herman Schneider Memorial Quadrangle (right) honors the originator of the co-operative plan of education."
"MANY TIMES this Fall the question will be asked, “What do I get for my five dollars?” If you are a student of electrical engineering, you will probably ask this question at least once during the coming semester."
"THE EQUIVALENT CIRCUIT of the iron-core transformer is usually presented as fact, with but a casual attempt at justification of the circuit configuration or the values of the parameters. It is the purpose of this article to, start with the transformer as a 4-terminal network of measurable parameters and to develop therefrom the conventional equivalent circuit by means of matrix algebra."
"ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING techniques are constantly providing the solution to control engineering problems which previously were insurmountable. One of the more recent applications of electrical engineering to the mechanical control field has been the design of electric analog computers for industrial machine tool control."
"THE TRANSMISSION LINE described was built for use as a visual aid in the electrical engineering courses at the South Dakota School of Mines and Technology. The theory of the transmission line and its uses can be developed mathematically, but this theory appears quite abstract to the student if no demonstration of the practical uses of the transmission line are available."
"CLOSED-CIRCUIT TELEVISION has been used increasingly during the last few years as a teaching medium, particularly in cases where it is necessary for a single instructor to reach a large number of students. It has been suggested that closed-circuit television provides at least a partial answer to the problem of increasingly large numbers of students in both college and secondary schools, without corresponding increases in the number of competent teachers. Studies have been made by a number of groups to determine the relative effectiveness of this medium, as compared with conventional teaching methods in which an instructor meets a small group of students in the intimacy of a classroom."
"SIGNALS transmitted by powerful radar equipment of the U. S. Army Signal Corps at Fort Monmouth, N. J., and reflected by the surface of the moon have been received by one of the earth satellite tracking stations, it was disclosed by the U. S. Army and Navy for the first time recently."
"AS A SALUTE to the International Geophysical Year (IGY), the U. S. Army's “Sunday Punch,” the giant Redstone missile, was recently unveiled to the public at Grand Central Terminal. Towering almost to the ceiling, the 6-foot-diameter, 62-foot-long rocket weapon is the largest object ever displayed at the terminal. It also is the biggest missile to be successfully flown in the Western World, and already is being incorporated in the Army's arsenal as an operational weapon."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"A considerable amount of valuable information has been obtained as the result of 13 years' operating experience at Hanford. This article, after a brief plant description, discusses personnel requirements, operating procedures, and maintenance problems of a Hanford reactor. The items covered are indicative of the types of problems to be faced by the managers of future nuclear power plants."
"PROPER VOLTAGE regulation is now becoming an increasingly important factor in efficient operation of electric power distribution systems. The degree to which a voltage regulator performs its function on these systems depends upon the accuracy and reliability of its controls. Because of fluctuating voltage conditions on most systems, the voltage-regulating and time-delay elements of the controls are subjected to many more operations than the regulator itself. A new control system has been developed employing the unique features of bistable magnetic amplifiers to perform the functions of the voltage regulating and time delay elements."
"A prerequisite for the best equipment to suit a particular requirement is a thorough knowledge of the economics, selection, application, and performance of component parts. Other factors that affect equipment reliability — engineering costs, rating of component parts, customer losses — are discussed along with a working formula for determining the cost of a part."
"New synthetic materials with improved thermal stability have brought about a new approach to insulation classification by “accepted test and experience.” The evolution of this new philosophy is reviewed with emphasis on its international aspects."
"THE SUBJECT of transcontinental telephone communications in Canada was recently reviewed in an article entitled, “Development of Transcontinental Communications in Canada,” by J. W. Noyes, G. Gaudet, and S. Bonneville, which appeared in AIEE Communications and Electronics, July 1956, and in which reference was made to the long-term relief plans of the Trans-Canada Telephone System. It was pointed out that this envisaged a coast-to-coast radio relay system carrying television and L carrier facilities. The construction of this system is now well advanced and is scheduled for completion in 1958."
"A discussion is presented of the practical effects on signal degradation of the parameters in a video transmission system. An attempt is made to establish their true significance and correlation. New video testing techniques have been established for improved and simplified methods of specification and measurement."
"INFORMATION NEEDED to determine generation schedules is similar to that used for an a-c network analyzer load flow study except that incremental cost data is used instead of generator schedules."
"THERE ARE ABOUT 48,000 radio stations in service in Canada. This is five times as many as were in existence in 1948. Canada is the third or fourth greatest user of radio among the countries of the world."
"Varied experiments proposed for the earth satellite require a very flexible telemetering system designed for maximum reliability and minimum weight and operating power requirements. A new instrumentation technique combining square hysteresis loop magnetic cores with switching transistors is discussed in the description of the magnetic telemetry encoding system."
"Precalculation of short-circuit currents is necessary in order to provide effective protection of power systems against possible short circuits. A method for determining these currents by means of a digital computer is described. Among its advantages are speed, accuracy, and the ability to be operated without highly trained professional personnel."
"Various breakdown phenomena of air insulation have been encountered in the development of an air-insulated air-blast breaker. Methods used in the location, analysis, and correction of the breakdown are described. The use of insulating material in conjunction with high-pressure air is covered briefly."
"FOR THE MANY YEARS that statistical quality control procedures have been used by the Western Electric Company in its manufacturing processes, an audit has also been made which is, in reality, a statistical evaluation of the completed telephone product being shipped from the manufacturing plants. This audit is termed “quality assurance” in the Western Electric Company. Data thus gathered are used by the Bell Laboratories in putting together a picture of quality which serves to provide the customers (operating telephone companies) with evidence that the product they receive is up to the quality standard they require. On this basis, they find, in the main, that it is possible to eliminate acceptance inspection and the associated cost on products being delivered to them by the Western Electric Company. In addition, the quality audit furnishes Western Electric management a continuing picture of manufacturing quality and has been an important factor in achieving balance between quality of product and cost of manufacturing."
"IN THE DEVELOPMENT of high-voltage cables insulated with thermoplastics or rubber, it is necessary to measure the corona onset voltage. The manometric method detects internal corona by the decrease in air pressure caused by absorption of corona-activated oxygen. The rate of pressure drop increases rapidly with voltage. By connecting a capillary oil manometer to the sample, this pressure drop can be measured. In this study, all voltages are 60 cycles rms."
"Numerous problems are involved in setting up definitive performance tests for cathode-ray tubes. The need is emphasized for absolute quantitative methods of evaluating focus problems in these tubes. In addition, those characteristics which are unique to color tubes and which present the most problems to the set designer are discussed."
"“EVERY MEMBER GET A MEMBER” will be the watchwords of AIEE “Membership Month” this November. This is the time toward which the year-round membership activities aim — the time when a program becomes an intensified effort. Each member is strongly urged to recruit at least one new member during November. An important part of this general goal is the drive to gain the membership of those engaged in electrical engineering education in the nation's colleges and universities. T h e Section Membership Committees will spearhead the drive but the co-operation of each individual is vital to make the month a success."
"THE RICHLAND (WASH.) SECTION of AIEE was host to over 600 members and students at the AIEE Pacific General Meeting, held at the Pasco Senior High School, Pasco, Wash., August 28–30, 1957. The meeting was sponsored by three Districts of the Institute — the North Central, the Pacific, and the Northwest."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE WINTER GENERAL MEETING of AIEE will be held later next year, starting February 2 and continuing to February 7, 1958. Because of the large number of technical sessions, covering all six Technical Divisions of the Institute, meetings will take place in both the Statler and the Sheraton-McAlpin Hotels, New York, N. Y. As usual the Statler Hotel will be headquarters."
"THIS YEAR, the Tenth Annual Conference on Electrical Techniques in Medicine and Biology will be held in Boston, Mass., November 6–8, at the Sheraton-Plaza Hotel. This annual meeting is sponsored by the Joint Executive Committee on Medicine and Biology of the three major electrotechnical societies of the Unites States. The purpose of this conference is to bring together electrical engineers, physicians, biologists, electronic instrumentologists, radiation physicists, physiologists, and others to discuss the latest electrical and electronic techniques in biology and medicine and to arrange symposia on current problems. The coming meeting is being sponsored by the AIEE, the Instrument Society of America, the Boston Chapter of the Professional Group on Medical Electronics of the Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE), and the Medical Physics Group of Boston who are acting as hosts to the meeting. The sessions are planned primarily as symposia in which the formal presentations are intended as preliminary steps to the stimulation of discussion and the free exchange of ideas."
"THE FOURTH ANNUAL AIEE Petroleum Industry Conference held at Philadelphia's (Pa.) Sheraton Hotel, Sept. 9–11, 1957, was an outstanding success with an attendance in excess of 400. Participants came from 21 states, Canada, and Venezuela. The conference had never before been held in the East and the response was most gratifying to all concerned with its planning. The conference chairman was A. L. R. Maynard, General Electric Company (GE), and the vice-chairman was S. P. Axe, Atlantic Refining Company."
"The Mexico Section of the AIEE celebrated its 35th anniversary at its monthly meeting in the American Club, Mexico City, Mexico, on August 30, 1957."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"The student branch of the AIEE was formed at Laval University, Quebec, Que., Canada, on June 26, 1952, Its first counselor was Lionel Boulet, director of the department of electrical engineering. The present counselor is Dr. Maurice Boisvert, who was appointed in March 1955. On March 1, 1956, the group was recognized as a joint AIEE-Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE) Branch by the two associations. The Laval Student Branch is bilingual both in its membership and in its activities. At the present time, the majority of the students are French-Canadians, but all activities such as films and seminars are carried on in English. The science faculty of the University, which includes electrical engineering, is housed in the Mining Building (right) which was built in 1941."
"“The day finally comes when you receive your coveted ‘sheepskin.’ You now become in your own eyes and in those of your potential employer, a full fledged electrical engineer. But wait, how do you plan to establish and maintain eminence in your chosen field? By getting a position? By working diligently at it? Of course, but don't stop there. Affiliate yourself with a technical society, one with the dignity and respect of the experienced engineer. Such an affiliation enables you to keep abreast of the technical times. The AIEE is such an organization. It is a service to you. Journal and Transaction publications are the daily newspapers of your field. Its planned local and national conferences provide a common meeting ground for the dissemination and exchange of ideas between you and your equals. Active participation in its activities widens your circle of acquaintances and furnishes valuable contacts. In a word, it's your club and fraternity for the many years of your professional life.”"
"Far-reaching changes in the education of engineers have been predicted by Dr. J. T. Rettaliata, president of Illinois Institute of Technology."
"THE DIRECT CONVERSION of the chemical energy of gases into electricity-long a dream of scientists and for years a laboratory curiosity — has been accomplished with the development of the first fuel cell capable of producing thousands of watts of power economically. Using hydrogen and oxygen as fuel, the new silent source of power has been developed by scientists at the Research Laboratories of National Carbon Company, Division of Union Carbide Corporation, Parma, Ohio."
"A 1,000-HP DYNAMOMETER in the research and development laboratories of the Twin Disc Clutch Company at Rochford, Ill., has been automated by Baldwin-Lima-Hamilton (B-L-H) SR-4 series instruments. (See cover.)"
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Development of a liquid-hydrogen bubble chamber more than 60 times as large as any now in use is being conducted by the University of California Radiation Laboratory (UCRL) assisted by the National Bureau of Standards (NBS). The bubble chamber is being constructed to operate with the Bevatron, the 6 billion electron volt particle accelerator at UCRL. D. B. Chelton, D. B. Mann, and B. W. Birmingham of the NBS Cryogenic Engineering Laboratory at Boulder Colo., are working on the project, which involves many, difficult and unique cryogenic engineering problems."
"Nuclear Propulsion Studies. The use of nuclear power to propel missiles of the future is under serious investigation, and will be further advanced with a powerful new atom smasher which went into use recently at the Lockheed Nuclear Laboratory at the Missile Division's research and development center located at Stanford University's industrial park, Palo Alto, Calif."
"New FM-CW radar system developed by Columbia University, New York, N.Y., scientists and engineers at the University's Electronics Research Laboratories for the U. S. Air Force raises the strength of a radar signal reflected from an aircraft or a missile “to an unprecedentedly high level” without any actual increase in the power used. This was described as being of particular significance for radar installations in regions like the Arctic, where it is extremely difficult to supply fuel and other facilities for producing large amounts of power."
"Opening up several interesting applications, some of which are already in use, is an experimental 60-kc standard frequency broadcast, begun July 1, 1956, at the Boulder (Colo.) Laboratories of the National Bureau of Standards (NBS). A. H. Morgan, chief of the Radio Broadcast Service Section of the NBS Radio Standards Laboratory, is supervising the experiment."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Areas in which the concepts of information, control, and computing theory can exert their greatest impact — memory and recall, routine calculation, and decision making — are explored. Research is urged for their application to the fields of discovery and engineering creativity."
"ALTHOUGH LOCATED 400 MILES from the Montreal industrial center and set 65 miles into wilderness, the site for the Bersimis-Lac Cassé development was chosen because it was economic and would open the eastern reaches of the St. Lawrence River to industrial growth."
"In the past five years, rapid advances have taken place in the field of nuclear power plant instrumentation. The emphasis in this article is placed on the power plant systems and on detector requirements and designs, because it is in these areas that the major differences exist between conventional and nuclear power plants."
"THE D-C MACHINE is about the most complex piece of apparatus in the rotating machinery field, mainly because of the challenging problem of commutation. In the present age of driving d-c machines to ever greater output, the necessity for a thorough understanding of the nature and causes of brush sparking has become of paramount importance."
"A CERTAIN PERCENTAGE of the faults on power systems occur simultaneously at different points in the circuits. Such faults may result from a ground at one location on a circuit which raises the voltage on a healthy phase so that a flashover occurs at a second location. Such faults may also occur on circuits which are physically close to each other, as two circuits on the same poles which flash over because of the same lightning disturbance. It has been estimated that up to 20% of faults on double-circuit lines involve conductors of both circuits."
"One of the most difficult incremental costs to evaluate in steam-electric generating stations is that of maintenance costs. A number of methods for determining these costs are described which, although not highly accurate, are very useful. Because the magnitude of maintenance costs is relatively small with respect to over-all costs, however, an error in their determination does not affect the over-all cost figures appreciably."
"The USSR is a country of terrific contrasts. She is dynamic and earnest in her attempt to catch up and surpass the United States industrially. The author believes that with proper organization and management techniques she could “explode” industrially within the next decade or two."
"The different bandwidth requirements for the various inputs from the transducers in the earth satellite led to a system which is a combination of time-sharing and frequency-sharing telemetry. To illustrate, a simple three-channel system is first described. This is then extended to cover the 48-channel system."
"As an example of how information from various sources can be assembled into useful form for the operating engineer, a guide on system grounding techniques is presented. In addition to the initial establishment of grounds, a definite inspection and maintenance procedure which will assure adequate protection of personnel and equipment is recommended."
"Engineering problems associated with the remote handling of radiation sources are discussed together with the human engineering involved in evaluating the demands the system makes on the operator."
"ONE OF THE MAJOR PROBLEMS in the transmission of color television signals, of the National Television System Committee type in present use, is that of securing satisfactory differential phase and gain characteristics."
"A method of measuring frequency transients is presented in which the original frequency is first multiplied, then fed through a tuned discriminator and filtered without removing or smoothing the transients. A device is described using this means to test an airborne hydraulic constant speed drive for a 400-cps alternator."
"ACCURATE MEASUREMENTS in voltage ratios and phase angles are essential in computer applications. A method of verifying these measurements, to an accuracy of 0.005% in voltage ratio and 0.2 minute in phase angle at frequencies of 100 to 10,000 cps, is described."
"FROM STUDIES of the mathematical aspects of the three most important and interrelated elements of Fixed Charge rates in terms of Original Cost, namely: return, depreciation, and those taxes which are directly dependent upon such return and upon the treatment accorded depreciation in their computations, it has become evident that the heretofore advocated technique of levelization of their basically variable nature with time is only a special case of much more fundamental considerations. Furthermore, in the conventional approach, some of the individual components of the total rate of Fixed Charges do not describe properly their own economic significance. The formulas which were developed by the new approach, however, express each individual component in a manner descriptive of its own economic nature."
"THIS YEAR the Sheraton-McAlpin Hotel, as well as the Statler Hotel, will be used for technical sessions and committee meetings in connection with the AIEE Winter General Meeting, February 2–7, 1958."
"OVER 1,900 MEMBERS, their wives, and guests attended the AIEE Fall General Meeting, held October 7–11, 1957, at the Morrison Hotel, Chicago, Ill."
"THE FORUM of Technical Committee Chairmen held in Chicago, III., on October 3, 1957, was educational in nature as is customary for the first meeting in the administrative year. Hendley Blackmon, chairman of the Technical Operations Department, conducted a panel comprised of the six Technical Division chairmen, each of whom presented an important aspect of committee procedure. The sights for the meeting were set by President W. J. Barrett, the first speaker, who outlined in five points the functions of technical committees and the aids to the ac complishment of objectives as follows:"
"THE AIEE BOARD OF DIRECTORS held its customary Fall meeting during the 1957 AIEE Fall General Meeting in Chicago, Ill, on October 11, 1957. Present at the meeting were 25 members and 5 Department Chairmen. W. J. Barrett, president of AIEE, wras in the chair."
"THE NEW United Engineering Center will be erected on United Nations Plaza between 47th and 48th Streets in New York City."
"Sponsored by the AIEE, Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE), the American Society for Quality Control (ASQC), and Electronic Industries Association, the 4th National Symposium on Reliability and Quality Control will be held January 6–8, 1958, at the Hotel Statler in Washington, DC, USA."
"The second Special Technical Conference on Magnetic Amplifiers was held on September 4–6, 1957, at the Penn-Sheraton Hotel in Pittsburgh, Pa. Over 400 engineers attended technical sessions and viewed exhibits at the three-day conference."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"FOUNDED IN 1905 as the “Electrical Club,” the AIEE appeared on the campus of the Case Institute of Technology, Cleveland, Ohio, as a Student Branch in 1920. At present, the organization meets once every two weeks. Special meetings are called mainly for inspection tours of Cleveland area industrial plants."
"Some years ago, the sister of Karl Compton, whose husband was the head of an educational institution abroad, was having her house wired by a native electrician who constantly came to her with questions such as “Where do you want the wires?” “How many plugs?” “Do you want three-way switches?” She finally said, “Oh, you know what I want, just use your common sense.” He replied politely: “Madam, common sense is a gift of God. I have only a technical education.”"
"The U. S. Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) and the University of Puerto Rico recently signed a contract for the operation of a new Nuclear Training Center to be constructed in Puerto Rico by the AEC."
"The AIEE offers a lasting tie between the electrical engineering educator and his chosen field of endeavor. Through the Student Branches, it offers the educator tremendous opportunity to stimulate young men to be professionally conscious and to influence their thoughts toward personal growth and professional development. It offers continuous opportunity to stress the importance of never losing sight of the code of principles of professional conduct. The educator has neverending opportunity to point out to his students that the AIEE is a progressive, productive, dynamic organization and that active participation in its affairs can enrich their professional stature."
"The Vocational Guidance Committee of the Ridgway Section of AIEE recently gathered to congratulate the winners of the 1957 Elk County Engineering Scholarships. This year, the committee awarded, after competitive examinations were given, a scholarship of $1,200 for a four-year period to J. W. Smith of St. Marys Public High School, St. Marys, Pa., and an $800 scholarship for a four-year period to Robert Steger of St. Leo's Catholic High School, Ridgway, Pa."
"The National Science Foundation (NSF) has announced that applications are now being accepted in four NSF fellowship programs for advanced study and research in the natural sciences. The four fellows hip programs are: (1) a predoctoral fellowship program for which college seniors and graduate science students may apply; (2) a postdoctoral fellowship program for scientists who have already received the doctoral degree: (3) a senior postdoctoral fellowship program for candidates who have held the science doctorate for a minimum of five years; and (4) a science faculty fellowship program for college teachers of science who wish to improve their competence as teachers."
"THE INTENSE HEATING of aircraft and missiles flashing through Earth's atmosphere at speeds above 5,000 miles per hour imposes structural design problems. At supersonic speeds, air vehicles must withstand temperatures above 2,500 F. To investigate and overcome structural limitations, the Westinghouse Electric Corporation has developed a complete elevated-temperature test facility."
"UNITED STATES participation in the International Geophysical Year (IGY) program is planned and directed by the United States National Committee, which was organized by the National Academy of Sciences — National Research Council (NASNRC) and is under the chairmanship of Dr. Joseph Kaplan. A. H. Shapley, chief of the National Bureau of Standards (NBS) Sun-Earth Relationships Section, is vicechairman of the U. S. National Committee, and one of the three American scientists that are members of the international committee (Comité Special Année Géophysique Internationale)."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A new technique for taking “heat pictures” was unveiled by Dr. R.B. Barnes called the Far Infrared Camera to take heat pictures, or thermal photographs, by photographing the infrared radiation or heat given off by objects. Heat pictures differ from conventional photographs which use the visible light reflected by all objects. The camera detects the infrared radiation and converts it into black-and-white photographs. Each point on the photographic image indicates the heat being emitted by that point and can be converted into temperature readings."
"Economic Civilian Nuclear Power. The Organic Moderated Reactor Experiment (OMRE) developed for the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) by Atomics International, a Division of North American Aviation, Inc., has been placed in operation at the AEC National Reactor Testing Station in Idaho."
"Defense Honors to RCA. Major General R. J. Browne, USAF, presented the Defense Department Reserve Award, including an official citation and a display pennant, to T. A. Smith, executive vice-president, RCA Industrial Electronic Products, at a ceremony in Camden, N. J."
"Thirty feet above ground, a 3/8-inch “hot spot” of concentrated sunlight is providing up to 6,000 F of solar heat to assist scientists in various research tasks at the Stanford Research Institute (SRI). It is the focal point of a new solar furnace which will enable the staff at SRI to conduct certain experiments not possible or convenient with other heat sources."
"A conference called by the national standards bodies of Canada, Great Britain, and the United States assembled in Toronto, Ont., Canada, October 7–11, 1957, to achieve a tripartite international accord on drafting practices. The announcement, made by Vice-Admiral G. F. Hussey, Jr., USN (Ret.), managing director of the American Standards Association (ASA), voluntary national standards body for United States commerce, industry, Government, and consumer interests, stated that 21 delegates from ASA were to attend the ABC Conference on the “Unification of Drafting Practice.”"
"American Society of Mechanical Engineers The president of a large engineering society said that the engineering profession is “bursting at the seams and will fly apart,” unless steps are taken to analyze problems facing the profession and remedy the situation. W. F. Ryan, president of the 50,000-member The American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), expressed his opinion during a luncheon address at the Fall Meeting of ASME which was held at the Hotel Statler, Hartford, Conn."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The In stitute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, inform ation for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Engineering developments during 1956 have been numerous and significant. Many of these have been reported by various committees within the six AIEE Technical Divisions."
"As the engineer assumes a more and more important role in industry, it becomes increasingly evident that harmonious relationships with management are essential. Results are given of a survey on this subject conducted among more than 800 engineers in some of the larger American corporations."
"IT is expected that extensive application of bundled conductors will be made to extra high voltage lines of the future when considered in terms of the successful operation of present lines which are so equipped. In particular, lines equipped with bundled conductors have been found to perform very favorably with regard to the production of corona and radio interference. Hence, an analysis of the radio interference characteristics of bundled conductors should be of considerable interest to those concerned with the design of the transmission lines of the future."
"The Syncroscan∗ system, a new approach to the problem of centralized traffic control, retains relay coding equipment, with its inherent reliability, for transmitting control information to the field. In addition, it uses an electronic scanning system to provide the speed and capacity necessary to report up-to-the-moment information from hundreds of miles of railroad."
"This newly designed video system provides high-quality local wire channels to interconnect television studios, transmitters, and other operating points. This article describes the system, showing typical applications, performance, and operating characteristics."
"In an address presented primarily to technical writers and editors, the editor of a well-known technical publication stresses the importance of the effective dissemination of ideas in the fields of engineering and science."
"At present, it is the general practice to apply lightning protective equipment at the terminals of large unit-connected generators. There is a hesitation on the part of industry to omit protective equipment, even though analysis of the problem indicates that no protection is needed. This is primarily because the cost of the added insurance or protective devices is trivial when compared with the investment in a large machine, the expense of damage to the machine, and the expense of the loss of a large unit of generating capacity."
"The rehabilitation and the modernization of any organization—industrial, transportation, commercial—is usually of interest. When such an organization is a railroad handling 285,000 passengers per day, its rehabilitation and modernization become a matter of more than usual interest. Such is the case of the Long Island Rail Road which emerged from receivership on August 12, 1954 as a redevelopment corporation, committed to bringing its property and operations up to modern standards."
"The speed-torque characteristics of a motor are established by the design parameters and the quality of the motor components. The speed-torque curve can be used to detect bad design factors and defective construction of a motor. Improper rotor heat treatment, wrong skew, poor slot combination, erratic switching of single-phase motors, and similar conditions are factors which can be recognized. To obtain speed-torque curves by means of a load test, point by point, is tedious, expensive, and not always sufficiently revealing."
"The existence of resonant frequency in a vertical motor at or near its running speed is difficult to predict by calculation in many practical applications, especially when formed by the combination of a machine and its coupled load. An actual case of this type of vertical system is illustrated in this article."
"The problem of analyzing simultaneous unbalances which occurs from time to time in otherwise balanced power systems has been given attention by a number of investigators. Methods of analysis which have been proposed and used include direct calculations using appropriate equations.1,5 Generally this approach is rather laborious for a complex system, although with the rapid advances in the use of digital computers it is to be expected that this approach will become increasingly favored. A systematic approach to setting up the basic equations and constraints for the problems has recently appeared.3,4"
"Through construction and operation of a pilot reactor, valuable information will be gained on the subject of sodium graphite reactor systems, designed to produce electric power from nuclear energy economically. The principles, features, and safety considerations of this type system are discussed."
"The Chairman of the AIEE Technical Operations Department presents a proposal for changing the organizational structure of the Institute to provide a closer relationship between the Technical Groups of the Sections and the Technical Committees."
"The AIEE Winter General Meeting, to be held at the Hotel Statler (meeting headquarters) and the Hotel Sheraton-McAlpin, New York, N. Y., January 21–25, 1957, will feature one of the largest technical programs in the history of the Institute. The social activities, for which the Winter General Meeting is well known, will again be outstanding. A group of varied and interesting inspection trips has been arranged closely allied with the technical sessions."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The second national Conference on Magnetism and Magnetic Materials, sponsored by the AIEE in co-operation with the American Physical Society, the American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical and Petroleum Engineers, and the Institute of Radio Engineers, was held October 16–18, 1956, at the Hotel Statler, Boston, Mass."
"Volume 75 of the 1956 AIEE Transactions bound in cloth with gold embossed lettering will be made available during March and April in three parts as follows: Part I. Communication and Electronics, Part II. Applications and Industry part III power Apparatus and systems."
"The 1957 Western Joint Computer Conference will be held at the Hotel Statler, Lot Angeles, Calif., February 26–28, 1957. The conference will be under the joint sponsorship of the AIEE, the Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE), and the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM). The theme of the meeting will be “Techniques for Reliability.”"
"The AIEE conference on Machine Tools was held in Cincinnati, Ohio, October 22–24, 1956. “This Eighth Annual Conference was most successful,” reports Chairman R. E. Stroppel, plant engineer, Tool Steel Gear & Pinion Company, Cincinnati, Ohio. The attendance was 692. Although this was almost identical to the 1954 attendance of 691 in Detroit, Mich., it was, in reality, a significant increase since the local registration from Cincinnati totalled only 100 while the Detroit local registration totalled 200."
"UNITED ENGINEERING TRUSTEES, INC., the joint corporate agency of the four major national engineering societies, has signed a contract for preliminary architectural plans and studies for a new Engineering Center in mid-Manhattan, New York, N. Y. This is the first definite step toward construction of what is expected to make New York the “engineering capital of the world.”"
"Conference papers listed below have been accepted for AIEE Transactions and are now open for written discussion until January 30. Duplicate doublespaced typewritten copies of each discussion should be sent to E. C. Day, Assistant Secretary for Technical Papers, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, 33 West 39th St., New York 18, N. Y., on or before January 30."
"Editor's Note: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y."
"Edward Roche Coulbourn (M '39), engineering manager, Alabama Power Company, Birmingham, Ala., has been transferred to the grade of Fellow in the AIEE “… for his achievements in the design of an extensive electric production, transmission, and distribution system.” Mr. Coulbourn was born in Birmingham, Ala., May 27, 1902. He recived a B. S. degree in M. E. from the Universiay of Alabama in 1923. From 1924 to 1925, he was with the Alabama Power Company as an engineer, Office of Distribution. During the years 1925 to 1932, he was employed first by the Dixie Construction Company and then by Allied Engineers as a distribution engineer. He assumed that same position with the Alabama Power Company in 1932. He was made senior engineer—transmission and distribution in 1937, chief electrical engineer in 1946, and engineering manager in 1951. In his present position he is responsible for the direction of generation, transmission, and distribution studies required for a large and rapidly growing power company, including administration of electrical, mechanical, structural, and architectural engineering. The scope of activities includes planning and design of system additions, economic comparisons of alternative plans, general technical engineering, methods, and standards. Mr. Coulbourn served as chairman of the Alabama Section, 1943–44 and as vice-chairman of the Membership Committee of District 4, 1951–53. He has served on the following Institute Committees Transmission and Distribution (1948–57) and Membership (1951–55)."
"J. W. Barker (M '26, F '30), chairman of the Board and president of the Research Corporation, has been elected president of Engineers Joint Council (EJC) for 1957, and F. S. Black (AM '34, M '44), publisher and editor of Electrical World magazine, has been elected vice-president of EJC. Dr. Barker is a graduate of Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in electrical engineering. He served as professor at MIT and at Lehigh University, and later as dean of engineering, Columbia University. He left the latter position to serve as special assistant to the Secretary of the Navy from 1941 to 1945. In 1945, he became president of the Research Corporation. Dr. Barker is a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, American Society of Mechanical Engineers, American Society of Chemical Engineers, American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical and Petroleum Engineers, and the American Society for Engineering Education. Mr. Black, born in Bryson City, N. C, is a graduate of the University of North Carolina with a B. S. degree in E. E. He is also a graduate of the National University Law School and holder of a masters' degree in patent law. Since 1945, he has been active in various capacities with the AIEE, and has also been a member of the Board of Directors and chairman of the Planning Committee of EJC. From 1948 to 1954, he was editor-in-chief of Electrical World, his previous association being that of assistant to the president, Potomac Electrical Power Company, Washington, D. C."
"Mortimer Freund (AM '07, M '12, Member for Life), member of the firm, Eadie, Freund, and Campbell, Consulting Engineers, died recently. Following his graduation as an electrical engineer from Columbia University in 1906, Mr. Freund gained experience with the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Company from 1906 to 1907. He was next employed at the Brooklyn (N. Y.) Navy Yard until 1910. He then joined the staff of P. R. Moses where he was in responsible charge of consulting engineering problems. In 1914, he joined with J. G. Eadie and J. K. Campbell to form the consulting engineering firm of Eadie, Freund, and Campbell. This partnership lasted unchanged for 42 years until his death. The firm designed complete utility systems for buildings of all types."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of November 15, 1956, recommended the following applications for transfer. Any objections to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"THE Fenn College AIEE Branch was established in February 1949, shortly after the electrical engineering curriculum was approved by Engineers Council for Professional Development in 1948. Prof. R. W. Schindler, chairman of the department, has served as branch adviser since its inception."
"THE ANNUAL MEETING of the District 2 Student Activities Committee was held at Lafayette College, October 19–20, 1956. After the opening remarks by Prof. F. W. Smith, counselor, Lafayette College Joint Student Branch, as host counselor, the official college welcome was extended by Dr. R. C. Hutchison, president of Lafayette College. He spoke of the need for physical and administrative facilities to cope with modern engineering trends, and of the need for understanding of social relations and behavior among skilled technological men."
"Membership in the AIEE has meant a great deal to me, individually and as an educator. First of all, it stands for all the fine things in a noble profession. It is, so to speak, the guiding light that lights up the paths of professional dignity, professional progress, and inspiration. The AIEE through its many committees, its Winter General Meeting, Summer General Meeting, the District Meetings, and Section Meetings, affords one the opportunity to meet on a common footing the real leaders in the electrical engineering field. To me it has been a great satisfaction and real inspiration to have known such giants as C. P. Steinmetz, M. I. Pupin, B. G. Lamme, C. F. Scott, and many others who have passed on. This pleasure and profit could never have been enjoyed except through the activities of the AIEE. It is a great profession, and a great Institute and I am most proud to be affiliated with both."
"The University of Rochester announced that it will expand its Division of Engineering by adding a four-year undergraduate program in electrical engineering beginning September 1957. Students also will have the option of a five-year course in which they may obtain both a B.S. degree in E.E. and a B.A. degree with a major in a liberal arts field."
"The Missouri School of Mines Joint Student Branch, AIEE-Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE), has held two branch meetings, served as host for the St. Louis Section's annually sponsored banquet for the Branches of that Section, and sponsored a field trip for members to installations around Jefferson City, Mo."
"THE NATION'S FIRST privately owned Nuclear Research Center was announced recently by Dr. Clyde Williams, president, director of Battelle. The announcement followed initial “start-up” of the Institute's one-mill ion-watt research reactor."
"THE MOST HIGHLY COVETED award in the world is given annually by the Swedish Royal Academy. On November 1, 1956, the names of the winners of the Nobel Prize in Physics were announced as Dr. W. H. Brattain, Dr. John Bardeen, and Dr. William Shockley. The award was made to these three men because they were instrumental in the “investigations on semi-conductors and the discovery of the transistor effect.”"
"A sweeping plan for improvement of the nation's air traffic control system was announced recently by the Civil Aeronautics Administration (CAA). An order for 2 long-range radars, biggest single purchase of electronic equipment in the agency's history, was placed. The radars are the heart of a CAA plan announced last April by Secretary of Commerce Sinclair Weeks. The plan is designed to handle a fourfold increase in US air traffic with minimum delay and maximum safety. These radars will help CAA controllers accomplish this improvement by scanning the skies for all aircraft up to 200 miles away, depending on size and altitude. The equipment will be designed and built by the Raytheon Manufacturing Company of Waltham, MA, USA, at an approximate cost of US$9 million. These radars will be installed at 23 major cities."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"New air navigation equipment, which can be combined with existing equipment to comprise a complete system that gives distance and direction information to pilots of fast commercial or private planes and which is of major importance to air safety, has been announced by the Federal Telephone and Radio Company, Clifton, NJ, USA a division of International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation."
"The USS Ranger (CVA-61), another addition to the U. S. Navy's increasing fleet of attack aircraft carriers, became the eighth vessel in the Navy to bear this name—but the most powerfully propelled of them all."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reje∗∗∗ct them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters, submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The concept of systems engineering is explained in terms of its evolution and characteristics. The engineering of a color television system and of a specific weapons system are used to illustrate its application."
"THE SIZE AND NUMBER of carbon brushes required for current-collection systems are usually determined from some arbitrary selection of current density in the brush face. For critical designs where limited space requires high surface velocities and high current densities, such a method has proved to be inadequate. On many of these designs, the ultimate capacity of the brushes has been reached and some have exceeded the capacities of certain brush grades."
"A comprehensive report is presented on the subject of electric heating, from the standpoint of both the consumer and the power company. Various types of electric heating for the home are discussed and compared on a cost basis."
"Some of the more common applications of digital computers in the electrical utility field are discussed. The emphasis is placed not only on their present-day uses, but also on their possible future utilization."
"Tests on animals indicate that eyes exposed to microwave radiation may develop cataracts. The design of protective goggles, utilizing transparent microwave shielding, is discussed."
"The utilization of adjustable-voltage drives in ore bridges and unloaders provides a number of outstanding advantages. A description is given of two new machines employing this type drive currently in use at the McLouth Steel Corporation plant in Trenton, Mich."
"Methods currently being used for determining equipment life require extensive research and analyses, much of which cannot readily be adapted to solution on electronic computers. The proposed method, based upon the use of a parabolic frequency distribution of failures, eliminates most of the research and provides for solution on either desk calculators or digital machines."
"INCREASED USAGE of radio teletypewriter communication has widened the demand for facilities for multiplexing teletypwriter channels on a single radio circuit, for economy of frequency spectrum and equipment. Many of the potential applications of multiplex require smaller and lighter equipment than heretofore available, with unusually high reliability. The developmental transistorized 4-channel time division multiplex equipment designed to meet this potential demand is functionally similar to, and compatible with, the AN/FGC-5 electronic multiplex, which has been in general use since 1950 on long-haul high-frequency radio circuits. In all active electronic functions such as switching and amplification, as well as in the power supply, only solid-state devices are employed. There are no vacuum tubes in the set. This equipment is designed to be an integral part of a time division multiplex system wherein two, three, or four start-stop telegraph channels are combined for transmission over a common communication circuit."
"AN ANALOG COMPUTER or differential analyzer programmed for a system of linear differential equations ideally exhibits solutions of the mathematical problem. Such performance necessarily can only be approximated, inasmuch as the networks in an electronic analog machine are far more complex than the mathematical problem equations to be solved imply."
"A method of induction motor speed control, utilizing feedback-controlled saturable reactors in series with the motor windings, is described and evaluated. Advantages include an inherent ability to hold the desired speed, whether or not the load requires motor or braking torque."
"THE CONTROVERSY over the relative merits of outdoor and indoor generating stations will probably persist for a long time, but for the Houston (Tex.) Lighting & Power Company the question has been resolved definitely in favor of outdoor plants. This decision is based on its own experience in pioneering the development of the outdoor design in the Texas Gulf Coast area."
"The reader is introduced to some of the main points of semiconductor phenomena. Concepts of wave properties of electrons, discrete energy levels, free electrons in metals, and band theory of solids, show how semiconductors differ from metals and insulators. This is followed by a discussion of doping to create impurity conduction (n and p type), and of the relationship of conductivity to carrier concentration, life-time, and mobility."
"A SPECIALLY DEVISED METHOD using the Blondel load-back principle of loss measurement has been employed to measure the stray load loss in d-c machines. An inherently accurate value of the loss is obtained by measuring it as two separate components by a method which is direct and easy to perform."
"WHEN ALTERNATING CURRENT flows in the coil turns of a typical induction heating load, such as shown in Fig. 1, three components of magnetic flux are established, i.e. (1) in the workpiece, (2) in the air gap, and (3) in the copper of the coil turns. This is characteristic of any induction heating load regardless of shape, size, or frequency, and a general equation can be written for total flux linking the coil turns in terms of the magnetizing force H∗∗∗0 established at the surface of the work. The rate of change of total flux determines the voltage Ec which must be applied to oppose the counter electromotive force and establish the field intensity H∗∗∗0. The current which flows in the coil consists of two components: the one proportional to and in phase with H∗∗∗0, and the other proportional to and in phase with the product of total flux Φ∗∗∗0 and the reluctance of the external flux path. The first is the current which would flow if the external reluctance were negligible (long coil), and its ampere-turns are reflected exactly in the induced current in the workpiece. The second simply supplies the external magnetic drop and its ampere-turns are not reflected in the workpiece."
"Normalized detail content of transmitted TV scenes is less than 5 per cent compared with artificial subjects, indicating observer preference influences the transmitted subject. Verification tests were devised involving reading, character, and object recognition in precisely measured periods. To evaluate the perception rate in bits, a link is sought between the Gestalt concept and the binary choices."
"PEACETIME USES of atomic energy will be the topic of the 1957 Nuclear Congress, scheduled for March 11–15, 1957, at Convention Hall, Philadelphia, Pa., under the co-ordination of Engineers Joint Council (EJC). The session will bring together leaders in science, engineering, industry, Government, education, agriculture, and other fields."
"THE 1957 Transistor and Solid-State Circuits Conference to be held February 14–15, at the University of Pennsylvania, is sponsored jointly by the Science and Electronics Technical Division of the AIEE, the Philadelphia Section of the Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE), the IRE Professional Group on Circuit Theory, and the University of Pennsylvania. Patterned after the previous conferences helcj at the same location for the past several years, this conference will include information on both linear and nonlinear transistor circuits. Also, one session will be devoted to other solid-state circuits, including ferroelectrics and magnetic cores. Two tutorial sessions are aimed at surveying recent advances in the subject and will provide the practicing engineer in solid-state circuitry a broader picture of the state of the art."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Conference papers listed below have been accepted for AIEE Transactions and are now open for written discussion until March 1. Duplicate doublespaced typewritten copies of each discussion should be sent to E. C. Day, Assistant Secretary for Technical Papers, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, 33 West 39th St., New York 18, N. Y., on or before March 1."
"The Industrial Power Rectifier Committee and the Metallic Rectifier Committee of AIEE are sponsoring a joint conference with the Chicago Section on Rectifier Equipments as they are presently applied to fulfill industry's need for d-c power. The conference will be held at the Morrison Hotel, Chicago, 111., June 4–5, 1957."
"EDITOR'S NOTE: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S, Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y."
"G. W. Clothier (AM '36, M '42), manager, transformer department, Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Company, Milwaukee, Wis., has been appointed manager of Allis-Chalmers motor and generator department. Mr. Clothier is an electrical engineering graduate of the University of Washington. He had been manager of Allis-Chalmers transformer department since 1947. Prior to that he had been engineer-in-charge of transformer sales for six years. He joined Allis-Chalmers in 1936. Mr. Clothier is a member of the Engineers' Society of Milwaukee. He served on the AIEE Committee on Transformers. (1947–52)."
"Henry Vander Bogert Erben (M '43), retired vice-president of the General Electric Company, died recently at the age of 58. Mr. Erben was born in Schenectady, N. Y. He was graduated from Yale University's Sheffield Scientific School in 1919 with a degree in mechanical engineering. He joined the General Electric Company in 1920 as a student engineer on the Test Course. In 1923, he was transferred to the Apparatus Division of the central station department. In 1939, after successive promotions, he was appointed assistant manager of the central station department and two years later he was made general manager. In 1948, Mr. Erben was elected vice-president and general manager of the apparatus department. He was named executive vice-president in 1951 and in 1954 he was appointed to head the newly formed Distribution Group."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of December 20, 1956, recommended the following applications for transfer. Any objections to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"THE STUDENT BRANCH of the AIEE at Ohio Northe∗∗∗fn University, Ada, Ohio, was founded in 1912. It enjoys the dual distinction of being both the oldest technical society on the campus and the first AIEE Student Branch in the State of Ohio."
"THE SECOND in a series of grants in support of computation centers and research in numerical analysis has been announced by A. T. Waterman, director of the National Science Foundation. Grants totaling $230,000 were awarded as follows: Cornell University, $50,000; University of California (Berkeley), $50,000; University of Pennsylvania, $70,000; Princeton University, $40,000; and Stanford University, $20,000."
"MANY SERVOMECHANISMS can be represented by the block diagram shown below with A's and B's equal to 1. It is frequently necessary to extend the frequency bandwidth over which the output is approximately equal to the input and to decrease the difference between the input and output of the servomechanism by modification of the system. This may be accomplished by inserting lag and lead networks for A's and B's in the block diagram, respectively. The design problem is then one of determining the circuit parameters of the lead and lag networks."
"THERE IS a new swimming pool reactor at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI), which has a small radioactive cobalt pipe at the bottom emitting hundreds of billions of lethal gamma rays every second."
"The young engineer entering the world of commerce and industry today is presented with opportunities in number, breadth, and depth never encountered by other generations entering our profession. As a matter of fact, your services are actively solicited. Most of you won't have to ‘look’ for a job."
"Applications are now being accepted for participation in the program of special fellowships in nuclear energy technology recently announced by the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission (AEC). The program has been established by the AEC to encourage qualified students to pursue courses of study in the fields of nuclear science and engineering. The fellowships are part of the AEC general program of assistance in the field of education, with the goal of lessening the manpower shortage in the area of nuclear energy technology."
"The American Society for Testing Materials (ASTM) is now offering to colleges and universities at 80 per cent discount from the list prices the X-ray diffraction Data Card File published by ASTM. Discount is offered ori the basis that the card file will be used for classroom instruction. A certification to this effect will be necessary in order for the special discount to apply."
"Seven national awards in engineering education will be given by the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE) at its 1957 Annual Meeting at Cornell University, June 17–21."
"The first installment of a gift in memory of the late Major E. H. Armstrong (HM '53) has keen made to Columbia University by the Armstrong Memorial Research Foundation, Inc."
"Working with invisible iron “dust,” researchers have created a revolutionary and potentially superstrong magnet at the General Electric Company."
"TRANSMISSION and reception of radio signals are frequently and drastically influenced by “upper-atmosphere clutter” due to reflection from meteor and auroral ionization. As a result of such problems, Stanford Research Institute's (SRI) Special Techniques Group has embarked on a research program to gather information about the reflections of very-high frequency (VHF) and ultrahigh frequency (UHF) radio signals from meteoric and auroral ionization."
"Science has found a way to burn up cooking smells like those of boiling cabbage, frying onions, or even charred steaks and chops before they get out of the pot or pan. Grease, accustomed to flying like a homing pigeon to kitchen walls and ceilings, is destroyed in the same operation."
"Revised De classification Guide. A tripartite agreement to declassify additional information essential to the development of a civilian nuclear industry has been made between the United States, Great Britain, and Canada. The information available in the new Guide relates to all phases of nuclear power from ore recovery and fabrication of fuel elements to the design and operation of plants for the chemical recycling of spent fuel elements from civilian reactors."
"All well-informed persons realize that unknown truths are probably as numerous as the known ones. But nobody has yet attempted to explore in detail what remains to be done in each and every area of knowledge. That is what we propose to do."
"Year-round residential and commercial air conditioning has been packaged into a new heat pump designed to cut both first cost and operating cost for such equipment and to reduce space needed indoors to a minimum."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Dr. J. H. Rushton, professor of chemical engineering, Purdue University, has been elected 1957 President of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChE), it was announced at the 49th Annual Meeting of the AIChE in the Statler Hotel, Boston, Mass."
"The U. S. Army Signal Corps and the Bell Telephone System opened to public service today a new and important communications link between the United States and the growing Territory of Alaska. The link consists of an underwater telephone cable system stretching some 1,250 miles from Port Angeles, Wash., to Skagway, Alaska."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"In his address at the AIEE Winter General Meeting, President Coover emphasizes the need for more guidance in the initial education of the individual. The contribution made by the individual to the arts and to society thus will be greatly enhanced"
"In today's world, the scientist and engineer need to stand as intelligent, liberally educated men regarding knowledge as a particularized competence which, in their general wisdom, can be shared with the rest of society."
"Some of the more important aspects of system standardization for main-line railroad electrification in the United States are discussed. Investigation has shown that the commercial-frequency system appears to have enough advantages to justify its recommendation for American railroads."
"THE MECHANISM OF AMPLIFICATION of the self-saturating magnetic amplifier, in general, consists of its flux control of the magnetic core. In order to control the flux level in the core, the core loss must be supplied from the control circuit during the control half-cycle of the specific core. In order to demonstrate the correlation between the input power and the reset core loss in the case of the half-wave magnetic amplifier circuit, the authors introduce a mathematical model which leads to a simplified method of circuit analysis, though the actual phenomena are rather complicated. The simplified analysis assumes the reset half cycle can be closely represented by a synchronous switch in the circuit during the time the gate circuit is open. The core characteristics during the resetting interval are assumed to be those of a rectangular hysteresis loop material in which the variation of the dynamic hysteresis loop is proportional to the rate of the core flux change, i.e.,"
"SULFUR HEXAFLUORIDE GAS ( SF6)is found to have significant advantages both as a dielectric and as an interrupting medium. The unique characteristics of this gas make it particularly useful in switching high voltage capacitor banks and unloaded transmission lines. Experimental knowledge of the dielectric recovery of simple arc gaps in SF6 provides the possibility of straightforward quantitative design."
"Much has been written lately about the serious shortage of young engineers in the electric utility industry. The author points out a number of reasons why he believes the industry itself has failed to meet the problem realistically."
"Bell System Speakerphone provides hands free telephony. Messages are received over a loudspeaker and transmitted over a microphone located a convenient distance away. Design techniques and components of the Speakerphone are described. Customer satisfaction is indicated."
"AN APPARATUS for the measurement of total hemispherical emissivity of stranded conductor was recently developed. A measurement is made by suspending the specimen in the center of an evacuated chamber, heating the specimen, and taking a cooling curve. New stranded aluminum conductors have emissivity values of about 20 to 25% (per cent); old, weathered conductors may have emissivities of 90% or higher. Data tending to confirm the values of emissivity obtained are presented in the form of actual temperature rises of several sizes of stranded conductor under controlled conditions. It is shown that the values of convected heat loss obtained by subtracting calculated radiated heat loss from the measured I2r input to the conductor check very closely for both new and blackened conductors."
"During the past 20 years the world has been aware of electromagnetic radiation from the universe. Numerous institutes exist in a number of countries for exploration of this radiation. The Federal Republic of Germany has now set up a radio telescope with an antenna diameter of 25 meters for research on the 21-cm radiation of interstellar hydrogen. Precision of reflector construction and servo technique are unusual."
"IN RECENT YEARS there has been a large increase in the number of communication, telemetering, pilot wire relay, and other control circuits required by power utilities in Canada. Service continuity on these circuits is of prime importance, and neutralizing transformers are required in many cases to maintain this continuity and to prevent damage to the circuits or terminal apparatus as the result of ground potential rise."
"The background of the vacuum switch is reviewed briefly with a view to the development of an improved concept of its capabilities and limitations in power switching. In addition, specific electric utility problems to which the vacuum switch currently seems to be applicable are proposed."
"Characteristics of Supermendur, a new vanadium-iron-cobalt alloy with exceptional magnetic properties, are discussed. Advantages include low coercive force, low hysteresis loss, high permeability, and high remanence. This material promises to be of value in telephone receiver diaphragms, miniaturization, high-temperature applications, and switching and memory devices."
"Industrial laboratories are playing an increasingly important role in providing manufacturers with information needed in the design, development, and production of better products. The function and operation of the General Electric Company's new Industry Control Laboratory are described."
"THE RAPID GROWTH in the utilization of electric energy and the importance of continuity of service has increased the application of protective relays. This magnifies the problems of space, which is already at a premium in many existing stations and an increasingly costly item in new stations. A critical examination indicated that considerable savings in space could be effected in many of the relay designs and still improve accessibility to the relay operating units. Consequently, a major redesign program was undertaken to provide these advantages and also to incorporate many other technical improvements. Along with the concept of reduced size, other important concepts were given renewed emphasis in this redesign program. These were (1) designs built around a minimum number of standard basic units, (2) self-containing each relay type within the relay housing, (3) unit designs of self-aligning parts, (4) minimum adjustments, and (5) designs for universal application to reduce varieties. These concepts form the basic design philosophies underlying the new lines of relay cases: the induction-time overcurrent, directional-time overcurrent, and induction-time voltage relays described in this article. The results are compact modern protective relays of reliable performance and minimum maintenance."
"The “how” and “why” of a new method of telemetering in the pipeline industry, using supervisory or centralized control equipment, is described. Digital telemetering offers considerable promise in terms of accuracy, reliability of data transmission, minimum communications channel requirements, and ease of utilization of data in retransmission or computation."
"Electric shocks of the order of 0.1 ampere can throw the heart into a twitching state of ventricular fibrillation. Several amperes, on the other hand, simply contract the heart and paralyze the breathing which artificial respiration can relieve, Ventricular fibrillation, however, can be ended only by sending sufficient current through the heart by electrodes on the skin of the chest."
"The mountain sheep-pleasant valley project is located in the rugged, mountainous section of the Snake River, immediately downstream from the Idaho Power Company's Hell's Canyon site. The ultimate development will add 1,446 megawatts to the Northwest Power Pool which faces a possible shortage of power after 1960. The Pleasant Valley power plant (see Fig. 1) would have the third highest true-arch dam in the world, 534 feet, and would have generator units with a capability of 170,000 kilovolts each, larger than any present hydroelectric units. Application to build the two power plants was filed with the Federal Power Commission on September 7, 1955, by the Pacific Northwest Power Company."
"THE EDISON MEDAL presented today is the 46th in the series. The Medal is awarded annually “… for meritorious achievement in electrical science or electrical engineering or the electrical arts.” The award traditionally has consisted of three articles. The first item is a gold medal which is valuable enough, and we hope cherished enough, so that it is kept in a bank vault, seldom seen by the owner and never seen by others. The second one is a full-size bronze replica of the Medal which is useful as a paperweight. It is therefore likely to be found on the Medalist's desk in company with assorted bits of glass and various advertising gimmicks used for the same purpose, so that it is seldom noticed by anyone. Of course, if the Medalist is a perfect executive, nothing ever appears on his desk except a set of 12 push buttons, so that the bronze medal replica is never seen. The third article traditionally awarded is a certificate. This is sometimes filed away with the Medalist's other papers and forever lost to view. In other cases it is framed and hung on the owner's office wall but, if so, it is hung behind him so that it is visible to visitors but rarely to himself."
"THE CITATION for the award of the Edison Medal to Comfort Avery Adams reads: “… for pioneering achievements in the development of a-c electric machinery and in electric welding; for vision and initiative in the formation of an engineering standards organization; and for eminence as an educator and consulting engineer.”"
"FIRST, I wish to express my deep appreciation for the high honor bestowed upon me by the Institute and its Edison Medal Committee."
"MODERN BUSINESS OPERATIONS have developed a requirement for rapid and accurate communications, involving the exchange of engineering, scientific, statistical, and accounting data. The points between which communication is required may be within the same building or they may be separated by hundreds of miles."
"Some of us joined the AIEE a long time ago. Life was simpler in those days. There were not so many organizations to join. We were quite sure that we could use all of the help that any organization could give us in finding a job, in keeping it, and in making professional progress. As the years pass, our judgment is confirmed and our attachment to the organization becomes greater, especially as we contribute more of our time and effort to it. But in this complex world of today, it is apparent that what seems obvious to us is not so obvious to everyone."
"THE AIEE Southern District Meeting will be held in Jackson, Miss., April 3–5, 1957. The Heidelberg Hotel will serve as headquarters for the meeting and all technical sessions will be held there."
"THE 1957 NUCLEAR CONGRESS, to be held at the Philadelphia, Pa., Convention Hall, March 11–15, under the co-ordination oi Engineers Joint Council (EJC), has been described as “possibly the most significant event of its kind ever held in this country.”"
"Conference papers listed below have been accepted for AIEE Transactions and are now open for written discussion until April 1. Duplicate double-spaced typewritten copies of each discussion should be sent to E. C. Day, Assistant Secretary for Technical Papers, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, 33 West 39th St., New York 18, N. Y., on or before April 1."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE AMERICAN POWER CONFERENCE, sponsored by The Illinois Institute of Technology in co-operation with 13 universities and 10 local and national engineering societies, including the AIEE, will be held March 27–29, 1957, at the Sherman Hotel in Chicago, Ill."
"ENGINEERS JOINT COUNCIL (EJC), a federation of professional engineering societies, held its third annual General Assembly on January 17–18, 1957 at the Statler Hotel, New York, N. Y. Paramount topics discussed were the vital place and influence of the engineer, nationally in defense and internationally on the technological “cold front” and trends in professional compensation."
"EDITOR'S NOTE: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y."
"T. C. Fry (F '50), retired, has been appointed senior consultant for Remington Rand Univac. In his new position, he will serve in a consulting capacity to all organizations of the Univac Division. Dr. Fry graduated from Findlay College in 1912 and later studied and taught at the University of Wisconsin where he received a Ph.D. degree in mathematics in 1920. He also has lectured at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Princeton University. Prior to joining Remington Rand Univac, he had been associated with the Bell Telephone system for more than 40 years. At the time of his recent retirement, he was assistant to the president of the Bell Laboratories. In scientific circles, Dr. Fry is best known as an expert on the mathematical theory of probability and especially its application to various communication problems. He is the author of a book on this subject, “Probability and Its Engineering Uses.” He has been awarded the Presidential Certificate of Merit for his work during World War II as a member of the Fire Control Division of; the National Defense Research Committee and deputy chief of its applied mathematical panel. Dr. Fry is a fellow of the American Physical Society and the Institute of Mathematical Statistics. He had been a vice-president of the American Mathematical Society and the Mathematical Association of America."
"Edmund P. Coles (AM 95, M '30. F '35), retired, died recently in Charlotte, N. C. Mr. Coles was born in Buckingham County, Va., April 1. 1873. He was a graduate of Washington and Lee University. Mr. Coles was associated with the General Electric Company for 47 years. At the time of his retirement in April 1943, he was manager, Charlotte. N. C, Office, Apparatus Sales Division, General Electric Company. During his tong residence in Charlotte, he was a member of the Mercy Hospital Board. Charlotte Rotary Club, North Carolina Society of Engineers, and Charlotte Engineers Club, of which he was president in 1928. Mr. Coles served on the AIEE Membership Committee (1930-35)."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of January 17, 1957, recommended the following applications for transfer. Any objections to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"STUDENTS at the University of Idaho became members of the Electrical Association, forerunner of the AIEE, in 1906, under the leadership of Professor Sydney Sheldon. At the time, Professor Sheldon was assisted by instructor S. E. Hutton in teaching the 28 students majoring in electrical engineering. Today, the department numbers 240 students, and the College of Engineering has a teaching staff of 31."
"ENGINEERS AND SCIENTISTS have wanted to use higher frequency signals for a number of reasons. Since the ordinary vacuum tiiode could not fulfill their needs without introducing unconquerable problems, these men sought other means of amplifying, oscillating, and multiplying their high frequency signals. Out of this search came the idea of velocity-modulated tubes, of which the klystron is an important type."
"The joint AIEE-Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE) Student Branch at the University of Alabama holds a minimum of 12 meetings during the school year. The meetings are presided over by J. D. DeLorenzo, chairman, a senior electrical engineering student. Other officers for the branch are, Carl Armstrong, vice-chairman; Al Wyatt, secretary; and Ray ford Davis, treasurer. The faculty advisors for the branch are, Professors of electrical engineering, W. F. Gray and P. H. Nelson, representing the national organizations of AIEE and IRE respectively."
"“Energy available in a useful and readily controllable form is the essential ingredient in man's progress. By using other forms of energy than his own physical resources, man amplifies his efforts, so that he can rise above a bare physical existence, and enjoy the fruits of his labors. Electric energy provides that need in the most versatile and easily controlled form, and the present living standards would be impossible without it. The AIEE, as the foremost organization for the dissemination of technical information in this held, provides the medium for continued and expanding progress. Every electrical engineer who hopes to make a contribution to the world in which he lives needs the help proof the AIEE and it, in turn, needs the support of every progressively minded electrical engineer.”"
"Plans to endow an Enrico Fermi Distinguished Service Professorship at The University of Chicago in memory of the world renowned nuclear physicist have been announced by Dr. M. J. Kelly, president of Bell Telephone Laboratories."
"SIX INSTRUMENTS that can “see” light intensity not visible to the human eye are being snipped to science laboratories near and far by the Boulder Laboratories of the National Bureau of Standards (NBS)."
"A TOTALLY NEW analog computer series, combining a digital output-input translater system (DO/IT) with many other features designed for automatic operation and high accuracy, has been produced by Berkeley Division, Beckman Instruments, Inc."
"The last of six single-phase autotransformers, largest ever built, was shipped recently from the power transformer department of the General Electric Company (GE) at Pittsfield, Mass."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE U. S. NAVY's experimental ship, USS Compass Island, forerunner of a fleet of nuclear-powered, ballistic missile-launching vessels, both surface and submarine, was commissioned recently at the New York Naval Shipyard."
"THERE ARE commandments by which men live that say “Thou shalt not steal,” and “Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife, nor his man-servant, nor his maid-servant, nor his ass, nor anything that is his.” Should this latter commandment perhaps include “nor his draftsman?”"
"Forecasts of an impending revolution in the mechanical world were strongly impressed on visitors at the 22nd National Exposition of Power and Mechanical Engineering in the New York Coliseum, New York. N. Y., November 26–30, held under the auspices of The American Society of Mechanical Engineers, concurrent with the organization's annual meeting. Widespread interest in the exhibits attracted a large attendance estimated at 30,000 visitors for the week, from all walks of industry and commerce."
"After the equivalent of 5,787 years, a much-abused motor finally broke down a few weeks ago—and one of the longest and most fundamental motor testing programs in industry was almost over. Almost, because one last motor is still running and, in theory at least, it may go on forever."
"An ultrahigh-speed printer-plotter device that can translate the lightning fast language of an electronic computer into easily read printed records as fast as the “brain” can calculate is being successfully used here to process ballistic missile test data."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Rapid changes in the field of electrical engineering have set a pace of progress that calls for competent engineers that can grow and change with the times. Industry has the responsibility not only to provide training, but also to make sure that the able engineer never gets locked in a technical closet."
"THE PROBLEM of evaluating power loss is an ever-present one in any field of electrical engineering. In many instances, the current distribution in conducting materials can be evaluated and the corresponding loss determined. In those remaining instances, the physical geometry and field configurations are such that exact analysis is not possible. Loss evaluations for those cases must be based on experience expressed empirically or analytical work modified to agree with experimental data."
"The results of an extensive questionnaire answered by 3,433 seniors and graduate students in electrical engineering of 129 colleges in March 1956 are analyzed. A whole series of challenges are posed for the engineering profession. Failure to act now can have major effects on the profession of electrical engineering in the next 10 to 20 years."
"IN AERONAUTICAL CONTROL, where extensive application may be made of phase discriminators with d-c output, use of the transistor in discriminator circuits has definite advantages. The transistorized discriminator can meet minimum size and power requirements, provide amplification with excellent reliability, and perform well over a wide temperature range."
"DURING RECENT YEARS, the reduction of noise in motor-driven home appliances has become a major design consideration."
"In this two-part article the properties of semiconductors are discussed, as well as the relations of these properties to formal solid-state and conduction theory and applications to such devices as transistors, rectifiers, and photocells. Some recent findings on the properties of silicon and germanium, and a discussion of some of the more modern techniques for making semiconductor devices are included."
"Growth and proposed developments in the Colorado Rocky Mountain area will overload the present system in the near future, necessitating expansion of present facilities and use of higher transmission voltages. An extensive program for the evaluation of corona, radio influence, and mechanical design under high-voltage and high-altitude conditions is described."
"In push-pull TYPE magnetic amplifiers with two single-ended external-feedback or self-saturating circuits in back-to-back connection, each of these circuits has its own positive-feedback component which reduces or nearly nullifies the intrinsic negative feedback of the ordinary saturable reactor (transductor). As a result of this fact, the individual quiescent currents of these circuits vary considerably with large changes in supply voltage, frequency, and ambient temperature. Therefore, the characteristics of the magnetic-core and rectifier elements have to be carefully matched over a large part of the working range to avoid excessive asymmetry zero-drift errors. This necessity becomes particularly important in low-level d-c signal applications in the realm of instrumentation, control engineering, and analog computer technique."
"ALTHOUGH recent improvements in design, construction, installation, and maintenance of power transformers have made them notably trouble-free, faults do occur, and the possible consequential damage of a failure is sufficiently severe to justify very careful consideration to the detection of faults."
"The recommended use of the Giorgi system of units with the rationalized form of the equations of electromagnetism has led to controversy between the “classic” and “modern” schools over whether total rationalization should be interpreted as a change of the units or as a change of the quantities. An attempt is made to unveil some of the hidden complications and to show how the difficulties can be avoided by proper attention to the semantics involved."
"Using inductronic d-c amplifiers, a method has been developed for measuring low resistance values with a minimum of manipulation. Advantages include high accuracy, speed, and simplicity of operation."
"THE RELATIVE LOCATION in a circuit of a wattmeter, voltmeter, and ammeter generally requires careful consideration. The wattmeter reading will be greater than the load power by the power loss in the potential circuits or the current circuit, depending on the connection used. Ammeter or voltmeter readings will also differ for the same reason from the load value they should represent."
"Consideration of predicted load growths indicates that a general increase in transmission voltage will be required in the near future. In order to assure optimum development of extra-high-voltage transmission, additional criteria and design data are needed. A co-ordinated research program is proposed."
"DURING the past 16 years, the Virginia Electric and Power Company has had in service over 600 circuit miles of 115- and 138-kv wood pole H-frame transmission lines with spar-arm construction. Experience with this construction has been so satisfactory that the new 96-mile 230-kv transmission line between the company's Chesterfield and Possum Point power stations is being built with spar construction for both crossarms and braces. Each end of the line will be tied into the existing 115-kv system through 230/115-kv autotrans-formers and a tap connection will be made at the Lakeside substation north of Richmond."
"The use of an ignitron contactor panel for direct press drives for large draw presses reduces the impact of shock loading to the motor, gears, keyways, and other mechanical parts of the drive. Maintenance requirements are thereby reduced. These improvements are obtained at a relatively minor additional cost of the initial installation."
"THE POWER SYSTEM planning engineer bases major decisions concerning service continuity on expected system performance during faults and other abnormal conditions. Frequently the protective relay system places additional limitations on system performance. (An illustration of this is a system which is unstable with 30-cycle relaying, but may be stable with 1-cycle relaying.) One of the continuing objectives of the relay engineer is to minimize or completely remove these relaying limitations to system performance."
"CANNED MOTORS are those which are distinguished by having a thin cylindrical metal diaphragm or “can” in the inner bore of the stator, thus serving to isolate the stator windings from the fluid which completely fills the rotor cavity. These motors are generally of the squirrel-cage induction type and their rotors are also normally canned in order to prevent corrosion of the bars, end rings, and punchings from the fluid in the air gap."
"As the demand for toll telephone service increases, it becomes necessary to integrate additional facilities into existing networks. It is shown how microwave radio equipment can be analyzed to determine whether, when added to a system, it will meet the over-all noise requirements of the network."
"THE AIEE Great Lakes District Meeting for 1957 will be held April 15–17 at the Hotel Fort Des Moines in Des Moines, Iowa. The meeting will embrace a full program consisting of technical sessions, student sessions, inspection trips, social functions, and special activities for the ladies."
"THE THEME “Engineering Equals Industrial Revolution” (E=IR), will be carried out by the North Eastern District Meeting to be held May 1–3, 1957, in Pittsfield, Mass."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE AIEE Winter General Meeting was held in New York, N.Y., January 21–25, 1957, at the Statler and Sheraton-McAlpin Hotels, the former being the headquarters as usual. Although the total attendance of 4,971 did not equal that of 1956, the number of members and guests exceeded the attendance of the year before, the difference being caused by a drop in student registration due to midyear examinations."
"THE REGULAR Winter Meeting of the Board of Directors was held in connection with the 1957 Winter General Meeting in the Hotel Statler, New York, N.Y., on Friday, January 25, 1957. All members of the Board of Directors, except one, and all of the five Department Chairmen were present. This meeting convened at 9:00 a.m. and adjourned at 5:06 p.m."
"AN AIEE DISTRICT MEETING will be held on May 7–9, 1957, at the Dayton-Biltmore Hotel, Dayton, Ohio. The East Central District No. 11, Middle Eastern District No. 2, and the Institute Air Transportation Committee have combined to present an unusually full program on Rotating Electrical Machinery, Air Transportation, and Engineering Management."
"AS YOU PROBABLY KNOW, the AIEE Public Relation (PR) Committee prepares and disseminates information concerning the Institute and its activities intended for distribution outside the Institute's own publications. It also advises and assists local Section PR committees in handling public relations at the local level."
"The Lamme Medal for 1956 has been awarded to Dr. H. H. Beverage (AM '23, F '48), director of Radio Research Laboratory, Radio Corporation of America (RCA), “… for his pioneering and outstanding engineering achievements in the conception and application of principles basic to progress in national and worldwide radio communication.”"
"EDITOR'S NOTE: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y."
"W. J. Barrett (M '36, F '50), transmission maintenance engineer, New Jersey Bell Telephone Company, has been nominated for the office of 1957–58 President of the AIEE. Mr. Barrett was born in Brooklyn, N. Y., January 10, 1899. He received the E.E. degree cum laude from The Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn in 1920. Since graduation, he has been employed continuously in engineering work in the Bell System. At first, he was in the operation and engineering department of the American Telephone & Telegraph Company; later, with the Ohio Bell Telephone Company; and, since 1930, with the New Jersey Bell Telephone Company. The greater part of his work has been in the field of co-ordination of power and communication system."
"Harry Stephen Bueche (AM '33, M '47), associate professor of electrical engineering, University of Delaware, died recently at the age of 59. Born in Steubenville, Ohio, Mr. Bueche received a B.S. degree from the U. S. Naval Academy in 1920, a bachelor's degree in E.E. from Villanova College in 1922, and an E.E. degree from Villanova in 1925, and an M.S. degree in E.E. from Iowa State College in 1930. He was employed by Consolidated Edison Corporation of New York and Follansbee Brothers Steel Company before he entered the field of teaching. He joined the faculty of Kansas State College in 1925 as an instructor, later becoming assistant professor. From 1933 to 1947, he was professor and head of the electrical engineering department at Villanova College. He taught at Drexel Institute of Technology and Temple University during the summers of the years 1941 through 1948. He joined the faculty of the University of Delaware in 1947. Mr. Bueche also was consultant to several engineering firms in the Newark, Del., area. He was a member of Sigma Tau, Tau Beta Pi, the American Society for Engineering Education, the Naval Academy Alumni Association, the American Association of University Professors, and the Institute of Radio Engineers. Mr. Bueche was a trustee of the Delaware Bay Section of the AIEE, and had served as counselor of several AIEE Student Branches."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of February 21, 1957, recommended the following applications for transfer. Any objections to these transfer should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"SO THEY HAVE ASKED YOU to be the AIEE Student Branch Counselor at your school? I wonder why they picked you. I hope you don't think it was because nobody else would take the job. No, the boys chose you because they like you and because they think that you are a capable person. Or perhaps you are being directly appointed rather than selected by the students. In either case, what are you in for? Is this going to mean the assumption of considerable responsibility, quite a bit of work, signing membership applications and seeing that they are forwarded to headquarters; telephoning prospective speakers who will come to address your branch; seeing to it that your branch will be effectively represented at prize paper competitions and at other District meetings, that your student officers are on the job, helping and advising them when they need you; checking to see that your chairman and vice-chairman are really learning how to manage the branch efficiently, that your secretary is keeping accurate records of meetings and sending in his reports to headquarters promptly, that your treasurer is keeping his accounts in such good order that the financial status (if any) of the branch is available at a moment's notice? Yes, it is probably going to mean all this and more."
"“The AIEE has offered me a wonderful opportunity to associate with outstanding engineers in the electrical engineering profession. By attending Section and technical discussion group meetings, I have the advantage of listening to key men in industry present problems confronting electrical engineers in every field and discussing new developments with fellow engineers, all of which leads to a well-rounded education. As a Student Member and now as an Associate Member, I feel I have benefited from the information and fellowship available, as can any young electrical engineer who participates in the activities of the AIEE.”"
"Theta Tau, national engineering fraternity, held its 21st Bienniel Convention at Columbus, Ohio, December 28–30, 1956. Representing 24 chapters at engineering colleges throughout the country, almost 100 delegates, national officers, alumni, and active members assembled for three days of sessions at the Fort Hayes Hotel."
"WHEN FUTURE HISTORIANS analyze the atomic age, it is safe to predict they will credit its rapid maturity to the ingenuity of the so-called “safety engineers” as well as to the discoveries of the physicists. For without the imagination and skill of those concentrating on precautionary measures, the scientist would have little opportunity to work in radioactive areas."
"AN APPLICATION of closed-circuit television that provides immediate comparative data of chemical activity within live normal and cancer cells was reported recently by A. L. Malcarney, vice-president and general manager, Radio Corporation of America (RCA) Commercial Electronic Products."
"THE FIRST SUCCESSFUL operation of a completely new solid-state device which will oscillate at microwave frequencies has been achieved by Dr. Derrick Scovil, Dr. George Feher, and Dr. Harold Seidel at Bell Telephone Laboratories."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Time-honored belief that “only diamond scratches diamond” became obsolete when the General Electric (GE) Research Laboratory announced the discovery of an entirely new material never found in nature."
"Two historical roadside markers were installed in December 1956 near Anderson, S.C., calling attention to the vicinity as being the place where the first successful longdistance transmission of electricity for commercial purposes occurred in the United States."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of ∗∗∗opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"This is the first in a series of articles on pioneering investigations in electrical science made by men who possessed an absorbing scientific curiosity, trusting no authority no matter how renowned, subjecting everything to the supreme test of all knowledge: experimental verification. This tradition should be disseminated throughout the engineering profession so that tomorrow's engineer can meet the demands of a society that will require more than technical ability. Such eager curiosity fosters the ability to make new associations between facts already known or learned and, thus, lays the basis for the creative application of engineering knowledge and the development of tomorrow's “three dimensional engineer.”"
"The electrical highlights of the International Geophysical Year to begin on July 1, 1957, are reviewed. Included under this topic are electrical studies of the ionosphere, current rings far beyond the atmosphere, cosmic rays, the aurora, whistlers, sunspots, and electromagnetic phenomena. Information to be gathered will be so massive that a generation or more will be necessary to reduce and interpret it all."
"Basic philosophy and principles underlying the rationalization of system insulation strength are presented. The development of a program of insulation co-ordination, its application and operating experience, with the American Gas & Electric Company system is described."
"MICROWAVE has often been considered as a possible solution to the communication problems associated with transfer-trip and similar type relaying; however, it has been felt by many engineers that the reliability of such a system in its present state of development is not adequate. Reports of sustained outages because of propagation fading, false operations resulting from noise, and lack of a reliable primary power source have served to discourage prospective users. It is now apparent from field tests and actual operating experiences that all of these limitations can be avoided by proper selection of the microwave frequency band and equipment."
"A brief review is presented of the various sources of energy and their relative importance and growth during the past 100 years. On the basis of past trends, it appears that future energy utilization will depend more upon scientific and technological achievements than upon actual raw material reserves."
"MAGNETIC AMPLIFIERS constitute rugged and maintenance-free elements for the conversion of a constant a-c voltage into an adjustable d-c voltage. They can be used for adjustable voltage drives of d-c shunt motors when no reversibility and no regeneration is required. The operation of a self-saturating magnetic amplifier with d-c output connected to the armature of a d-c motor is in many respects similar to that of controlled thyratron rectifiers. In both cases, the speed-torque characteristic at a fixed firing angle is not flat as with a smooth armature supply voltage, but curved at low load like that of a series motor. This is caused by the a-c content in the armature voltage and the rectifying property of the supply. In the lower power range, single-phase magnetic amplifiers offer economical advantages over polyphase amplifiers. Since for single-phase supply the distortion of the motor characteristics is most severe, economical means are required which restore the original shunt-motor characteristics."
"It is becoming increasingly clear and certain that the job known as managing is a separate and distinct type of work which is worthy both of study and practice as a definite career and profession."
"THE SYNTHESIS of multipole control systems, i.e., control systems having a multiplicity of independent inputs and dependent outputs, is one area of control engineering which, to date, has received surprisingly little attention. Such systems occur quite frequently in practice, and until recently their syntheses was feasible only through laborious trial-and-error studies with analog computers."
"IN MOST POWER SYSTEM transient stability studies, the system loads are represented by shunt impedances. Commonly, the shunt impedances are treated as static impedances. This method is especially well adapted for hand calculation and for a-c network analyzer studies. It is, of course, appreciated that all loads do not behave as static impedances and methods have been developed for taking into account, more correctly, the proper variation of real and reactive power with system voltage and frequency changes. These methods have been used, where justified, in some a-c network analyzer transient stability studies."
"The demand for higher breaker voltages and interrupting ratings created by today's expanding energy requirements presents numerous design and test problems. A new line of high-power tubular multibreak-type interrupters has been developed, features of which include accessibility, simplicity of replacement, and a design that can be verified by part-testing or indirect testing. Design features and typical test data are given."
"In this second section of a two-part article, the properties of compound semiconductors and the structure and preparation of p-n junctions are described. The fields of application of semiconductors are summarized, with indications given of the probable direction of future developments in each of these fields."
"The problem of locating sustained faults on transmission lines depends on a number of factors such as speed, accuracy, cost, and the final results. A pulse-type, electronic fault analyzer is used in the Appalachian system because of the mountainous topography. Method of use and results of tests and experiences are detailed."
"Increasing communication demands by Government, business, and industry emphasize the need for an advanced conception in communications. Since radio and carrier spectra are limited, Collins Radio has concentrated on improving system performance. The technique of predicted wave signaling using kinematic filtering is discussed in connection with multiplex systems."
"FM and television broadcast receivers generate significant amounts of r-f energy during normal operation. When these internal signals are radiated outside the receiver, interference often results. Some measurement and control history of such spurious radiation is described."
"THERE ARE a number of power system problems in which the driving point and transfer impedances of the network are required. In the past, the network analyzer has been widely used to determine these impedances by measurement; however, there is a serious question as to whether the accuracy obtainable with analyzer measurements is sufficient for all purposes. An example where analyzer accuracy is questionable is in the determination of open-circuit impedances, sometimes referred to as self and mutual impedances, for use in loss equations. Several methods of computing such impedances digitally have been described.1"
"A new type of wind-operated power supply having only one moving part is described. Tests of more than three years' duration show that it may be operated without servicing under a wide range of weather conditions."
"SUPPOSE THAT AN ISSUE of one of the Jackson daily newspapers carried the following news item: The American Blank Company is one of the fastest growing industries in the Jackson, Mississippi, area. It is now the world's largest firm devoted exclusively to design and production of precision items and accessories for specific purposes. Mr. X, vice-president and general manager, attributes the impressive growth of his company to research, advanced design, precision manufacturing, and customer satisfaction."
"MONTREAL, the Metropolis of Canada, will be the scene of this year's AIEE Summer General Meeting, June 24–28, 1957. Meetings will be held in the Sheraton-Mount Royal Hotel."
"THE ROLE of the United States in bringing nuclear energy to power-starved nations of the world was outlined to thousands of engineers, scientists, and business executives in Philadelphia, Pa., as part of the largest meeting on atomic energy ever held in this country. The 1957 Nuclear Congress, held March 11–15, at Philadelphia's Convention Hall, was an assembly of three important conferences—the 2nd Nuclear Engineering and Science Conference, the 5th Atomic Energy in Industry Conference, the 5th Hot Laboratories and Equipment Conference — And the 3rd International Atomic Exposition. The Congress was sponsored and conducted by 24 leading engineering and scientific societies and co-ordinated by the Engineers Joint Council (EJC)."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"In co-operation with the Nuclear Engineering Congress held in Philadelphia, Pa., March 11–15, S. C. Townsend, manager, atomic power department, Pennsylvania Power & Light Company, addressed the Philadelphia Section of the AIEE at its March 11 meeting. Included among the 450 people in attendance from 23 states and 7 foreign countries were several AIEE personalities: C. T. Pearce, Westinghouse Electric Corporation, vice-president of District No. 2; N. S. Hibshman, national secretary; R. S. Gardner, assistant secretary; and W. B. Morton, Pennsylvania Power & Light Company, past vice-president of District No. 2."
"The Richland Section of the AlEE will be host this year to the 1957 Pacific General Meeting which will be held in the city of Pasco, Wash., August 28–30. Pasco is located in south central Washington in an area of active hydroelectric development on the Columbia and the Snake Rivers."
"A report entitled “Professional Income of engineers—1956” was issued recently by Engineers Joint Council (EJC)."
"Conference papers listed below have been accepted for AIEE Transactions and are now open for written discussion until May 27. Duplicate double-spaced typewritten copies of each discussion should be sent to E. C. Day, Assistant Secretary for Technical Papers, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, 33 West 39th St., New York 18, N. Y., on or before May 27."
"EDITOR'S NOTE: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees and will include brief news reports of committee activities. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, New York 18, N. Y."
"Victor Henry Braunig (AM '30, M '42), general manager, City Public Service Board, San Antonio, Tex., has been transferred to the grade of Fellow in the AIEE “… for his leadership in design and operation of thermoelectric generating stations and in the management of a large electric utility.” Mr. Braunig was born in Hallettsville, Tex., May 22, 1890, and received his B.S. degree in E.E. from Texas A&M College in 1910. After graduation, he joined the San Antonio Public Service Company as a cadet engineer. He has been with that utility and its successor, the City Public Service Board, continuously except for two years service during World War I in the U.S. Army. After the war, he returned to the San Antonio Public Service Company where he has served as superintendent of production, general superintendent, assistant general manager, and general manager. He has held his present position as general manager since 1949. In his capacity as superintendent of production, Mr. Braunig pioneered, in Texas, the use of high pressure and high temperature topping turbines to raise the efficiency of old low pressure generating units. His outstanding accomplishment is the completely centrally operated supervisory control of the San Antonio Electric System utilizing carrier current and microwave channels. Mr. Braunig also handled the first 138-kv oil pipe cable installation in the Southwest. In addition to his accomplishments in engineering and operation, he has done an outstanding job of management and financing in the development of the San Antonio Electric and Gas Systems. During his administration, the load has more than tripled, and is now growing at a rate requiring a greatly accelerated construction schedule. Mr. Braunig is a registered professional engineer in the State oi Texas."
"D. A. Quarles (AM '23, F '41), Secretary of the Air Force, Washington, D. C, has been nominated as Deputy Secretary of Defense. Mr. Quarles, a past president of the AIEE, was born in Van Buren, Ark., July 30, 1894. He was graduated from Yale University in 1916 with a B.A. degree. During World War I, he served for two years in the U. S. Army, being discharged with the rank of captain. In 1919, he joined the Western Electric Company engineering department which, in 1925, became the Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc. Mr. Quarles became a vice-president of the Laboratories in 1947. He also has served as president of San dia Corporation and vice-president of Western Electric Company, Inc. He was appointed Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and Development in September 1953 and assumed the position of Air Force Secretary in August 1955. Mr. Quarles is a member of the American Physical Society, the Institute of Radio Engineers, the Yale Engineering Association, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, and the Telephone Pioneers of America. He has served as a director of the Institute and as a member or chairman of many AIEE Committees."
"Andrew Warren Anderson, Jr. (AM '53), partner in the firm of Anderson & Levy, Philadelphia, Pa., manufacturers representatives for electric power equipment, died recently at the age of 34. Born in Philadelphia, Mr. Anderson was a graduate of the Drexel Institute of Technology where he also served as an instructor in the evening engineering school. He had served as district sales engineer for the Clark Controller Company and the General Electric Company. Mr. Anderson was active in the Philadelphia Section of the AIEE and the Pennsylvania Society of Professional Engineers, serving on committees of both organizations."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of March 21, 1957, recommended the following applications for transfer. Any objections to these transfers should be filed at once with the secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"THE AIEE STUDENT BRANCH was established at the University of Wyoming on October 14, 1925, with Prof. G. H. Sechrist as counselor. The Joint Student Branch of AIEE-Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE) was established on June 2, 1948. When the Branch was established, there were approximately 30 students in electrical engineering. Prof. Sechrist was the entire staff. At present, there are over 200 students and the staff numbers five. Over the past three years, enrollment has been increasing at the rate of about 30% per year."
"WHAT is an electrical engineer? What type of work does he do? What makes him decide to enter the field? These and other questions will be answered for an important segment of the profession in the United States when the alumni of Massachusetts Institute of Technology's (MIT) famed Electrical Engineering Course VI-A publish their collective “co-operative” biography now in preparation."
"Start of a work—study program for engineering undergraduates, with full payment of college tuition and related expenses for students while they work part time in their chosen fields, has been initiated by Hughes Aircraft Company, Culver City, Calif."
"My 36 years of membership in the AIEE has given me the definite feeling of belonging to a profession. Association with those of my contemporaries who were doing the pioneering in electrical engineering was a privilege. Hearing and talking to such giants as Steinmetz, Lamme, Zworykin, Armstrong, Scott, Sporn, and others gave me many thrills. Furthermore, the opportunity provided to submit and present papers giving the results of my own researches from time to time made me feel that I too belonged to that profession. Instead of feeling that as a teacher I was an outsider, I was convinced that I too belonged. This feeling has been quite similar to that of being a member of a family."
"At each Triennial Reunion, the Engineering Alumni Association of the University of Toronto presents two medals to two outstanding graduates in engineering. Twelve medals have been given since 1939. To be the recipient of such a medal is an honor which is highly prized and is one of the most coveted awards a graduate can receive."
"In the Newsletter issued jointly by the Engineering Manpower Commission (EMC) of Engineers Joint Council and the Scientific Manpower Commission (SMC), Washington, D. C, a report was given on earned degrees in engineering. The actual count is over 10% short of the predicted figure. Comparative figures for 1955–56 and 1954–55 follow."
"THE U. S. AIR FORCE recently commissioned a revolutionary approach-lighting svstem with lightning-like flashes which aid all-weather operation of huge jet bombers at March Air Force Base, of the Strategic Air Command (SAC)."
"GREATER SAFETY through more efficient air traffic control is now possible through the development of a TACAN (tactical air navigation) Automatic Reporting and Data Link System by Federal Telecommunication Laboratories (FTL), a division of International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation (IT&T). The result of six years of research, this newly declassified electronic system represents a major step in bringing air traffic control to a point where it can adequately handle not only the high-speed aircraft now in operation, but also those predicted for the future."
"THE TURBULENT Paucartambo River, which has its source among snow-capped peaks high in the Peruvian Andes, was formally harnessed to the service of Peru's largest nonferrous mining enterprise recently. Representatives of the United States owned Cerro de Pasco Corporation and the Peruvian Government, who were gathered in the eastern Andean, foothills, simultaneously threw switches setting in operation Cerro de Pasco's new $25 million Paucartambo 72,000-kva hydroelectric power production and transmission facilities."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The observation of a new kind of nuclear reaction that yields energy and is akin to thermonuclear reactions was reported to the American Physical Society (APS) by scientists in the University of California (U of C) Radiation Laboratory."
"To provide positions meeting the exact requirements of engineers, a new plan has been developed by Mechaneers Incorporated, Westport, Conn., called “Trialhire.”"
"Solar energy, focused to an intense heat in a man-made solar furnace, has become an important research tool in such fast moving fields as guided missile development and atomic energy."
"Ideas of free lance inventors are needed right away to help solve nine “blue sky” problems which baffle the armed services, according to the National Inventors Council, U. S. Department of Commerce."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recentiy issued pamphlets may be of interest to readers of “Electrical Engineering.” All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The recent success of the scientists of the world serves to indicate the vast nature of the scientific knowledge which lies ahead of us. Major scientific advancements are no longer achieved by small numbers of scientists working alone. Sharing scientific knowledge has become a very important part of our scientific progress. The Professional Group is a means for sharing the specialized knowledge."
"The effects of the variation of the index of refraction of the earth's atmosphere on the angular information yielded by radio interferometers for terrestrial and near-terrestrial sources are investigated, and a second-order correction is derived. Numerical values are not given since, in general, they require the use of high-speed computers to integrate the error term over the index of refraction profile; however, for various special “models,” this need can be circumvented. One such case, the “flat-earth free-space” model is treated, both to serve as a check on the mathematical derivations, since it can be solved directly, and to give some idea of the size of the expected error."
"Kenneth M. Uglow, author of “Noise and Bandwidth in PDM/FM Radio Telemetering” which appeared as paper 7.5 in the April, 1957, issue of these TRANSACTIONS, has brought the following corrections to the attention of the editor."
"The receiving system used at the Missile Test Range in Florida and the West Indies is described. An over-all picture of the radio-telemetering ground receiving equipment is offered including the antennas, rf distribution facilities, and demodulation equipment. Several units of this system have been developed expressly for use at the Air Force Missile Test Center (AFMTC). The requirements leading to the design, along with the performance capabilities and operational utilization of the equipment are discussed. Some significant test results are outlined, and the current methods of testing the receiving system is presented."
"Lawrence L. Rauch, author of “Ballistic Missile Telemetry,” which appeared on pages 2–5 of the May, 1957, issue of these TRANSACTIONS, has requested the editor to clarify the fact that his paper was an invited luncheon address presented at the National Telemetering Conference, August 21, 1956, and not a contributed paper at one of the technical sessions of the conference."
"The development of aircraft telemetering at the Martin Company, Baltimore, Md. is described and the basic differences between aircraft telemetering as opposed to missile telemetering are discussed. Some outstanding problems, findings, and solutions are indicated."
"A standard in the field of telemetry for guided missiles was established in 1948, by the Committee on Guided Missiles of the Research and Development Board (RDB), Department of Defense, and thereafter was revised and extended as necessary as a result of periodic reviews of the Standard by the Committee's Working Group on Telemetering, Panel on Test Range Instrumentation. The last official RDB revision of the Standards was published as RDB report MTRI 204/6 dated November 8, 1951. Since the termination of the Research and Development Board organization, the Inter-Range Instrumentation Group Steering Committee, representing the major Department of Defense missile test ranges, has assigned the task of promulgating new or revised telemetry standards to the Inter-Range Telemetry Working Group (IRTWG). This publication is intended to accomplish this purpose."
"These Standards have been devised to further the compatibility of telemetry data tape recorder/reproducer devices at Department of Defense missile test ranges. Compatibility of these devices is required primarily to provide tape recorded data in a standard form to permit interchange of data records between the various facilities. The interchange of data records is a requirement whenever tests are conducted at one facility and data is reduced at another."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The role of the Professional Group on Telemetry and Remote Control within the Institute of Radio Engineers is primarily that of disseminating technical information in the fields of interest and providing recognition to outstanding scientists and engineers engaged in the fields of telemetry and remote control. The PGTRC has been growing rapidly in the last few years; we now number our membership at approximately two thousand."
"The record-breaking attendance at this 1956 National Telemetering Conference is, I think, indicative of the rapidly increasing importance of the telemetering field. I suspect that the recent ballistic missile programs have been and will be in no small part responsible for a rapid acceleration in the telemetering field."
"The original concept of telemetry has become too limited to include all that now exists in the modern fields of telemetry and remote control. Modern progress has resulted in the need for new concepts to embrace two new branches of development. The first, Teletest, encompasses the new art of remote experimentation with its problems of multiple measurement and recording. The second, Telecontrol, refers to the science of control at a distance. The development of telemetry is reviewed and the distinguishing characteristics of the newer concepts are delineated. An interesting possible extension of Telecontrol to remote experimentation is pointed out. The recognition of the new concept of Telecontrol may stimulate progress in the field by unifying associated disciplines required to solve the newer problems."
"Progress in the fields of telemetry and remote control reported during 1955 is summarized under the headings: Data processing, data storage, digital transmission equipment, millivolt telemeter equipment, multiplexing methods and equipment, radio transmission, remote control, theory and analysis, transducers, and transistorized telemeter equipment. The small proportion of it dealing with remote control is a reflection of the content of those technical sessions which have been sponsored by the IRE Professional Group on Telemetry and Remote Control."
"An approximate expression is derived giving the amplitude and phase of the individual frequency components of an fm/fm signal when the input is a sinusoid. The approximation is subject to the restrictions that the subcarrier frequency be large in comparison to the highest modulation frequency, and that the ratio of subcarrier deviation to subcarrier frequency be much less than unity. Some qualitative properties of the frequency spectrum are pointed out and discussed, and illustrations of representative single sub-carrier-frequency distribution are presented. Although subject to the above restrictions, the results are shown to be applicable to present day fm/fm telemetry techniques."
"The effects of various simple coding methods on the stability of a remote control systems are discussed. It is shown that these methods create stability problems and require better observation. Command and observation channels requirements are compared and it is shown that a compensatory relationship between them exists."
"This paper discusses the derivation, limitations, and use of system equations relating input and output signal/noise ratios in fm detection with band-pass and with low-pass output filters and in fm/fm multiplex transmission. The fm/fm equation is: (S/N)D = (S/N)c (3/4)½ (fDC/fS) (fDS/FUD) where (S/N)D is the output (data voltage) rms signal/noise ratio, (S/N)C is the input (radio carrier channel) rms signal/noise ratio, BC is the input (radio carrier channel) bandwidth, FUD is the output (data voltage) low-pass filter bandwidth, fDC is the peak deviation of the carrier due to the subcarrier, fS is the center frequency of the frequency-modulated subcarrier, and fDS is the peak deviation of the subcarrier due to the data voltage (assumed a sine wave)."
"This paper describes automatic telemetric data reduction equipment being developed by the Instrumentation Division at the U. S. Naval Ordnance Laboratory, Corona, Calif., under joint sponsorship of the Navy Bureaus of Ordnance and Aeronautics. The design of some of the components has been completed and checked and will be described in detail in this report. The high-speed analog to digital converter is being procured from a commercial source. A high-capacity magnetic tape recorder is not currently available on the market for recording data at the maximum rate (30,000 samples per second) provided by other components of the system. It is expected that a suitable magnetic recorder will become available in the near future."
"A transistorized time multiplexer or commutator is described with applications to telemetry. The unit develops a commutated PAM signal corresponding to the IRIG standard for time multiplexing of an fm/fm signal. The channel input impedance is 500 k ohms and the channel response is accurate to ±0.5 per cent of modulation range. The present unit includes 15 channels sampled 10 times per second, but channel switching rates up to at least 15 kc are feasible. Channel selection is achieved by two multivibrator rings operating a matrix of diode switches. The commutator consumes 1 watt from a single 45 volt supply, the accuracy being virtually unaffected by ±20 per cent change in supply voltage. The unit will operate satisfactorily with channel accuracy maintained at ±0.5 per cent and the commutating frequency changing less than 1 per cent in the temperature range 25°C. to 70°C."
"Techniques of automation are applied to the problem of preflight check-out of airborne telemetry systems. The result is a test set that measures and analyzes key system parameters without operator participation. Operation of the subcarrier analyzer portion of the test set is described. Circuit details of pre-set binary counter chain, counter readout matrix, and GO/NO-GO voltmeter are given. An example of typical test set packaging is shown."
"Advertisements."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper describes the methods and techniques employed in real time display of telemeter data for missile control purposes. Emphasis is placed on the use of the electrical phase angle between two alternating voltages as the analogue of vehicle flight parameters such as Altitude, Airspeed, Heading, etc. Attention is given to the advantages and disadvantages of the various transmission methods and the factors governing the choice of analogue for a particular function."
"The microwave link to be described operates in the 4-KMC frequency region and can be set up for any desired bandwidth between 40 to 250 megacycles. In its present state, the telemetering system uses a pulsed-frequency modulated carrier obtained by use of either a klystron or a voltage-tuneable magnetron. The receiver directly amplifies the carrier to a level of +27 DBM where it is amplitude limited and discriminated. This system has been used in the field since January 1955 and has proved to be quite reliable. Its use to date has been limited to measuring time intervals of 200 microseconds or less, and to faithfully reproducing pulse shapes requiring up to 250-mc bandwidth. The various components utilized to accomplish the desired transmitting and receiving functions in this portion of the microwave band will be described."
"Currently available equipment for the high-speed sampling of large numbers of low-level transducers such as strain gages and thermocouples tends to have serious limitations on accuracy and life, or on reliability and economy. A design of equipment for this purpose which is not so seriously limited is described. It combines commercially available units with certain components which have required development. It consists of a low-level multiplexer, dc amplifiers, a second stage of multiplexing at high level, a voltage-to-digital converter, and a recording unit. The design of the multiplexers is described. The low-level multiplexer has accuracy and life exceeding that of conventional units, and avoids the necessity for an amplifier on each input channel. The high level multiplexer has comparable accuracy at electronic speeds. These units are used as building blocks to provide for large numbers of input channels with a high degree of flexibility. Typical system features are described."
"This paper describes a remote control system which provides continuously variable channels having an error of less than one percent of full scale as well as a number of “on-off” or binary channels. This system is a method for transmitting and receiving control signals for an airborne test vehicle."
"The techniques and systems described in this paper clearly establish the advantages of a well designed telemetering and remote control system for the proper and safe operation of any pipeline or petroleum processing plant to enable the dispatcher or plant operator at a central control office to be informed of the operating condition of the equipment at the various pump, process or compressor stations along the pipeline or at the plant. This concentration of information data, enables a check and record of delivery schedules, efficiency of station operation, product losses, fail-safe conditions, alarm conditions and other pertinent general data. Digital or tone type telemetering provide an efficient and economical media for such systems."
"This is an FM system designed specifically to record data aboard an aircraft under flight test and process the data to an acceptable and highly accurate form with reduction equipment located at a ground station. No telemetering link is required. Magnetic tape is the storage medium. The data outputs are time correlated. FM information is recorded on a 30 track, 3,000 ft. 1 1/2″ magnetic tape for a maximum of 40 minutes per reel. 25 tracks are used for data, which includes a voice channel. 4 tracks are used for reference signals for error correction, for timing and calibration markers, and for addressing the data on the tape with real time coding. 1 track is a spare. Commercially available FM modulators of the resistance bridge controlled, voltage controlled or inductance controlled variety may be used with carrier frequencies at the RDB channels 8 to 13. As many as 6 carriers may be multiplexed onto each tape track. Standard inputs are used to calibrate the airborne modulators. The ground reduction system uses the calibration information to automatically correct errors due to zero drift and sensitivity changes in system components. The ground system also corrects errors due to changes of tape velocity, commonly termed wow and flutter, by both mechanical and electronic devices. Function generators provide a means for correcting non-linear transducer curves to linear outputs. 24 demodulators and an audio channel will produce outputs for each playback pass of the tape. The demodulator outputs will drive oscillographs or strip chart recorders directly. At the same time, any one output may be fed to an analog to digital converter. The converter will digitize up to 1,000 samples per second and store the digitized information on an IBM 727 tape memory in a binary pattern suitable as a direct input to an IBM 704 computer. The data outputs from the demodulators are correlated in time to give a true indication of the time relationship of the signal inputs. Real time addresses are on the tape every 10 seconds and the playback of the tape readout can be programmed by using the addresses to start and stop the tape under search or read modes of operation. The tape readout may be started at any second interval. Readout over a particular section of tape may be repeated by selecting a REPEAT operating function."
"The apparent anomaly of transmitting FW signals, with pulse lengths as short as 90 microseconds, over restricted bandwidth systems with bandwidths in the order of 3 kc's, are discussed. It has been shown that in reality, data is transmitted not as pulses of absolute length, but of relative length. However, resolution errors introduced using the techniques described do result in some increase in jitter. No attempt has been made to compare operating thresholds or to make S/N comparisons as such figures as are now available would not be indicative of system performance when using optimized FM/FM discriminator output, low pass filters."
"An experimental investigation has been conducted by Sandia Corporation to determine the feasibility of using the higher frequency FM sub-carriers as carriers for a group of lower frequency FM subcarrier channels. The system tested was composed of eighteen channels being carried on three high-frequency subcarrier channels operated with a modulation index of one together with eight conventional FM/FM channels, or a total of twenty-six information channels per RF system. The maximum error due to nonlinearities in the transmission system was found to be ±1.5 per cent when a modulation index of two is used. The system tested employed only conventional FM/FM components. From this investigation it is indicated that at least forty information channels per RF system may be employed using standard RDB subcarrier frequencies and that the response of information channels may easily be doubled over their normal ratings if extreme accuracy is not required."
"This paper describes the circuits, components and packaging of a high performance airborne six-channel FM/FM telemetering system developed by the Lockheed Missile Systems Division for use in the Air Force X-17 Missile Program. The package, weighing 31–1/2 pounds and measuring 8 inches in diameter by 14 inches long obtains highly accurate information under the severe environmental conditions encountered by a hypersonic ballistic missile. By utilizing time division multiplexing on four channels, 79 quantities are measured. A bridge-modulated subcarrier oscillator permits the use of variable reluctance transducers on commutated channels. Where possible, plug-in components were reduced in size by transistorization, printed wiring boards, and encapsulation techniques. The antenna coupling device is a radial folded cavity which carries the full structural load, and permits excitation of longitudinal r-f currents on the surface of the vehicle. The philosophy and techniques associated with the development and application of this system resulted in many useful features providing exceptionally high information capacity, accuracy, reliability, and versatility."
"The PDM portion of a PDM-FM telemeter system for missile operation is described with respect to design philosophy. The system approach has been used in order to produce a compatible marriage of circuitry to the required input and output devices. This has been particularly profitable in the case of the commutator and 70 kc transistor subcarrier oscillator. Transistor circuits have been applied in all cases except the subcarrier oscillator and this is now in the final development stage. This paper discusses several applications which have been successfully transistorized and are now in production. The solutions of problems associated with design for simplicity of circuits, minimum size and weight, ruggedness and reliability are covered."
"A Low-Level Electronic Subcommutator has been designed and developed by Radiation, Inc. This subcommutator (or commutator) uses the low-level switch described1 at the 1957 IRE National Convention and was a parallel development with the switch. Semiconductor devices were used extensively throughout the subcommutator, thus permitting miniaturization and ruggedization even though the circuits are extensive and complex. This paper explains the functioning of this subcommutator by describing the system for which it was designed, the circuits within the subcommutator, and its potential applications."
"The past few years have seen rapid strides in the understanding and use of digital systems. In the field of telemetry, pulse code modulation systems have been developed and tested with excellent results. An airborne PCM system is made up of the analog pickup devices, a switch or multiplexer for sampling more than one channel, an analog-to-digital converter, and an rf transmitter. The objective of this paper is to describe the multiplexing function. First, some of the necessary characteristics unique to PCM are described, followed by a description of a multiplexer that meets these requirements, and finally, a transistorized multiplexer that includes further refinements."
"Low-level transistorized chopper amplifiers have been constructed for a specific missile application. With minor modifications, these amplifiers can meet the requirements for general usage. The chopper is capable of processing 900 signals per second at a common mode rejection of 1000:1. The gain is smoothly adjustable ± 20 percent of full scale and the output is linear within 1 percent of a straight line drawn between the end points. Operation is consistent over a temperature range of +40°F to 165°F with less than 10 percent variation in gain. The amplifier's rise time is less than 300 microseconds. Input impedance is 25 k or better and output impedance is 5 k or less. Ripple is less than 10 millivolts peak."
"Program progress of hypersonic missiles and satellites is dependent upon advances in the telemetering art, for instrumentation must be functional under the imposition of severe environmental extremes. Recently, a solid state FM-FM telemetering system has been developed that is immune to shock and vibration of considerable magnitude. Transistorized units of the solid state system described in this paper are inductance, resistance, and voltage controlled subcarrier oscillators, a missile roll indicator, and a mixing amplifier."
"On September 1, 1955, the Glenn L. Martin Company received the first section of Telemetering Ground equipment for aircraft operation. (slide) Two months later this equipment was used as a ground source for collecting data from a new model aircraft on its initial flight. Although the company has been using Telemetering as a data collecting medium on missiles for several years, the problems encountered in the ensuing year and a half showed that the Glenn L. Martin Company was rather naive in its approach to telemetering for aircraft."
"The tremendous changes in data handling technique encountered over the past few years have opened many new opportunities for the increasingly effective use of telemetering. Many of the advances which have been made, however, pertain directly to the language used by the data processing equipment. This paper discusses the use of both analog and digital data handling with attention to accuracy, frequency response, physical configurations, data storage, and presentation. Attention is given to the type of problems normally presented to computers by the users of telemetering and to the form of output normally considered desirable."
"Although relatively new at Boeing-Wichita, telemetry has justified its past use and indicated its future potential for the flight testing of piloted aircraft. It is the intent of this paper to discuss the air-borne package and ground receiving units operated by Boeing-Wichita, the use made of these units on various flight tests as a means of data transmission, and finally, to evaluate the system as to its limitations and capabilities."
"The Northrop oscillograph reader is an automatic device designed and built to eliminate the previously laborious task of reducing data gathered from telemetering and other engineering tests. Most of the members of this convention are in fields of engineering that require oscillographic recording as a means of capturing data. It is assumed that most engineers are familiar with the old inaccurate system of sharpened pencils and fifty division to the inch rulers and to the era of data reducers with the so called calibrated eyeballs. The procedure in reducing an oscillograph record is to determine the displacement of each trace from a reference line and store this information so that at a later time, by means of a previously determined calibration curve, the displacement can be converted into terms of the original input variable. Recently, several companies have brought forth devices employing manually operated movable crosshairs to represent the two coordinates of deflection and time. These employ analogue-to-digital converters to record the observed data on tabulators or punched cards. While these later machines have a great deal of appeal to the data reducer, any large amount of data to be reduced still represents a very tedious job with accuracies depending for the most part on the physical condition of the operator. In order to produce results from a large amount of data with extreme accuracy, the automatic reader was developed. Initial work was started in October, 1953 and completion took place by October, 1954."
"All too soon the industry will be faced with the problem of transmitting telemeter data over previously unconsidered enormous distances. The flight of an exploratory vehicle which will circle the moon before returning to earth is a definite possibility within the next ten years. The adaptation and refinement of presently available techniques for telemetry is shown to provide a number of feasible possibilities. This paper reviews the basic considerations of RF link design and presents nomographs illustrating their application to great distances, high powers, narrow bandwidths and high receiver sensitivities. New developments including the MASER amplifier, “Paraballoon” antennas and highly stabilized transmitters are discussed. System concepts such as interrogation, directional antenna steering by beacon receivers, data slow-down and storage, and encoding methods are explored."
"A newly designed Computer Controlled Digital Telemeter Editing and Transfer Link makes provision for feeding a mass of data into an IBM 704 or Sperry Rand 1103 Computer for automatic analysis. Provision is made for feeding data into the computer in accordance with a variety of editing criteria. This new approach makes possible telemeter-data analysis and correlation at speeds hitherto unavailable. The digital direct computer link may also be used to bypass primary tape storage for extremely high speed data reduction in real time. Every twenty microseconds a new data word may be translated directly into the computer for rapid analysis and digestion."
"Pulse code modulation provides a highly accurate means of transmitting and recording multichannel instrumentation data. But in addition to accuracy and ease of entry into digital computers, PCM affords other advantages which have not yet been fully realized. Accurate analog outputs are easily obtained from PCM systems for real time recording or processing of data in analog form. Moreover, time scale change during tape playback may be achieved easily and with no loss of accuracy, thereby “matching” the data spectrum to the bandwidth of the analog computing and plotting equipment. Practical techniques for such data handling operations are discussed along with some of the consequences and limitations of these methods."
"A consideration of the parameters that affect critical applications for motor driven commutator switches and a discussion of the degree to which such parameters are being improved through a new switch configuration. Critical applications include low impedance circuits (thermocouples and strain gages), high impedance low signal lead circuits, wide temperature, vibration and shock ambients, accurate timing conditions which do not permit bounce at make or break, and high life reliability. Examples of switch performance in typical circuits demonstrating low noise, bounce free commutation will be included in slides, based on the present production state of the art. Results of environmental testing will be discussed on the basis of available information. In particular, high temperature, acceleration, vibration and life conditions will be described."
"Multichannel Sampling Devices, commonly known as commutators in the Telemetering field, are used in most major multichannel telemetering installations. They are generally used for the purpose of sampling the outputs of a plurality of thermocouples, strain gages or other primary transducers. Although it is sometimes possible to employ other methods of sequential switching, the most effective method at this time involves the use of the mechanical rotary type switches of relatively compact construction in which direct physical electrical contact is achieved. In addition to their use as primary or secondary multiplexing devices in instrumentation systems, they are sometimes employed for the purpose of calibration, programing drift compensation of DC amplifiers, fault indication and for many other purposes."
"The word TARE II is coined from the words Telemetry Automatic Reduction Equipment. TARE II is essentially an automatic translation system developed to convert raw telemetry data into a form which can be read into an electronic digital computer for subsequent computations. Specifically, the digital output format of TARE II was designed for compatibility with the Florida Automatic Computer (FLAG), the central component of the AFMTC data reduction facility. The computer can then be programmed to separate, reduce, linearize, scale, and tabulate the data, in addition to preparing input tapes for automatic plotting and presentation of the data."
"This paper discusses the design considerations Involved in the development of a ruggedized 50-watt rf power amplifier, tunable over the frequency band of 215 to 245 megacycles. The amplification is accomplished in one stage, using an Eimac ceramic tetrode. The unit is capable of operating under severe airborne environmental conditions. Several novel features are incorporated in the amplifier design to match the circuitry to the ceramic tetrode. These features include a tuned input tank composed of two transmission lines, and a tuned transmission-line output tank that has been curved to conserve space. The unit is blower cooled and requires approximately 100 cubic inches of housing volume in its present configuration."
"Described is a completely transistorized strain gage oscillator (S.G.O.). Its primary use is in conjunction with a resistive-type strain bridge transducer to furnish a frequency modulated signal that is directly proportional to an applied force such as stress or pressure. It is expected that due to desirable characteristics it will find major application in the fields of telemetry and remote control, primarily in flight testing of aircraft and missiles. While the S.G.O. vas designed primarily for airborne use, it also has applications (see text) in the fields of spectroscopy, thermmodynamics, and mechanics. The theory of operation of the S.G.O., including mathematical analyses, is described in considerable detail. Special emphasis is placed on the incorporation of transistors. The uses, applications, and performance of the S.G.O. are also discussed together with its electrical and physical characteristics. The transistorized S.G.O. was developed for the AFFTC as a portion of Project DATUM under USAF Contract No. AF 04(611)-683."
"Recently there has been sane interest in a phased-locked loop to replace the bandpass filter in the demodulator section of telemetering systems. Carl Gilchrist of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory of the California Institute of Technology has-done some very interesting work with such loops. The techniques applied by Richman in the development of his “quadricorrelator” scheme are also of interest here3. His article appears in the January 1954 Proceedings of the IRE."
"This paper will discuss the design and performance of a very small electronic commutator which uses symmetrical transistors and subminiature cold cathode tubes. Three variations of the basic design have been built having sampling rates of up to 2000 per second. The error increases with temperature and source impedance; the maximum error at 25°C with 2 K ohms source resistance being 15 millivolts. (on 5.0 volt range). Transistors as defined current switches and environmental test on cold cathode tubes are part of the paper."
"With the advent of pulse width (PW) telemetery, and the addition of full scale and zero reference pulses to keep the ground station in constant calibration; greater accuracy and reduced size have been indicated. Silicon transistors allow operation directly from the 28 volt line plus operation at higher ambient temperatures as a result of a lower ambient rise than is customary with vacuum tube circuitry. Appropriate circuit design allows high input impedance and increased linearity."
"Notations signifying various permutations of 2-level (binary) aggregates permit the tailoring of digital codes to fit particular hardware applications. Definitions of terms and permutation properties are followed by coding techniques and some applications. The techniques are illustrated by code tables that serve as examples for discussions in the text."
"This paper is concerned with experimental and theoretical bandwidths of pulse duration modulation signals. A theoretical evaluation of a hypothetical PDM system is examined and extropolated into the region of standard hardware. The presentation takes the form of curves depicting bandwidth requirements. A look at the mathematics of the PDM curves is taken to show the effect of sampling speed and data frequency. Experimental evaluations are presented in the form of spectrum photographs."
"Recent developments of highly accurate FM and PCM Data Handling Systems have lead to the theoretical consideration of the limits of practical data transmission. When the parameters to be measured are dynamically changing various factors hitherto regarded as of lesser importance become significant. Limitations imposed by sampling rates, sampling apertures, subcarrier separation filters, output low pass filters and cross talk are considered in some detail."
"A general equation for signal/noise output ratio in PDM/FM transmission is presented. Two special cases devised by Feldman-Bennett and Nichols-Rauch are derived and discussed. The performance of PDM/FM/FM is derived, and the advantages of PDM/FM/FM over PAM/FM/FM for very narrow-band subcarrier work are pointed out."
"A pulse-code modulated data-collecting and recording system has been developed especially for airborne applications. Up to 16 channels of analog data can be sampled at a rate of 150 times per second. The sampled information is converted to 8-bit binary code groups with an accuracy of 0.2 percent and then recorded on magnetic tape. The system also provides for recording, along with the data, time history and voice information. This system is compatible with a UKR-7 ground processing system, resulting in a complete data-reduction system that is fast, automatic, and highly accurate."
"Axis crossings of the input wave are fed into a precision delay circuit, using a counted number of re-circulations through a quartz delay line. This delay controls the switching of a regulated current source producing a constant area pulse which is integrated in the output filter. Inverting the usual marked-space relationship provides a unique six-fold increase in stability of electrical parameters. The output filter is an active RC five-pole Tschebercheff. Remote switching between twenty-three channels is accomplished by changing the number of re-circulations and by relay switching the filter elements. A double servo permits setting the zero at 100% points to two initially injected frequencies to allow for individual transducer characteristics."
"The receiving system used at the missile test range in Florida and the West Indies is described. An overall picture of the radio — telemetering ground receiving equipment is offered including the antennas, r-f distribution facilities, and demodulation equipment. Several units of this system have been developed expressly for use at the AFMTC. The requirements leading to the design, along with the performance capabilities and operational utilization of the equipment are discussed. Some significant test results are outlined, and the current methods of testing the receiving system is presented."
"The requirements and methods for changing pulse amplitude modulation to pulse duration modulation are met by a PDM to PAM Converter. This unit functions over a wide range of input signals and can include, if desired, servo correction of zero and full scale references. As part of an integrated system, the converter is augmented with an all electronic commutator simulator, gate generators, and patching facilities. The converter features provisions for switching in the absence of up to five information channels, protection against generation of false master pulses, and a compensated duty-cycle circuit."
"The problems encountered in designing a satisfactory low-level commutation system for thermocouple signals are discussed and the capabilities of the system are outlined. The system as designed is capable of handling grounded, ungrounded and partially grounded thermocouples whose output voltages vary from zero to 10 millivolts. The sampled millivolt output signals are amplified and utilized in a PAM/FM/FM telemetry system meeting the requirements established in the I.R.I.G. standards."
"Start of the above-titled section."
"In conjunction with a program to investigate circuit techniques applicable to digital data reduction systems, various transistor-magnetic circuit combinations have been investigated. In such circuits the transistor is used as a switch1, 2 and the square loop magnetic material3 is switched between opposite saturated states. These transistor-magnetic (Tramag∗) techniques have been used to produce circuits to obtain a pulse-width or frequency output directly proportional to the applied input voltage."
"A method has been developed of normalizing digital measurements of RDB sub-carrier frequencies so that the operator is never required to deal with frequency data. The method has the advantages of the high accuracy inherent in digital measurements together with extreme simplicity of operation and constant resolution for all RDB channels."
"An entirely new magnetic recorder/reproducer system has been developed for Telemetry use. Designed for 7-track, 1/2″ tape and 14″ reels, it is easily convertible to 1/4″ and 1″ tape (2 to 14 tracks). Primary design features are extreme accuracy (.05% peak to peak wow and flutter), versatility (completely interchangeable Analog, PDM and FM electronics, or any combination of these), and mechanical simplicity and reliability."
"For the transmission of data from aircraft and missiles to a ground station, compact, lowpower equipment in the air is mandatory, but considerable complexity can be acceptable for the receiver. To transmit data reliably with low transmitter power under conditions of noise and interference normally encountered in air-to-ground transmissions, one may apply noise suppressing coding techniques such as PCM. In standard PCM a signal consists of a sequence of pulses with positive or negative amplitude, and the signals are detected by sampling the amplitudes and ascribing the value +1 to a positive amplitude and the value −1 to a negative amplitude. An improvement of about 7 db in signal-tonoise power ratio over this system may be obtained by using a detection method based on correlation. The received signal is multiplied by a certain function, and the integral of this product taken over the length of the whole signal assumes the value +1 or −1. For each bit of information in the signal a different multiplying function is used. A signal with eight bits of information will thus be represented by eight integrals of value +1 or −1 each. This “integration system” behaves — as far as noise is concerned-like an “amplitude sampling system” having a bandwidth equal to one half times the pulse rate. Since amplitude sampling systems usually are operated with five times that bandwidth in order to keep the filter distortions sufficiently low, the gain of 7 db mentioned above is obtained."
"Random nonrepetitive pulses space from 0.5 to several hundred microseconds apart originate in a moving source. These time intervals are to be measured and immediately displayed in digital form at a remote point located 10 to 20 miles from the vehicle. This application of telemetering techniques requires a system capable of transmitting, measuring and displaying the time intervals to an accuracy of ± 25 millimicroseconds in addition to providing a signal suitable for ground tracking of the source. A system study was conducted followed by the construction of a laboratory prototype model to demonstrate the feasibility of performing the desired functions. The resulting telemetering system operated at a carrier frequency of 10 KMC, transmitting a CW tracking signal between timing pulses and no signal during a timing pulse. The transient decay time of the system at the beginning of a timing pulse became the rise time of that pulse at the input to the time interval measuring unit. The time is measured in discrete steps of 25 millimicroseconds with a maximum error of ± 1 step or ± 25 millimicroseconds. The time interval measuring and display units are completely electronic in nature. The stored information is permanently displayed on decade counters within a few microseconds after its occurrence and remained until the counters are manually reset. Additional pulses in the system did not affect a display, Prior to measurement, the time interval information can be extracted from the system in analog form suitable for real time simulation or recording; after measurement, the information can be extracted in digital form suitable for computations or recording. It is believed that a system of this type could approach a potential accuracy of ± 10 millimicroseconds while maintaining the same degree of flexibility."
"The engineering of radio systems requires an estimate of the power loss between the transmitter and the receiver. Such estimates are affected by many factors, including reflections, fading, refraction in the atmosphere, and diffraction over the earth's surface. In this paper, radio transmission theory and experiment in all frequency bands of current interest are summarized. Ground wave and sky wave transmission are included, and both line of sight and beyond horizon transmission are considered. The principal emphasis is placed on quantitative charts that are useful for engineering purposes"
"Propagation of short radio waves beyond the horizon is discussed in terms of reflection from layers in the atmosphere formed by relatively sharp gradients of refractive index. The atmosphere is assumed to contain many such layers of limited dimensions with random position and orientation. On this basis, the dependence of the propagation on path length, antenna size and wavelength is obtained."
"A source of interchannel interference in certain multichannel FM systems is the so-called “frequency pulling effect.” This effect, which occurs in systems using a klystron oscillator, is produced by an impedance mismatch between the antenna and the transmission line feeding it. In this paper expressions are developed for the magnitude of the interference when the speech load is simulated by random noise."
"Instantaneous companding may be used to improve the quantized approximation of a signal by producing effectively nonuniform quantization. A revision, extension, and reinterpretation of the analysis of Panter and Dite permits the calculation of the quantizing error power as a function of the degree of companding, the number of quantizing steps, the signal volume, the size of the “equivalent dc component”' in the signal input to the compressor, and the statistical distribution of amplitudes in the signal. It appears, from Bennett's spectral analysis, that the total quantizing error power so calculated may properly be studied without attention to the detailed composition of the error spectrum, provided the signal is complex (such as speech or noise) and is sampled at the minimum information-theoretic rate. These calculations lead to the formulation of an effective process for choosing the proper combination of the number of digits per code group and companding characteristic for quantized speech communication systems. An illustrative application is made to the planning of a hypothetical PCM system, employing a common channel compandor on a time division multiplex basis. This reveals that the calculated companding improvement, for the weakest signals to be encountered in such a system, is equivalent to the addition of about 4 to 6 digits per code group, i.e., to an increase in the number of uniform quantizing steps by a factor between 24 = 16 and 26 = 64 Comparison with the results of related theoretical and experimental studies is also provided"
"The electrohydraulic transducer used in the servos that drive the control surfaces of the NIKE missile is described and its operating characteristics are discussed. Special attention is directed to the secondary dynamic forces that exist in a high-gain device of this type and to the resulting tendency to oscillate. The application of the valve to a servo system is discussed briefly."
"Underground conduits are subjected to external loads caused by the weight of the backfill material and by loads applied at the surface of the fill. These external loads will produce circumferential bending moments in the conduit wall. The magnitude and distribution of the bending moments have been determined by measurements of the circumferential fiber strains in thin-walled metal tubes subjected to the external loads. The effects of different backfill materials, different trench width, and trench depth have been investigated. Bending moments caused by static and dynamic loads have been compared. The bending moments are finally expressed in terms of the required crushing strength."
"Cold cathode gas tubes perform both switching and memory functions in telephone switching systems. One measure of the performance of a switching diode is the switching voltage gain, defined in terms of the characteristics of the device. Some of this gain must be sacrificed in order to increase the switching speed in a way which is analogous to the gain-bandwidth property of a conventional amplifier. In this paper, methods of achieving a high switching-voltage gain are described in terms of the gas discharge processes. An example is given of an application of these principles to a tube for use as a switch in series with the talking path in an electronic telephone switching system."
"Unreproducibility of earlier work on the erosion of relay contacts has been traced to the effects of organic vapors in the atmosphere. Carbon from decomposition of these vapors greatly alters the conditions under which an electric arc can be initiated and can be sustained. The importance from the standpoint of erosion comes from the fact that for many circuit conditions contacts activated by this carbon cannot be protected against severe arcing by any conventional capacitance-resistance network. This paper reports investigations which have enabled us to understand the activation of contacts by organic vapors."
"Information on the environment in which submarine cable systems are placed is of vital interest in designing, selecting routes for, placing, and repairing this type of communications facility. Existing data are summarized and evaluated, and their application to submarine cable systems is considered."
"The increasing use of submarine telephone cable has resulted in the need for information on the performance of organic materials and cable structures under marine conditions. Recently, Bell Telephone Laboratories initiated a program to acquire fundamental data on the resistance of a wide range of organic materials, as well as immediately applicable engineering information. The present progress report describes the program which includes accelerated, laboratory-microbiological tests, as well as the acquisition of data from actual marine exposures. In biochemical oxygen demand-type tests conducted to date polyethylene was not utilized as a carbon source by marine bacteria. Polyvinyl chloride plastics served as a source of energy for the organisms depending on the way in which the materials were plasticized. Five elastomers were utilized by the bacteria. There has been a steady rise in capacitance values for GRS-insulated conductors exposed in sea water and sediment under laboratory conditions for thirteen months. These increases appear due to biological activity on the insulation. The general performance of materials undergoing marine exposure is reported including reference to penetration of a few synthetic materials by marine borers. Brief mention is made of the examination of submarine cable samples from service."
"This paper is an attempt to formulate a comprehensive theory with which the forces and motions of a submarine cable can be determined in typical laying and recovery situations. In addition to the fundamental case of a cable being laid or recovered with a ship sailing on a perfectly calm sea over a horizontal bottom, the effects of ship motion, varying bottom depth, ocean cross currents, and the problem of cable laying control are considered. Most of the results reduce to simple formulas and graphs. Their application is illustrated by examples."
"Generalized telegraphist's equations are derived, following Schelkunoff, for all modes in a curved circular waveguide containing an inhomogeneous dielectric. Particular attention is paid to the coupling between the TE01 mode and other modes in the curved guide. The results are applied to the problem of preventing the mode conversion from TE01 to TM11 which normally occurs in a curved round waveguide, by partially filling the cross section of the curved guide with a suitably shaped dielectric, such as polystyrene foam. Design equations are given for various compensators, and criteria are set up for keeping the power levels of all spurious modes low in a compensated bend. Dielectric losses, which may be important at millimeter wavelengths, are briefly treated. The potentialities of different compensator designs are illustrated by numerical examples."
"The mode conversion from the TE01 wave to the TM11 wave which normally occurs in a curved round waveguide may be reduced by applying a uniform dielectric coat a few mils thick to the inner wall of the waveguide. Such a dielectric coat changes the phase constant of the TM11 wave without affecting appreciably the phase and attenuation constants of the TE01 wave. Thus, relatively sharp bends can be negotiated to change the direction of the line or deviations from straightness can be tolerated. For each of these two cases a different optimum thickness of the dielectric coat keeps the TE01 loss at a minimum. At 5.4-mm wavelength a bending radius of 8 ft in a ⅞-inch pipe or 50 ft in a 2-inch pipe can be introduced with 0.2 db mode conversion loss. Deviations from straightness corresponding to an average bending radius of 300 ft can be tolerated in a 2-inch pipe at 5.4-mm wavelength with an increase in TE01 attenuation of 5 per cent. Serpentine bends caused by equally spaced supports of the pipe may, however, increase the mode conversion and cause appreciable loss at certain discrete frequencies. Compared with the plain waveguide the dielectric-coated guide behaves more critically in such serpentine bends. The mode conversion from TE01 to the TE02, TE03, … waves at transitions from a plain waveguide to the dielectric-coated guide is usually very small."
"An otherwise straight waveguide line with equally spaced discrete supports may deform elastically into a serpentine bend under its own weight. The TE01 wave couples in such bends to the TM11 and TE1n waves. The general solution of coupled lines with varying coupling coefficient is applied to a serpentine bend by an iterative process, and evaluated for the elastic curve resulting from a periodically supported line. TE01-TM11 coupling causes only a small increase in TE01 attenuation. Mode conversion to TE1n waves can become seriously high at certain critical frequencies when the supporting distance is a multiple of the beat wavelength. In a copper pipe of 2⅜ inch O.D. and 2 inch I.D., the mode conversion to the TE12 wave at critical frequencies near 5-mm wavelength causes a TE01 attenuation increase of 90 per cent and a spurious mode level of −7 db. These mode conversion effects can be controlled effectively by inserting mode filters."
"In dielectric-coated round waveguide the degeneracy or equality of phase constants of TE01 and TM11 waves is removed. In such a non-degenerate waveguide, mode conversion in bends can be reduced by changing the curvature gradually instead of abruptly. With curvature tapers, which are of the order of, or longer than, the largest beat wavelength between TE01 and any of the coupled waves, propagation of only one normal mode is maintained throughout the bend. Linear curvature tapers can easily be made by bending the pipe within the limit of elastic deformation. Changes in the direction of a waveguide line can thus be made by inserting a dielectric-coated guide section which is elastically bent over a fixed center point. A thirty degree change of direction of a 2-inch I.D. pipe with 30 ft of a dielectric-coated guide yields a total bend loss at 5.4-mm wavelength that is twice the TE01 loss in 30 ft of straight pipe. An optimum bend geometry is found which minimizes the total bend loss. The normal mode bend is a broadband device"
"Measurements of induced noise currents along drifting cylindrical electron beams have shown that noise fluctuations propagate as space-charge waves in the same fashion as RF signals of the same frequency. On many such beams, however, the regular standing-wave noise pattern is interrupted, after some drift distance, by a smooth steep increase in noise current, followed by slow, shallow undulations. This “growing noise” phenomenon, discovered by Smullin and his co-workers at M.I.T. several years ago, is the subject of study in this paper. Its importance is considerable, in a negative way, because it has hampered the development of medium-power traveling-wave-tube devices with acceptably low noise figures. The experimental measurements show the growing noise pattern to be the result of a two-stage process. Its primary cause is rippled-beam amplification of noise fluctuations over a wide band of microwave frequencies, much higher than the usual observation frequency. This explains its elusiveness. In the second stage, noise energy is transferred to lower frequencies, due to intermodulation and other non-linear processes within the gain band. As the beat-frequency noise increments are excited by continuous arrays of frequency pairs, their standing-wave patterns overlap one another, resulting in a smooth growing-noise pattern"
"Sharp peaks are found in the UHF spectrum (10 to 500 mc) of an electron beam, emanating from a shielded diode. In the presence of a longitudinal magnetic field, the strongly rippled beam displays an additional set of peaks whose frequencies are proportional to the field strength. The largest of these, just above the cyclotron frequency, is connected with the overlap of a dense cluster of particle orbits, passing close to the beam axis. It can attain amplitudes of 65 db above background noise. The transverse distribution of UHF noise power is found to agree with that for ideal Brillouin flow, even in rippled beams. With long ripple wavelengths, two noise maxima are found to flank each beam waist. A small-signal wave analysis explains this pattern, and affords some insight into the energy-exchange processes in rippled-beam amplification. The reduction in “growing noise” due to positive ions is attributed to increased cancellation of net radial beam motion, due to overlap in particle orbits near the axis"
"An expression is given for the FM distortion introduced by a transducer whose attenuation and phase shift depend upon the frequency in an arbitrary way. This expression appears to be difficult to evaluate, but it yields useful approximations for the second and third order modulation terms. In all of the work, it is assumed that the distortion is small compared to the signal, and that the signal can be represented by a random noise having the same power spectrum."
"In self-timing regenerative repeaters, a timing wave for control in pulse regeneration is derived from the binary pulse train at each repeater with the aid of a resonant circuit tuned to the pulse repetition frequency. The timing wave can be made to exercise complete control in retiming of pulses independent of the received pulse train, or it can be combined with the received pulse train to provide partial retiming. The timing principles are discussed here for a particular type of self-timed regenerative repeater invented by Wrathall, in which a timing wave derived from either the received or the regenerated pulse train is combined in a particular way with the received pulse train. The regeneration characteristics of such repeaters as determined by various design parameters are investigated, together with the cumulation of timing deviations in repeater chains and the circuit requirements that must be met to insure satisfactory performance."
"This paper considers a simple telephone exchange model which has an infinite number of trunks and in which the traffic depends on two parameters, the calling-rate and the mean holding-time. It is desired to estimate these parameters by observing the model continuously during a finite interval, and noting the calling-time and hang-up time of each call, insofar as these times fall within the interval. It is shown that the resulting information may, for the purpose of this estimate, be reduced without loss to four statistics These statistics are the number of calls found at the start of observation, the number of calls arriving during observation, the number of calls terminated during observation, and the average number of calls existing during the interval of observation. The joint distribution of these sufficient statistics is determined, in principle, by deriving a generating function for it. From this generating function the means, variances, covariances, and correlation coefficients are obtained. Various estimators for the parameters of the model are compared, and some of their distributions, means, and variances presented."
"The number of calls in progress in a simple telephone exchange model characterized by unlimited call capacity, a general probability density of holding-time, and randomly arriving calls is defined as N(t). A formula, due to Riordan, for the generating function of the transition probabilities of N(t) is proved. From this generating function, expressions for the co-variance function of N(t) and for the spectral density of N(t) are determined. It is noted that the distributions of N(t) are completely specified by the co-variance function."
"Silicon power rectifiers have been made which have reverse breakdown voltages as high as 2,000 volts and forward characteristics comparable to those obtained in much lower voltage devices. It is shown that the magnitude and temperature dependence of the currents can be explained on the basis of space-charge generated current with a trapping level 0.5 eV below the conduction band or above the valence band. The breakdown voltage of a P+ IN+ diode is computed from avalanche multiplication theory and is shown to be a function of the width of the nearly intrinsic region. A simple diffusion process is evaluated and shown to be adequate for diode fabrication. The characteristics of devices fabricated from high-resistivity compensated, floating-zone refined, and gold-doped silicon are presented. The surface limitation to high inverse voltage rectifiers is discussed."
"A number of practical problems, including questions about reliability of Geiger counters and short-circuits in electric cables, reduce to the mathematical problem of coincidences in Poisson patterns. This paper presents the probability of no coincidences as well as asymptotic formulas and simple bounds for that probability under a variety of circumstances. The probability of exactly N coincidences is also found in some cases."
"A study of the problem of providing telephone service to rural customers indicated the need for a flexible carrier system that could be used economically on new and existing rural cable and open wire lines. The desire for low cost required new approaches to almost every phase of the carrier system design for rural service, which has been designated Type P1. Use of transistors led to sweeping changes in the detailed circuitry and also created demand for other new components. Mounting and interconnecting the circuit components by means of printed wiring boards emphasized the necessity for close coordination between design and manufacturing objectives. The low power-drain requirements of transistor circuitry were supplied economically by the use of similar solid state devices, a new storage battery, and efficient packaging A fast, accurate and simple method has been evolved for applying the P1 carrier system to rural lines with a minimum of line treatment or rearrangement. Plug-in equipment, readily accessible test points, and a carrier test set provide the ease of maintenance needed in the use of telephone equipment at remote locations. Use of the P1 carrier system will extend the application of electronic equipment outside of the telephone central office and provide a carrier system whose performance will be consistent with requirements for high quality communication service at low cost"
"The fundamental problems associated with coupled-wave transducers which operate over a 3-to-1 frequency band have been explored and usable solutions found. The experimental models described are directed toward the broad objectives of feeding the horn-reflector antenna with two polarizations of waves in the 4-, 6- and 11-kmc radio relay bands."
"A magnetized gyromagnetic medium is birefringent. The effect of birefringence is studied in rectangular and circular waveguides with special attention paid to propagation characteristics in guides of arbitrarily small cross-section. Propagating, small-size structures are found in certain ranges of magnetization for both types of guide."
"Some experimental techniques are discussed which permit measurement of the magnetic and dielectric properties of ferrite materials in the microwave region by observing the perturbation in a cylindrical cavity due to insertion of a small ferrite sample. A comparison of the properties of thin disc samples with those of small spheres shows that discs yield more accurate results in the region below ferromagnetic resonance whereas spheres are preferable for the study of ferrite properties near resonance. A short description of instrumentation for cavity measurements at 9,200 mc is given and experimental results of disc measurements are reported for a low-loss BTL ferrite and several disc diameters. A comparison of experimental results with Polder's theory indicates that the loss of polycrystalline ferrites below resonance is considerably lower than that predicted from an evaluation of the width of the resonance absorption line."
"This paper discusses some factors which limit the sensitivity of microwave paramagnetic resonance equipments. Several specific systems are analyzed and the results verified by measuring the signal-to-noise ratio with known amounts of a free radical. The two most promising systems, especially at low powers, employ either superheterodyne detection or barretter homodyne detection. A detailed description of a superhetrodyne spectrometer is given."
"Expressions are derived for the pressure coefficients of capacitance of parallel plate capacitors subjected to one-dimensional and hydrostatic pressures and of cylindrical capacitors subjected to radial compression. The derivations apply to systems in which the dielectrics are isotropic, elastic solids."
"The limitation on the rate at which information can be transmitted over an ordinary telephone channel is a human one. In this study people read words as fast as they were able to; from these results some deductions are made about the capacity of a human being as an information channel. The discrepancy between human channel capacity measured thus (40–50 bits/sec) and telephone and television channel capacity (about 50,000 bits/sec and 50,000,000 bits/sec respectively) is provocative."
"From the work of Shannon one knows that it is possible to signal over an error-making binary channel with arbitrarily small probability of error in the delivered information. The effects of errors produced in the channel are to be eliminated, according to Shannon, by using an error correcting code. Shannon's proof that such codes exist does not provide a practical scheme for constructing them, however, and the explicit construction and study of such codes is of considerable interest. Particularly simple codes in concept are the ones called here close packed strictly e-error-correcting (the terminology is explained later). It is shown that for such a code to exist, not only must a condition due to Hamming be satisfied, but also another condition. The main result may be put as follows: a close-packed strictly e-error-correcting code on n, n > e, places cannot exist unless e of the coefficient vanish in (1 + x)e(1 − x)n−1−e when this is expanded as a polynomial in x"
"Tables have been prepared for use in any experiment designed to select that particular one of k binomial processes or populations with the highest (long time) yield or the highest probability of success. Before experimentation the experimenter chooses two constants d and P (0 < d ≦ 1; 0 ≦ P < 1) and specifies that he would like to guarantee a probability of at least P of a correct selection whenever the true difference between the longtime yields associated with the best and the second best processes is at least d. The tables show the smallest number of units required per process to be put on test to satisfy this specification. Separate tables are given for k = 2, 3, 4 and 10. Each table gives the result for d = 0.05 (0.05) 0.50 and for P = 0.50, 0.60, 0.70, 0.75, 0.80, 0.85, 0.90, 0.95, and 0.99. For values of d and P not considered in the tables, graphs are given on which interpolation can be carried out. Graphs have also been constructed to make possible an interpolation or extrapolation for other values of k. An alternative specification is given for use when the experimenter has some a priori knowledge of the processes and their probabilities of success. This specification is then compared with the original specification. Applications of these tables to different types of problems are considered."
"Three methods have been developed for storing information in a coincident-current manner on magnetic wire. The resulting memory cells have been collectively named the “twistor”. Two of these methods utilize the strain sensitivity of magnetic materials and are related to the century old Wertheim or Wiedemann effects; the third utilizes the favorable geometry of a wire. The effect of an applied torsion on a magnetic wire is to shift the preferred direction of magnetization into a helical path inclined at an angle of 45° with respect to the axis. The coincidence of a circular and a longitudinal magnetic field inserts information into this wire in the form of a polarized helical magnetization. In addition, the magnetic wire itself may be used as a sensing means with a resultant favorable increase in available signal since the lines of flux wrap the magnetic wire many times. Equations concerning the switching performance of a twistor are derived An experimental transistor-driven, 320-bit twistor array has been built. The possibility of applying weaving techniques to future arrays makes the twistor approach appear economically attractive."
"If a noisy channel is used to transmit more than two distinct signals, information may have to be specially coded to permit occasional errors to be corrected. If pulse amplitude modulation is used, the most probable error is a small one, e.g., 6 is changed to 7 or 5. Codes for correcting single small errors, and for correcting single small errors and detecting double small errors, in a message of arbitrary length, for an arbitrary number of different signals in the channel, are derived in this paper. For more specialized situations, the error is not necessarily restricted to a small value. Codes are derived for correcting any single unrestricted error in a message of arbitrary length for an arbitrary number of different signals Finally, a set of codes based partially upon the Reed-Muller codes is described for correcting a number of errors in a more restricted class of message lengths for an arbitrary number of different signals The described codes are readily implemented. Many techniques are used which have an analog in a binary system. Other techniques are broadly analogous to binary coding techniques or are special adaptations of a binary code."
"The basic problem considered is that of interconnecting a given set of terminals with a shortest possible network of direct links. Simple and practical procedures are given for solving this problem both graphically and computationally. It develops that these procedures also provide solutions for a much broader class of problems, containing other examples of practical interest."
"This paper concerns itself with the analysis of a type of periodically switched network that might be used in time multiplex systems. The economics of the situation require that the ratio of the switch closure time τ to the switching period T be small. Using this assumption, the analysis is performed by successive approximations. More precisely the zeroth approximation to the transmission is obtained from a block diagram analogous to those used in sampled servomechanisms. From the convergence proof of the successive approximation scheme, it follows that when τ/T is small, the zeroth approximation is very close to the exact transmission. A discussion of some examples is included."
"To determine the effect of improved equalization on the performance of TD-2 radio relay systems, an experimental adjustable transversal equalizer has been developed. The equalizer is based on the echo principle as used in transversal filters, and operates in the 60- to 80-mc frequency band. Seven pairs of adjustable leading and lagging echo terms provide flexibility for simultaneous gain and delay equalization. Directional couplers are used for tapping and controlling the echo voltages. Field experiments have shown that system equalization can be improved appreciably by the use of such equalizers."
"An exploration is reported of the possibilities of a moderately fast data transmission system to use private line message facilities. A comparatively conventional system was desired to permit expeditious application. An auxiliary “word start” signal was necessary for the system considered. Transmission characteristics of a number of arrangements were examined. These included several exploratory AM vestigial sideband systems (using a spectrum similar to telephotography), double sideband AM systems, various telegraph and other multichannel systems It was concluded that the 1600 bits per second usable over the AM vestigial sideband arrangement was about as fast as could be expected with the data system contemplated. This transmission is not as “rugged,” with respect to impulse noise and sudden level changes, as other slower arrangements, but it is expected to be satisfactory. It will require delay correction, and simple methods are considered for carrying this out."
"The Vernier Resolver is a precision angle transducer which, from the stand-point of performance, resembles a geared up synchro resolver, except that the step-up ratio between the mechanical angle and the electrical signal is obtained electrically. Vernier resolvers with step up ratios of 26, 27, 32 and 33 have been designed and built. The unit is a reluctance type, variable coupling transformer. By placing all windings on the stator, sliding contacts are eliminated. Both the stator and the rotor are laminated. Because of the averaging effect inherent in a laminated construction, the accuracy of the unit exceeds by many times the machining accuracy. The performance of present experimental units is characterized by a repeatability of better than ±3 seconds of shaft angle, and a standard deviation error over one full revolution of less than 10 seconds of arc."
"The papers that follow describe the design, manufacture and installalion of the first transatlantic teleph one cable system with all its component parts, including the connecting microwave radio-relay system in Nova Scotia. The purpose of this introd uction is to set the scene in which this project was undert aken, and to discuss the technical contribution it has made to the development of world communications."
"The transatlantic telephone cable system was designed as a link connecting communication networks on the two sides of the Atlantic. The technical planning of the system and the objectives set up so that this role would be fulfilled, are the principal subjects of this paper. Typical performance characteristics illustrate the high degree with which the objectives have been realized. Optimum application of the experience of the British Post Office with rigid repeaters and the Bell System with flexible repeaters, together with close cooperation among three administrations, have played a large part in achieving the objectives."
"The purpose of this paper is to examine the design and performance of the North Atlantic link, including consideration of factors governing the choice of features, a description of the operational design of the facility, and an outline of those measures available for future application in the event that faults or aging require corrective action."
"Some of the considerations governing the electrical and mechanical design of flexible repeaters and their component apparatus are discussed in this paper. The discussion includes description of the feedback amplifier and the sea-pressure resisting container that surrounds it. Examples are given of some of the extraordinary measures taken to ensure continuous performance in service."
"Production of submarine telephone cable repeaters, designed to have a minimum trouble-free life of twenty years, required many new and refined manufacturing procedures. Care in the selection and training of personnel, manufacturing environment, inspection, and testing, were of great importance in the successful attainment of the ultimate objective. Although quality of product has always been of major significance in Western Electric Company manufacture, building electronic equipment for use at the bottom of the ocean, where maintenance is impossible and replacement of apparatus extremely expensive, required unusual manufacturing methods."
"Precise regulation of the direct current which provides power for the undersea repeaters in the new transatlantic telephone cable is necessary to maintain proper transmission levels and to assure maximum repeater tube life. The highest possible degree of protection is needed against excessive currents and voltages under a wide variety of possible fault conditions. Furthermore, to minimize the dielectric stresses, a double-ended series-aiding power feed must be used and the balance of these applied voltages must be maintained in spite of substantial earth potentials. This paper describes the design features which were employed to attain these objectives simultaneously, while eliminating, for all practical purposes, any possibility of even a brief system outage due to power failure."
"Electron tubes for use in repeatered underwater telephone cable systems must be capable of operating for many years with a reasonable probability of proper functioning. In the new transatlantic telephone cable system the section of the cable between Nova Scotia and Newfoundland contains repeaters developed by the British Post Office Research Station at Dollis Hill. These repeaters are built around the type 6P12 tube developed at that research station. The repeaters contained in the section of the cable system between Newfoundland and Scotland are of Bell System design and depend on the 175HQ tube developed at Bell Telephone Laboratories. In this paper the philosophy of repeater and tube design is discussed, and the fundamental reasons for arriving at quite different tube designs are pointed out. Some of the tube development problems and the features introduced to eliminate potential difficulties are described. Electrical characteristics for the two types are presented and life test data are given. Fabrication and selection problems are outlined and reliability prospects are discussed"
"The transatlantic cable project required that two repeatered cables be laid in the deep-water crossing between Newfoundland and Scotland, and one across the shallower waters of Cabot Strait. The same structure was adopted for the cables laid in the two locations. This paper discusses the considerations leading to design of the cable and describes the method of manufacture, the means and equipment for control of cable quality, the process and final inspection procedures, the electrical characteristics of the cable, and factors relating to mechanical and electrical reliability of the final product"
"The design and engineering of the section of the transatlantic cable system between Newfoundland and Nova Scotia were the responsibility of the British Post Office. The transmission objectives for this link having been agreed in relation to the overall objectives, the paper shows how these were translated into system and equipment design and demonstrates how the objectives were realized."
"The Newfoundland-Nova Scotia cable required the provision of 16 submerged repeaters each transmitting 60 circuits in the bands 20–260 kc from Newfoundland to Nova Scotia and 312–552 kc in the opposite direction. The paper deals with the design and production of these repeaters. Each repeater has a gain of 60 db at 552 kc, and the amplifier consists of two forward amplifying paths with a common feedback network. Reliability is of paramount importance, and production was carried out in an air-conditioned building with meticulous attention to cleanliness and to very rigid manufacturing and testing specifications. The electrical unit is contained in a rigid pressure housing 9 feet long and 10 inches in diameter with the sea cables connected to an armor clamp and a cable gland at each end. A submerged equalizer was provided near the middle of the sea crossing."
"Design engineers now have available the results of many years of operating experience with submerged-repeater systems supplied from electronic, electromagnetic and rotary-machine power equipments. To meet the very high standards of reliability required for the transatlantic telephone system, a scheme has been evolved that is a combination of new developments and the best features of previous methods. Electronic-electromagnetic equipment forms the basis of an automatic no-break system requiring very little routine maintenance."
"The repeatered submarine cables which form the backbone of the transatlantic telephone cable project were installed during the good weather periods of 1955 and 1956. This paper considers the factors entering into the selection of the routes, describes the planning and execution of the laying task and presents a few observations on the human side of the venture. It also covers briefly the routing of some 55 nautical miles of repeatered submarine type cable which were trenched in across the neck of the Burin Peninsula in Newfoundland to connect the Terrenceville submarine terminus with the cable station at Clarenville."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"It is our lot today to live in the time of the Pistol and the Claw: the threatening pistol of strategic massive retaliation wielded by the “great adversaries,” and the incisive tactical claw serving to deter small-scale aggression and the so-called little wars. These ponderous entities place heavy demands upon the muscles of industry and the superiority of the technological fields."
"It is indeed an honor to be invited to submit an article to the very first issue of the PGMIL Transactions. I have had a sort of “preview” of the list of articles to be included in this first issue and the editors are to be congratulated on their selections."
"Our IRE Professional Group on Military Electronics is now eighteen months old and has matured to the extent of proudly recognizing 10 chapters and some 2500 members. Its future looks very bright and there is an attitude of “going places” among its membership."
"Electronics has found application in almost every phase of warfare. One can go further and state that modern weapons systems would not be possible without reliable electronic equipment. Since technology is always changing rapidly, the military functions of logistics, weapon control, intelligence, and command call for an ever-improving pattern of electronic aids in order to keep pace with the supersonic missiles and the destructiveness of atomic weapons."
"IN THE physical sciences — physics, chemistry, and many branches of engineering — one starts studying a phenomenon by picking some phase or aspect of it, by observing some part of its manifold behavior. According to folklore, Newton started his study of gravitation by watching the fall of an apple, not the breaking of the apple stem, not the apple's bounce as it hit, but its falling to the ground. Next, after observation, in the physical sciences one tries to form a quantitative hypothesis, a mathematical model of the aspect observed, which will duplicate quantitatively some of its behavior. If one has been clever, or lucky, in his choice of model, its mathematical framework will go beyond the observations, will predict what might happen in other circumstances. Newton's gravitational hypothesis, for example, his mathematical model of action at a distance, predicted the possible motions of a baseball, of a bullet, and of the moon."
"This is not intended to be free verse. Writing each phrase on a separate line facilitates rapid reading, and everyone is in a hurry nowadays."
"This paper opens our Famous Battle Series with an account — from an electronic point of view — of the daring escape up the English Channel of the German ships Scharnhorst, Gneisenau, and Prinz Eugen during World War II. We hope to follow this in a later issue with an analysis from the German side."
"WE LIVE in an era of tremendous advances of science and technology, and almost every month brings some exciting new development. The progress of scientific research is accelerating from year to year, and the number of persons involved in scientific inquiry increases correspondingly. Our big telescopes search into the far corners of the stellar universe, bringing us invaluable information about its present and its past. Our giant multibillion-volt atom smashers help us solve the secrets of the elementary particles from which all material bodies are made, and advanced methods of modern biological studies bring us to the verge of solving the mystery of all mysteries: the nature of life."
"George Gamow, one of the world's foremost scientists in the field of theoretical physics, was born in Odessa, Russia, on March 4, 1904. He received the Ph.D. degree in physics from the University of Leningrad in 1929, and attended the University of Copenhagen as a Fellow of the Theoretical Physics Institute in 1928 and 1929. In 1929–1930 he was a Fellow of Rockefellow Foundation at Cambridge, England, and returned to the University of Copenhagen on a fellowship again from 1930–1931. He was a professor at the University of Leningrad from 1931 to 1933, and the following year was a Fellow of Pierre Curie Institute in Paris. From 1934 to 1956 he was a professor of theoretical physics at George Washington University. At present, Dr. Gamow is professor of physics at the University of Colorado."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"An Award to be known as the M. Barry Carlton Award for the best paper published in the PGMIL Transactions has been approved by IRE headquarters. An Awards Committee has been authorized by a change in the By-Laws and will judge the Award."
"With the institution of the M. Barry Carlton award for the best paper of the year, a real personal incentive has been established to generate interesting and informative papers for publication in the PGMIL Transactions. This marks another step taken in the long-range program to develop a professional journal of unique significance in the field of military electronics. The objective of the program is to stimulate new lines of thought. By cross-breeding the various scientific disciplines, even old ideas can take on new importance. By presenting the fundamental concepts underlying the present state of the various electronic arts, and perhaps speculating upon some of their logical extensions, new concepts may evolve that could lead ultimately to truly important discoveries."
"Several things have happened to PGMIL since we last went to press and they are all most encouraging."
"The paper is a narrative account of two years of intensive effort by the Navy and civilian engineers which, after many trying periods, achieved success on July 30, 1935, when a completely hooded instrument landing was made aboard the aircraft carrier, USS Langley, 100 miles at sea off San Diego, Calif. In the summer of 1933, when the aircraft carrier emerged as the future striking power of our Navy, Rear Admiral Ernest King, Chief of the Bureau of Aeronautics (later Fleet Admiral King), was hunting for every means to improve the capability of our carriers. One of the most important was their ability to operate in all types of weather. As a result of his examination of the Bureau of Standards' development work on an instrument landing system, he negotiated a contract with the Washington Institute of Technology to apply the basic principles and modify this system for aircraft carrier operations. The Washington Institute of Technology was formed specifically for the purpose of developing this system under the presidency of Sidney Mashbir. The development engineers were Gomer Davies and Dr. Frank G. Kear. Lieutenant Frank Akers, U. S. Navy (now Rear Admiral), was designated the project officer and flight test pilot for this effort. The small field at College Park, Md., was chosen as the location for the tests. Throughout the fall and winter of 1933 and 1934, the equipment was built and many test flights made. A satisfactory installation was completed so that by May, 1934, completely hooded instrument landings were being made regularly at the College Park Airport. Satisfied with the success of the ground installation, Admiral King decided to have the equipment installed aboard our first aircraft carrier, the USS Langley. The structural work was done at the Norfolk Naval Shipyard at Portsmouth, Va. The Langley sailed back with the fleet to the Pacific Ocean. The equipment installation was completed by the fall of 1934 and flight tests began. Many unexpected problems were encountered particularly in regard to the glide path and localizer. These resulted in some rather major modifications, but eventually they were solved and an entirely satisfactory system was completed which resulted in the successful landing at sea by Lt. Akers on July 30, 1935."
"The electronics industry today faces its greatest challenge, the development of a system to control remotely a space-research vehicle. It must prepare man's path into space. A two-way radio data link will be one specific goal. This link should transfer data between Earth and vehicle to provide guidance and observation data, and to permit control of vehicle trajectory and instrumentation through an Earth-to-vehicle control loop. The system should operate out to Mars, a distance of 50 million miles, under extremes of temperature and radiation far above present standards, and with self-contained power sources. A radar-beacon data link providing guidance through a simple inertial autopilot would appear to be a reasonable approach, based upon extensions to presently-developed techniques. Operating with Earth-based, 500-mc radars resembling present trans-horizon communications equipment, a vehicle beacon of 2-kw output power would permit vehicle orbiting of the Moon; 6 megw would be required to reach Mars. The respective Earth transmitters would require 200-kw and 600-megw power output. Present remote-control equipment will not meet all the above needs; significant advances must be made before man can venture with confidence into space."
"THE submarine of the future promises to be the most versatile and most powerful warship ever conceived by man. The appearance of this new submarine will pose tasks for all engineers in finding counter-measures and I think that it is timely to begin thinking about that now."
"Frank Akers was born in Nashville, Tenn., March 28, 1901. After secondary schooling at Wallace Univ., he entered the Naval Academy at Annapolis and graduated with a Bachelor of Science degree in 1922. He served on the destroyers of our Pacific Fleet until he was assigned to flight training at Pensacola and was designated a naval aviator in 1925. He again returned to the fleet where he was in various fighting squadrons until ordered back in 1928, as an instructor in the Flight Training School at Pensacola."
"This paper outlines TV-system improvements instituted in recent years which produce and maintain the ability to reproduce proper black level (or d-c restoration) in the television receiver. The necessity for proper black-level control in the production of TV pictures having good fidelity is discussed, and factors which caused its importance to be minimized in the past are noted. Specific equipment and instrumentation advances which have resulted partly from the advent of color television are also described. The entire TV system, from the studio to the receiver, is considered. A suggested waveform standard that can be used to achieve day-to-day and station-to-station uniformity of black-level reproduction is illustrated."
"Experiments indicate that television viewers select a viewing distance at which the line structure begins to disappear. If the line structure is destroyed, the preferred viewing distance is reduced to about 60%. Other advantages and the disadvantages of eliminating the line structure are discussed. Several methods of eliminating it are described. The results of an experimental comparison of television pictures with and without structure suppression are given. A photographic comparison is also given."
"A printing method is described that gives high quality motion-picture prints from badly scratched negatives. Both the negative and print film are completely immersed at the printing aperture in a liquid having an index of refraction close to that of gelatin and acetate support. The process nearly completely eliminates the printing effect of scratches and other surface irregularities on the negative, and improves the definition of positive prints by providing a continuous optical medium through which the exposing light passes from the negative to the print film. A step contact liquid-immersion printer and a continuous contact liquid-immersion printer are described."
"This paper describes an electronic flashtube which is designed primarily for data-recording applications in modern military aircraft where it is desired to obtain photographic records of moving dials, etc. The FX-4 is explosionproof, waterproof and is able to withstand rigid shock and vibration requirements of modern aircraft. The lamp is completely encapsulated in an epoxy resin, permitting the tube to be operated at altitudes of 70,000 ft or submerged in water. It is resistant to extreme temperature variations, shock and vibrations. Typical examples of its applications are described."
"A new portable power supply has been designed for operation of high-speed cameras in temporary locations. Objective was to have a mobile operational unit which could be taken to test site and placed in service quickly, with all necessary electrical power obtained from the plant's 3-phase power systems. An enclosed trailer contains a permanent installation of transformers, electrical distribution systems and circuit controls, and provides storage space for cameras and accessories. The cameraman's remote panel which controls operation of lights, cameras and test event can also function as control center for complete test program and all instrumentation."
"A conventional schlieren system for the observation of gas flows in modified by the addition of two plane mirrors to provide two simultaneous views of a test section at right angles to each other. Two views of a cylinder hit by a shockwave are presented as an example."
"Comparative measurements demonstrating the film behavior in curved and straight gates are given. The analysis takes account of operation under high light levels with two- and three-bladed shutters."
"DON MALKAMES' Personal collection of old projectors, gathered over the past 25 years, includes more than a hundred machines and numerous accessories, dating back to the middle 1800's."
"A method is described for optical printing motion-picture film by the use of a projection gate that immerses the film in a liquid of matching refractive index. This permits highly specular printing illumination since scratches and surface irregularities on the film have relatively little optical effect under these conditions. Experimental trials of this method have been carried out using Eastman Color films at a speed of 90 ft/min."
"The National Film Board of Canada has undertaken a project to design and construct a new headquarters for all of its operations including production, distribution and technical facilities. This paper describes the building and its functions. Problems of overall planning, site selection, layout and construction are described in detail."
"Special building techniques have permitted the attainment of a high degree of sound isolation in the Montreal studios of Canada's National Film Board. A description is given of these techniques and of the methods whereby the various theaters and recording studios were given suitable acoustic characteristics. The apparatus and procedures used in the acoustic measurements are described."
"The National Film Board of Canada has a new studio in Montreal with Sound Division's facilities which include recording consoles, a music recording channel, magnetic loop recorders and a new concept in interlock motor control equipment. The engineering methods used to integrate existing recording equipment into a new, enlarged and more flexible system are discussed."
"The National Film Board of Canada has recently occupied its new headquarters in Montreal. The laboratory is planned to handle production and release work in 35mm and 16mm black-and-white for theatrical, nontheatrical and television distribution and 16mm negative-positive and reversal color for the nontheatrical field. The layout, functions and auxiliary services are described. Features of the new plant are the 16mm negative-positive color developing machine, the first of its kind built in Canada, and a 16mm black-and-white developing machine designed by the Board."
"A recording system employing perforated quarter-inch tape is described. The paper discusses techniques and equipment for editing Sprocketape recordings."
"Perforated tape or cards have advantages in a control system for broadcast operation. The features and application of the General Electric BC-16-A Automatic Control System are outlined. Possibilities for TV operation and for AM and FM broadcasting are cited."
"The use of three-channel automatic gain control, precision gamma circuits, and high-level black clipper yields long-time stability of the critical parameters affecting color balance. With large amounts of negative feedback in the monitoring section, drastic reduction in the number of controls, and built-in calibration features, setup and adjustment can be rapidly accomplished."
"An automatic programming device depends on automatic gain control in typical TV applications. An “All Electronic” AGC with sufficient operational range for use as an integral part of a monochrome vidicon film center is described and compared to other gain-control methods. An automatic programmer also lends itself to the switching functions of a color film center using the flying-spot-scanner principle."
"The problem of determining how much of the picture telecast by a standardized TV station is received on the home receiver is one of vital importance to station employees as well as to program sponsors. A test conducted with the cooperation of WRCA-TV provided data which were used to define “Safe Areas” in telecasting."
"The first report on the discovery of the infrared transparency of magnetic tracks was published in the September 1957 Journal. In this Progress Report the author discusses further tests, the effect of the thickness of the magnetic oxide deposit upon its transmittance, and the results of intermodulation measurements on a 35mm reproducer converted for utilization of the transparency effect. Films which demonstrated the application of the phenomenon for bilingual and stereophonic recordings, and the modification of a projector for the use of such films, are described."
"Ferricyanide, the oxidizing agent of a silver bleach, is prepared by adding potassium persulfate to a solution of a ferrocyanide. The method may be applied for the preparation of a fresh bleach or for the regeneration of a used bleach. The preparation is simple and the ferricyanide may be produced at a substantial saving over purchasing potassium ferricyanide. Methods are included for analyzing the bleach constituents."
"To improve the efficiency of printing operations on large release orders for 16mm subjects of 300 ft to 1400 ft in length, compact loop trees were built in an arrangement similar to conventional processing machine drying cabinets. The film transport employs sprockets and special nylon rollers, and is driven by a flexible connection to an auxiliary gearbox on the printer. The trees are used with dual-head printers and will accommodate picture and sound loops as long as 1400 ft. The life of pre-print films is exceptionally good on this equipment. High production efficiency has been realized, with an average of 85% operating time on long printing runs."
"A process called Permafilm has been developed to prevent film damage. Impregnated into the emulsion, the effect of the compound is to toughen the emulsion while maintaining its resiliency. It does not require renewal. It deters scratches and abrasions, prevents warping, curling brittleness and negative shrinkage. Color fading is reduced to a minimum and new film pliability remains permanent."
"During the last five years a number of systems for distribution of entertainment-type TV programming via wire to homes of paying subscribers have been successfully installed and operated. This paper considers the design and economic factors which have led to the systems currently being installed. Areas for potential improvement are outlined. Systems to provide for different billing procedures are briefly discussed. Some implications for the future are the result of this study."
"Television promises the first major technological revolution in education since the invention of movable type. Within the past six years, 136 closed circuits have been installed in educational institutions. The controversial subject of television as a technique of education is discussed in this paper."
"This paper describes a radio-frequency transmission system used to transmit six simultaneous television channels from studios to 23 schools in Washington County, Md. This TV network is a part of the facilities provided for a five-year national educational experiment to evaluate the use of television as an aid to education."
"Teaching by television has been tested in the elementary and high schools of Washington County, Md. The effectiveness of this method is evaluated and the problems encountered, particularly with respect to equipment and facilities, are described."
"This paper is a very brief summary of practices used in the several Hollywood studios. Significant factors which have been observed and problems which are encountered are mentioned."
"When magnetic soundtracks are edited and then reproduced for motion-picture re-recording or other purposes, the splices in the track frequently cause audible “pops” to be heard in the reproduced program material. Improperly erased magnetic film or tape is one of the causes of this noise which can be eliminated by use of an eraser which does not produce “spokes.”"
"This paper describes the design and construction of two small coating machines, one for film, and the other for glass. Special features of these machines include the adaptability for use with a variety of coating liquids, the ability to be operated with very small volumes of liquid, and simple means for the accurate control of the layer thickness. The film-coating machine incorporates a new coating head which is especially useful for the application of volatile coating liquids and multilayer coatings. The working principles and performance characteristics are illustrated by typical applications."
"A method for adding titles to conventional processed image-bearing photographic materials is described. The procedure involves preparation of a black-and-white title positive, coating of the film with a photo-resist material, exposure and development of the resist, selective removal of the title images by the action of destructive solutions and, finally, removal of the resist. The method has been successfully used with Kodachrome, Ektachrome, Eastman Color Print Film and black-and-white films. Applications include titles for motion-picture release prints, slidefilms and individual transparencies."
"(These are the remarks made at the Get-Together Luncheon at Philadelphia, October 4, 1957, by Mr. Smith, who is Executive Vice-President, Industrial Electronic Products, Radio Corporation of America. Except for very minor changes, Mr. Smith's engineering “editorial” is presented below.)"
"AT EACH convention it is customary to report briefly on the progress of our Society since we last met, to pause a moment to consider our present position, and perhaps to peer at our future as best we can."
"A general qualitative introduction to the semiconductor diode and transistor is presented. The wartime development of the point contact rectifier led to the discovery of the point contact transistor, which was followed by the invention of the junction diode and transistor having many superior properties. The basic physical principles of operation and various commercial devices are discussed. High-frequency effects, and modified forms of the original transistor which improve the high-frequency performance, are described."
"The junction transistor and diode with support from saturable magnetic core have deepened the area of study and application in solid state electronics. While transistors are at a disadvantage in temperature sensitivity when compared to tubes, their ruggedness, longevity, lack of heater supply and high circuit efficiency should soon make them the principal active circuit element. Transistors operate on a dual basis analogous to tubes and yet in different modes. As a switch, they are superior to tubes and offer many advantages over electromechanical relays. With saturable cores they compete successfully with certain rotating machines and offer a large class of almost unexplored electronic circuits."
"Advances in transistor-device technology and production are hastening the introduction of this device in motion-picture and television equipment. This paper reviews the progress in device characteristics—i.e., gain, bandwidth, frequency, noise, power and life survival; the effect of tremendous increase of usage in the portable-radio, automobile-radio and computer industries on quantity production and unit price; and the net result in providing devices which meet the needs of the television and motion-picture fields."
"A seven-position portable mixer has been transistorized throughout. Its electrical facilities and mechanical construction are described fully, including a detailed circuit description of the individual transistorized amplifiers and explanation of constructional features. Excellent stability, low distortion and a very good signal-to-noise ratio have been obtained with this equipment."
"This paper describes some of the methods used to operate high-intensity carbon-are lamps continuously for several hours. The cost of special carbons and other factors limit their use. The development of less expensive methods would be a great improvement of the carbon-arc lamp."
"Ways of comparing the reflecting and light-distribution properties of several theater-screen surfaces are described. Comments are made on instruments (integrating spheres, goniophotometers, spectrophotometers and brightness meters) used in comparing screen surfaces. Lenticular-screen design and “gain” formulas are presented with examples of their use in estimating a screen's performance. Data on white, “silver” or aluminum, beaded, pearl and lenticular screens are included."
"One of the important factors in determining the quality of either a television or motion-picture image is the ambient light to which the image is subjected and the effect of this light on the reproduced picture. Some of the means which have been employed to minimize the effects of ambient light on picture reproduction are reviewed. A method has been developed which under favorable conditions has produced startling results in permitting the reproduction of both television and motion-picture images under adverse ambient-light conditions. The paper describes this method and gives experimental data illustrating its effectiveness under typical conditions. Some of its limitations are indicated."
"A simple color schlieren system which uses the chromatic aberration of two spherically corrected field lenses to produce a color image has been developed. This system is used extensively in explosion studies and other investigations requiring high-speed photography."
"Fidelity of motion-picture images for both visual and quantitative analysis depends upon several factors including optical resolution, image blur, image contrast, image shape characteristics and differential movement of the image from frame to frame. These various factors were considered in a series of practical tests using standard analytical techniques and equipment to determine the contribution of each factor to the overall accuracy of 16mm film evaluation."
"The flicker-free, slow-motion and single-frame projector described in the November 1954 issue of the SMPTE Journal has been completely redesigned to give more reliable and smoother operation. In the transition from cine to single-frame projection, the 5-blade shutter is shifted to one side, leaving a single 42° blade to occult the film aperture during film transport. An electrical interlock in the push-button-triggering circuit excludes any possibility of overrun and assures uniform registration of successive frames. Also described is an experimental version of the projector with a 10-blade shutter and 12° pulldown. It provides relatively flicker-free projection at speeds from 5 to 3 frames/sec."
"THE GROWTH and development of the Society, the diversity and widening applications of motion-picture and television engineering, the effectiveness of equipment exhibits in recent years, and the general state of business activity are factors which now compel an evaluation of the Society's convention policies. The question has been raised not only as a normal policy question by the Convention Vice-president making his report to the Board of Governors, but also by various individual and sustaining members and by the equipment exhibitors who now participate in our convention activities."
"The paper discusses the sound-level reductions of barriers such as solid walls and fences interposed between the source of noise and the point of observation. The formulas for the calculations are obtained from the optical case in which light is directed against a knife-edge and the light intensity is measured in the shadow (penumbra). The article contains curves showing the sound-level reduction as a function of frequency and wall height for constant distance from source to wall and from wall to observer, as well as curves showing level reduction at 100 cycles as a function of wall height and distance between noise source and wall, while the observation distance is kept constant."
"Development of improved translucent screens for process projection has resulted from improved manufacturing techniques which have been accompanied by a systematic study of the characteristics of these screens and improved instrumentation for measuring and controlling these characteristics. This paper discusses the “semi-diffuse” transmission of light by translucent screens, using an empirical approach which has been found very useful in the analysis of these screens and which can readily be adapted to reflective screens as well. Applications of this method to the analysis of screen characteristics are considered and a way of rating screen performance against the optimum which might be expected for a given type of screen is indicated."
"Important developments in studio color techniques that are possible through use of a new high-intensity variable-color luminous wall are discussed. This wall can be provided with means for instant control of hue, chroma and brightness and, for areas up to 3000 sq ft, need be only 12 in. deep. A luminous background of this type can immediately produce important color shifts in appearance of foreground objects, enabling color defects to be remedied. Group colors in a foreground arrangement can be harmonized and specific colors emphasized. Dramatic possibilities include mobile color effects, luminous skies, design patterns, scenic effects, silhouettes and color contrasts. Technical information concerning brightness values, color range, current consumption and control methods are also discussed."
"A television system known as “Scanoscope” has been developed in which the aspect ratio has been changed from the conventional 4 × 3 format into an 8 × 3 presentation. Advantages are analogous to those in wide-screen motion pictures. The process is based on the Scanoscope lens described in the succeeding paper in this Journal. This lens squeezes the image on the camera focal plane, from which it is transmitted with the required megacycle bandwidth. The image is unsqueezed electronically in the monitor. The optical and electronic features are described."
"An anamorphic lens known as “Scanoscope” has been developed for use in motion pictures and television. The optical design is described, showing how the aberrations are controlled over a field angle of 80° or more. A unique coupling arrangement allows this lens to be used interchangeably with camera lenses of different focal length in a unit focus arrangement. Application of this system to the Mitchell NC and BNC cameras is described."
"Prestriped magnetic sound on 16mm film as compared to 16mm single-system photographic sound provides the quality advantages of an extended high-frequency response, improved signal-to-noise ratio and lower harmonic distortion. Operating experiences with striped magnetic sound in relation to film striping, camera photography, laboratory processing, editing, film cleaning, printing, projection and library storage are described."
"The Bell & Howell Company's new Design 200-EE camera incorporates a self-powered compact automatic iris control. Mechanical power to drive the lens iris originates from a small direct-current, permanent-magnet motor driven by mercury batteries. A photovoltaic cell deflects a relay meter according to average scene brightness, and opening or closing the motor-battery circuit causes the lens iris to be properly positioned. The camera and its method of use are described."
"This paper describes an all-electronic film footage, frame or scene counter, with features not usually found in projection-room counters. The method of obtaining a large visible read-out, instant zero-set and other features, without noise or heat-producing components, is noted. A brief description of electronic beam-switching tubes is included."
"This paper covers the design of a compact high-speed processor which incorporates the use of a modular “building-block” construction. The application of this principle allows the integration of the functional components of a particular spray chamber into a readily serviced unit. In this paper a reliable method for providing a vaportight seal in a spray chamber is described; and the inclusion of a washdown system as a means of preventative maintenance is discussed."
"In 1945 the SMPE Committee on Motion Picture Instruction was established to collect information for the Society on motion-picture course offerings in the nation's colleges, universities and institutes. Chairman John G. Frayne reported the findings of the first study in the Journal in 1946.1 A follow-up study by Jack Morrison, President of the American Educational Theater Association, was published in the Journal in 1950.2 The report that follows, in two parts, while patterned after the Frayne and Morrison surveys, has been broadened in scope to include TV courses offered in U.S. institutions of higher education. The motion-picture and television instruction reports will be published in separate parts, because the two fields, though related, tend to remain separate entities in today's curricula."
"This paper describes a method of using 35/32 films for the production of 16mm prints which has been successfully used by the General Film Laboratories. The advantages of this particular procedure are that it permits use of 35mm professional equipment, is economical and generally produces good quality 16mm product. The technique of using 35/32mm films in the various processing steps is presented, including the requirement of special printing machines. Assembly, cleaning and developing are accomplished on normal 35mm equipment, and inspection is done on 35/32mm projectors designed for the purpose. The 35/32mm prints are slit for 16mm for final inspection and assembly. A high degree of quality control is necessary in using 35/32mm films, particularly in slitting, for which a new precision slitter is used. Increased use of the 35/32mm method is predicted."
"The problem of printing on 35/32mm films from 16mm negatives and the other combinations of these two film sizes in negative or positive position is discussed. Modifications of sprocket, aperture plate, roller, film feed and film take-up are described as those which permit single printing machines to accomplish any of the above operations."
"The problem of precision slitting of a strand of 35/32mm film into two 16mm films is discussed. The machines which were designed and constructed for this purpose are described in detail. These machines are fully automatic in operation and incorporate gauging devices, micrometer adjustments and safety features. Measurement of the slit films on an optical comparator and quality control procedures are described."
"This paper describes the application of sound developer to a soundtrack down the center of the film by means of an applicator wheel."
"Paraffin is commonly used as a film lubricant. It is applied to the film in solution, the solvent being either toxic, inflammable or expensive, and it has a tendency to cause streaks on the film. A new silicone of the nonfogging variety can be applied to the film in a water suspension just before the film enters the drying cabinet. This system eliminates the disadvantages of paraffin and also gives better lubrication. This paper describes in a qualitative way the development of the production procedures for this system."
"A portable instrument for the rapid, volumetric determination and recording of the less than 1- to over 100-micron particle content in atmospheres is described. Dust is collected by impingement on a moving ribbon of acetate film. Optical density is measured at the site of deposition on the ribbon and recorded. Constancy of air flow and positioning of the ribbon with respect to the orifice are controlled by the application of aerodynamical principles. Provision is made for the visual viewing of the deposit under the orifice. Ribbon speed is controllable to allow for wide ranges of dust concentration."
"Methods of using air pressure to improve film-to-film contact in continuous motion-picture printers are reviewed and compared to ordinary mechanical pressure methods. Advantages of internally directed air are cited and are supported by numerical test data to show unproved definition due to better contact and greatly extended negative life. Modifications to equip two production model printers (Bell & Howell Models J and D) with internal air jets are described."
"The mode of action of a bilateral variable-area light valve is reviewed. Light valves which the author has developed for recording direct-positive variable-area tracks, both standard width and double width push-pull, and the modulator in which they are used are described."
"A serious problem in 16mm sound-film distribution has been release-print inspection. Manual procedures generally have proved inadequate. A machine, the Inspect-O-Film, manufactured by the Harwald Co., is used in an automatic system of inspection which has a considerably higher degree of speed and accuracy than manual methods. The machine has been used in 16mm nontheatrical distribution for several years. Recently a model for television use has been introduced. This paper describes the principles of operation and discusses the application to inspection and editing in various fields."
"The Material Laboratory has developed a method for measuring the magnetic strength existing on 16mm magnetic soundtrack by utilizing a nonmagnetic loop for the determination of the absolute surface induction at 400 cycles/sec for “pegging” the relative surface-induction vs. frequency characteristic obtained by the “short” gap or other approved method. This paper indicates that this method was found to be practical for determining the surface induction for signals recorded on the currently manufactured 16mm magnetic-coated film, independent of differences in their characteristics and the depth of penetration of the recorded signal."
"Proper projection room design can add a great deal to the technical excellence of motion-picture projection without significantly increasing the cost of the theater. Legal requirements and recommended practices in Germany are described and illustrated in practical detail with the hope that useful comparison may be drawn by projection planners elsewhere."
"This paper compares various methods of obtaining a series of reflected light photographs of projectiles penetrating metallic plates. Illumination for high-speed photography has been provided by the argon flash, photoflash lamps, flash powder, carbon arcs, incandescent sources, electronic flash and other means. The electronic flash generally has advantages over other methods. However, the shape of the light pulse is far from uniform. A method of shaping the pulse of light is described."
"While missiles of various types have been known for centuries, the existence of a missile industry dates from the German V-1 and V-2 programs of the last war. The years following the end of that war saw this nation and others continue work based in part on German experience. Information gained in this manner, plus increased world tensions, resulted in greatly expanded research and development programs only a few years after the conclusion of World War II. Today, we find ourselves at the beginning of what might become one of the largest research, development and production programs ever attempted by man."
"Sixty-Two Papers were presented at the Third International Congress on High-Speed Photography, to report advances since the first and second international symposiums. New techniques, new developments and new applications were reported and described."
"The author has discovered that magnetic tracks are substantially transparent to infrared light. Utilizing the infrared sensitivity of the lead-sulfide photoconductive cell, it is shown that excellent reproduction of an optical track can be achieved even though it is completely covered by a magnetic stripe. By thus eliminating the need for half-width stripes, superior magnetic recording quality is obtained while avoiding most of the drawbacks of combined magnetic and optical tracks on composite prints. Potential advantages and applications of the discovery are discussed, and avenues of research for further improvement are pointed out."
"With the development of better theater sound and projection equipment, the professional theater sound-service engineer must keep pace with the technical and engineering developments by constantly improving and, when necessary, revising service procedures. The requirements of such procedures, methods and the equipment used and their overall results are described"
"A description is given of the modifications and new equipment necessary to convert a normal studio recording system to the more specialized requirements of the foreign-language dubbing methods. Construction details are supplied. Additionally, a new dubbing studio, now completed, is described."
"Because of a multiplicity of languages in Europe, stripe recording has many obvious applications; however, with existing equipment it would be very expensive and complicated to install key centers for high-quality recordings and the making of copies. The paper describes a self-contained recording studio designed to meet these needs, and which also might have many applications in TV for the post-synchronization of foreign-language versions."
"Standard punched-tape units have been recoded and modified to bring about automatic operation of film-printing equipment. Punched tape performs the functions of discrete scene-to-scene light changes, dissolve shutter operation and automatic stopping of equipment, while cards automatically adjust light level and printer characteristics for any particular job. Complex printer operations may be performed with great accuracy at high speeds by the use of these items."
"This report describes a sensitometer of the intensity-scale type which exposes a full 16mm frame for each density step. The light source is modulated by a series of apertures giving log E steps of 0.10. The unit is capable of exposing a single strip of 24 frames or a continuous roll of strips 200 ft in length."
"By means of concentrated developer replenishers and reduced replenishment rates, substantial savings have been effected in the processing of Eastman Color films through a reduction in the quantity of tank developers overflowed to the sewer. This paper describes the methods used in deriving the concentrated replenisher formulas and the reduced replenishment rates."
"This report describes the activities of the SMPTE Standards Committee with an analysis of product emphasis presently existing in Standardization"
"For many years one of the slogans of the American Standards Association has been “Standardization is dynamic, not static. It means not to stand still but to move forward together.” The paper examines the procedures of the ASA and shows how the Association provides for periodic review of American Standards so that they do not become “stale” or stand in the way of progress. Examples of such standards in the motion-picture field are given."
"Plans of the International Standardization Organization with reference to the selection of items suitable for standardization are presented. Also discussed are how ISO actions will affect American equipment manufacturers and film products, and what safeguards exist."
"For several years, the Canadian Broadcasting Corp. has been issuing within its organization a series known as Operations Instructions Bulletins. The Bulletin on Motion Picture Standards, issued in January 1957, is reprinted herewith in abstracted form, the omissions being indexes and lists which are already published by this Society and made available to members, usually at no charge.—Glenn E. Matthews, Editorial Vice-President; Axel G. Jensen, Engineering Vice-President."
"Although one of the rules in the writing of standards is that they should be so clear and definite that they are capable of only one interpretation, nevertheless there have been several cases in which our standards have been misinterpreted. In some cases the “fault” can be ascribed to the fact that the reader did not use perfect logic in interpreting them. The author believes that when standards are misinterpreted the fault is always with the writer of the standards. The remedy proposed is a discussion of purpose and use of the standards, and especially a discussion of tolerances and the reasons for setting them as they were set."
"Uniqueness of content sets one motion picture apart from any other. Yet to reach its audience at all, that same motion picture must be precisely standardized, a rigorous condition not imposed upon any other creative product. One of SMPTE's jobs is to determine “how standard.” How this is done through test films is explained in this paper."
"The 82nd Congress enacted Public Law 436, known as the “Defense Cataloging and Standardization Act,” which enjoins the Armed Forces to standardize to the maximum extent practicable. Public Law 1028 of the 84th Congress reaffirmed the intent of the previous Act. This paper discusses the steps being taken by the Department of Defense to carry out the provisions of the Act. Examples in the projection-equipment field are presented."
"Every few years something like magnetic recording or wide-screen photography comes along and there are several years of accelerated activity in the motion-picture field; 1956 was not such a year. Wide screen, stereophonic sound, and magnetic recording had all become routine. Several committee members reported that they were unable to find anything new worth reporting in their field, and some said that in the theater field research and capital improvement funds had been cut back: two newsreel companies stopped operation1; it was expected that 6000 movie houses would close2; for the first time all companies used joint film depots3; deals were initiated for studio mergers4; but Hollywood was busier than ever, and much of this was the result of television and other activity.5"
"The nationwide television networks utilize coaxial and radio-relay systems for interconnecting the radio stations. The Bell System provides over 75,000 miles of such intercity channels. Coaxial and radio-relay systems are described briefly and questions of network operation are discussed. Color television adds requirements to the design of the television channel which are explained, and the nationwide layout for black-and-white and for color programs is discussed."
"New 10mm and 11mm High Intensity Projector carbons have been developed for rotating positive-carbon-type motion-picture projection lamps. These carbons, designed for 95-110 and 110-120 amp, respectively, give substantial increases in light and efficiency, and operate with greater stability than former carbons of the same size and type. Performance data are presented."
"The partitioning of an existing sound stage on the Republic Studios lot is described as converted into three equally sized television stages. Various means are discussed for increasing the sound insulation between adjacent stages so that it is possible to construct sets in any one stage while sound recording takes place in adjacent stages."
"The Army and Air Force Motion Picture Service is a self-supporting agency of the Department of Defense. Its mission is the presentation of entertainment motion pictures for morale purposes. Recent innovations in the industry necessitated a major replacement program. Methods of testing, bases of design and the determining effect of military operating conditions on choice of equipment are briefly described."
"These papers constitute the first technical discussions of the Ampex video tape recording system, presented on October 11, 1956, at the Society's Convention at Los Angeles. Various problems encountered in the development of the recorder are discussed and the steps taken toward solutions are described in detail. These papers were first received on October 23, 1956, and in final form on March 11, 1957, from the authors at Ampex Corp., 934 Charter St., Redwood City, Calif."
"A high-speed CinemaScope four-track sound printing equipment that produces six prints at the same time has been developed by the Klangfilm Division of Siemens & Halske A.G., Karlsruhe, West Germany, to meet specifications of DeLuxe Laboratories, Inc., New York. The printer operates at a speed of 135 ft/min, and, serviced by two men, has a printing capacity of 30,000 ft/hr."
"A device has recently been developed for the production of short and long fades and dissolves. Designed for automatic operation in conjunction with continuous printers, this experimental model also registers light-change information."
"The design of this spray processor, four of which are now in full operation, using impingement drying, was based on both experimental data of the last two decades and operational experience gathered during the last two years. These are used for developing 16mm and 35mm black-and-white negatives and positives of all types at 80 F. The great versatility of the units, along with accurate sensitometry and chemistry, has increased both quality and volume in the laboratory."
"In developing equipment to meet today's requirements for animated film production, manufacturers have correlated the design of all components in order to achieve maximum accuracy, versatility and speed. The author describes the construction of such an integrated unit in detail and explains the operating advantages of the new mechanisms."
"A new color film, Eastman Color Intermediate Film, Types 5253 (35mm) and 7253 (16mm), which is designed for making intermediate color positives and duplicate color negatives from Eastman Color Negatives, is described. The convenience of a single color material for the two intermediate stages is noted, and the application of this film to the preparation of reduced-size duplicate negatives for contact release printing is discussed. — The need for sensitometric control in the printing and processing operations is stressed, since this all-color system does not have the contrast adjustment available when three silver-image separation positives are used. Processing and printing instructions are given, and a method for prevention of Newton's rings during contact-printing is described. The effect of inadequately exposed duplicate negatives on tone reproduction is pointed out and a method of determining optimum exposure is discussed. Several applications of this new film to motion-picture production are mentioned."
"The use of a coarse diffraction grating on a line screen in conjunction with a banded filter in the lens aperture presents a unique optical device with one definite “focal” position. The resultant vivid color bands at the film plane may be applied to color reproduction in photography or television."
"Practical TV studio-lighting procedures are outlined with emphasis on monochromatic TV. Solutions are suggested for some of the lighting problems arising from the technical limitations of the TV system, the key-light system of TV lighting is contrasted with the base-light system, and considerations in the selection and placement of instruments are presented. Practical methods of controlling light so that it may contribute to the aesthetic realization of the show are touched upon."
"A Proposed American Standard, PH22.89, Scene-Change Cueing for Printing 16mm Motion-Picture Film, is published here for a three-month period of trial and comment."
"This paper adumbrates the possibilities of 16mm film and describes the objectives of projector design. It is stated that 16mm films are, at present, capable of approximating 35mm picture and sound quality. The JAN-Spec projector is described and the possibility of developing a portable system capable of obtaining full quality performance from 16mm film is discussed."
"The development of new facilities for large-scale motion-picture presentation has stimulated a commensurate advance in the realism of the reproduced sound. This paper discusses advances in equipment performance and operating technique applicable to the 6- and 7-channel stereophonic systems associated with these presentations, and describes the recording and re-recording facilities developed in several of the major Hollywood studios."
"Recent advances in studio use of multichannel magnetic recording and reproducing have required the development of specially designed film transport mechanisms. This paper describes a basic design with sufficient versatility to meet all the varied requirements imposed by film widths ranging from 16mm to 70mm and by a wide range of film speeds. A choice of magnetic heads and transmission facilities provides for single or multitrack operation with up to 7 channels. Versions for optical or magnetic opération and magnetic printing are also included."
"A technique, recently described1 for recovery of Eastman Color developers, has been modified. In the new method, developer is passed through the ion-exchange column only as long as sodium bromide is completely removed. The effluent solution is reconstituted to replenisher status by the addition of untreated overflow developer, developing agent and sodium sulfite. The advantages of this technique are: increased life of the resin, elimination of several chemical analyses and reduction in operating time by half."
"Project SMART, Supersonic Military Air Research Track, is a 12,000-ft supersonic sled track designed and built for the Air Force. The track is located and operated to simulate pilot escape systems of high-speed aircraft. Photographic instrumentation of this site is described."
"Field conditions have shown that mobile TV units of the Broadcasters and the Telephone Co. present a low-frequency noise (hum) problem because of the difficult grounding conditions which prevail. The problem is increased by a requirement for large amounts of a-c power by the Broadcaster. Remedial measures have been worked out in cooperation with the Broadcasters and the Bell System. The report is typical of the work which is being carried on by the Video Transmission Engineering Advisory Committee (VITEAC) and its subcommittee known as the Network Transmission Committee (NTC). This is a joint committee representing Network Broadcasters and the Bell System."
"Two new 16mm black-and-white reversal films (Eastman Plus-X Reversal Film, Type 7276; Eastman Tri-X Reversal Film, Type 7278) have been introduced to satisfy the present-day requirements for extended speed range, improved picture quality, and ease of processing in rapidly working baths at normal and elevated temperatures. A study has been made of the reversal process with reference to the needs of these films when handled on various types of continuous and batch equipment of practical interest. Recommendations are made for processing-bath composition and replenishing practice for obtaining highest quality and consistent results."
"Anscochrome Professional Film, Type 242, is a soft gradation reversible camera film for professional use. Duplicate prints from this new film on Type 238 Duplicating Stock can be made which approach original quality. The film is balanced for 3200 K and has an Exposure Index of 10. It is processed in the laboratories of the manufacturer."
"A practical way of achieving a new high level of splicing strength and performance on motion-picture film is described. The apparatus depends on dielectric heating for its operation. The method does not use cement, but it provides durable and highly reliable splices needing only a very small overlap area. The method should be adaptable to many different splicers."
"The cleaner described in this paper consists of four velvet-covered wheels mounted in opposed positions between which the negative passes. The first pair of wheels is driven at 1400 rpm in a direction opposite to that in which the negative travels. The second pair moves in the same direction as the film, and is not powered. The wheels are enclosed in a chamber that has a vacuum cleaner attached. This cleaning method virtually eliminates subsequent drum cleaning after the initial cleaning."
"This paper describes an automatic machine in which motion-picture film rolls are rewound and cleaned in one operation at 360 ft/min. A new type of combination air and vacuum sqeegee permits cleaning of 3000-ft rolls at this speed. Use of the machine in production permits successive printing of negatives without other periodic wet-cleaning techniques."
"This report describes a method of taking successive photographs of high-speed transient events by means of an argon-explosive system. The system comprises an explosive-train assembly, a Fresnel lens, and a number of cameras. The photographic results of a series of plate-perforation tests using 20-mm rounds are presented."
"Video tape recording has been used for television broadcasting purposes since the Fall of 1956 primarily for time-zone delay (i.e., the delay of program material for presentation at the same clock time in each of several time zones). In this paper the Columbia Broadcasting System's experiences to date with this new medium are described and a typical equipment installation shown. In addition, some of the picture idiosyncrasies that can be produced by improper adjustment of the video tape recording equipment are illustrated. Photomicrographs showing video frequency modulation of magnetic tracks are presented together with examples of magnetic surface irregularities that can cause signal dropouts. The economics of video tape recording is touched upon and some of the design improvements that have been effected since the equipment was first put into service are described."
"The audio-visual market has grown to the extent that over $1,500,000,000 has been spent for nontheatrical motion pictures and other audio-visual production, release prints, and equipment since World War II. The annual rate now exceeds $236,000,000. The rapid growth of this little-known facet of the motion-picture industry is of particular significance in view of the startling future growth predicted for the film as an informational medium."
"This paper introduces the subject with a historical treatment that relates the requirements for low-cost projectable materials to the evolution of the “overhead projector.” It describes engineering efforts and design which have given this medium certain advantages of versatility. It further projects engineering goals for overcoming existing limitations. Low-cost projectable types are exemplified with reference to styles of presentation and methods of production."
"There are four main areas of importance to the producer of slide-projection materials who must maintain a minimum budget. These are: mounting, lettering, coloring and photography. This paper presents a brief discussion of each of these four areas and offers suggestions on acquiring and using available materials."
"This paper describes a method of producing charts and graphs on film. The process depicts progressive growth of such graphs and the possibility of their use for superimposition on live-action scenes."
"This paper describes an experiment, conducted in the Middle East by Unesco in close cooperation with UNRWA, in low-budget film making for educational purposes. This report is designed to be of interest to all those concerned with the use of films in fundamental education."
"This paper deals with a small laboratory's solution of problems of duplication and processing in an essentially low-volume area of the United States. Specifically, the paper describes one method of making black-and-white reversal release prints of high quality, and another method of reversal duplication utilizing low-cost, positive-type emulsions. The paper also discusses 16mm negative developing and comparative results achieved through the use of Hoffman PR-400 developer."
"An electronic xenon-flashlamp sensitometer is described for use in black-and-white or color process control. It is an intensity-scale instrument with three different exposure durations. The longest exposure, 1/100 sec, is useful for normal picture-taking control. The two other durations of 1/1000 and 1/10,000 sec allow the laboratory technicians to study film and development characteristics falling in the range of high-speed photography. Color of the light approximates daylight quality without the use of filters and the quantity of light is remarkably constant."
"Especially adaptable to instrumentation needs, for long or short runs of consistent quality, the transportable Type T246 Mark 3 Automatic Tri-Film Processor offers automatic programming, ready adaption to various processing techniques, automatic and leaderless loop formation, combined with a small size. The machine may be adjusted simply, in a few minutes, to process and dry four tracks of 16mm, two of 35mm or one of 70mm film at speeds up to 6 ft/min."
"This paper describes a new design in shoulder-mounted instrumentation cameras constructed by the Naval Ordnance Laboratory for tracking high-speed, air-laid ordnance. It discusses features required in the tracking problem and compares this camera with earlier models in its ability to provide the facilities required by field evaluation groups."
"The Following proposed amendments to the Society's Bylaws were approved by the Board of Governors on April 28, 1957, with the exception of the revision of Sec. 6 of Bylaw V which was approved at a meeting of the Board held July 12, 1957. These amendments are now ready for consideration by the voting members of the Society."
"It is the purpose of this Guide to provide a general form for the preparation of systems Test Procedures, and to suggest the points to be considered by the Technical Committees in the preparation of specific instructions for the thermal evaluation of insulation systems for equipment."
"The paper discussed the test code for transistors, its semiconductor definitions and letter symbols."
"Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record."
"Presents the table of contents from this conference."
"The great strength and the great weakness of the Digest are exemplified by a sentence in the instructions that each author was sent in December, 1957. “The scope, style, and thoroughness are largely left to the discretion of the individual author.” This policy of autonomy, which is quite deliberate, results in a shift in emphasis as continuing authors change their interests and their outlooks, and as new authors take up the baton from their retiring predecessors. The Digest is a living entity; its form is continuously changing and its original spirit is, within that form, very much alive. Perhaps the editor's main job is to ensure this continuity of spirit from one year to the next, though, by his selection of authors and chapter titles, he does have some control of the form of the Digest during his year of office."
"As in 1956, the major emphasis has been on the acquisition of additional knowledge concerning the basic structure and properties of materials. No important breakthroughs have been reported, but a better understanding has been obtained of many solid-state phenomena and new and improved insulating materials have been developed. In the application area, the demand for insulation for use at higher temperatures continued unabated."
"A successor to Advanced Electrical Measurements by Smythe and Michels has been published. The new book, Electrical Measurements and Their Applications by Michels (1), is primarily a text book for college students, but it is also valuable as a basic reference book. Dielectric measurements are not considered in detail, but many of the basic problems encountered in dielectric measurements are discussed. Buckingham and Price (2) also have published an excellent text book, Principles of Electrical Measurements, for advanced students which is valuable as a reference book for low-frequency and radio-frequency measurements. An outstanding book, Microwave Measurements, has been written by Ginzton (3). Microwave measurements are treated very thoroughly and clearly and the overall organization is excellent. Some of the chapter subjects are: microwave power sources, power measurements, impedance measurements, frequency and wavelength measurements, resonant-cavity characteristics, and attenuation measurements. This is an important reference book and no doubt will be of interest to everyone engaged in high-frequency research and development."
"The tables of dielectric constants and dipole moments in this compilation are based upon references to the original literature, reported in Chemical Abstracts and Current Chemical Papers during the year 1957. References included in the latter publication only, were directly abstracted from the original papers, and a large number of the references abstracted in Chemical Abstracts were referred to in the original papers when the abstract was deemed incomplete for the purposes of this compilation."
"The three types of investigation into molecular and ionic interactions which received most attention in 1957 were as follows: (a) studies on the effect of parameters such as pressure, light, magnetic fields and temperature upon the dielectric properties of materials, (b) the study of dilute solutions for elucidating the structures of extremely complex compounds, (c) applications of the techniques of solid-state physics to establish the nature of dipolar phenomena."
"In this section books and reports of meetings are listed without comment. Further reference is made to most of them in the appropriate sections below."
"Persson (1) derives the limitations of the conventional microwave cavity method of measuring electron density. Microscopic electric polarization can be eliminated and overlapping modes suppressed by designing the cavity so that the probing microwave field and the plasma have rotational symmetry around the same axis, thereby extending the range of electron density measurement. Following this theoretical development, Buchsbaum and Brown (2) present a method whereby much higher electron densities can be measured. The method, based on eliminating the effect of a-c space charge on the probing microwave field, is accomplished by ensuring that the electric field is everywhere perpendicular to the electron density gradients."
"The year 1957 saw continued heavy publications activity in the field of piezoelectricity in ferroelectric materials; hardly anything new has appeared on non-ferroelectric piezoelectric crystals. The present chapter aims to cover the background of chemical and physical work on piezoelectrically important ferroelectrics, with the exclusion of domain phenomena, which should be covered in the chapter on ferroelectricity."
"The majority of investigators reporting in 1957 concerned themselves with barium titanate either as single crystals or in ceramics. However, the old stand-by Rochelle salt and some of the more recent materials such as guanidine aluminum sulphate hexahydrate received some attention. The present survey was not intended to include literature which dealt primarily with piezoelectric behavior, but due to the close relationship between ferroelectric and piezoelectric phenomena, the inclusion of considerable literature relating to the latter was inevitable."
"Activity in all phases of the field of magnetism continues to be intense in many centers about the world. This is reflected not only by the large bibliography for 1957, but also by the continued scheduling of international conferences on this subject. Where the collective papers given at these conferences are readily available, there has been no attempt to cover exhaustively the material in this Digest."
"This chapter endeavors to review the important publications on electrical insulation that have particular reference to Rubber and Plastics. A vast amount of material is printed on this subject each year, making it necessary to be somewhat selective to avoid repetition, and references to purely commercial announcements. The authors believe this review is representative of the information that has become available during the year, and they hope it is relatively complete."
"This chapter presents a review of the 1957 literature on unsupported films and extends beyond the limited scope of the title to include products of organic and inorganic fibers in the form of sheet and yarn. It includes a coverage of the engineering applications of these materials and their stability under heat and ionizing radiation."
"Excepting the last four references to synthetic insulating liquids, the references are to mineral insulating oils. The literature of synthetic insulating liquids shows slow growth."
"A survey of the literature shows that there is considerable interest in blends using magnesium compounds such as magnesium titanate, magnesium zirconate, and magnesium stannate with barium titanate."
"Most work concerning insulation for rotating electrical machinery during 1957 has been attributed to the various testing methods used for evaluating the quality of the insulation. Several surveys have appeared comparing the different test methods. Wichmann describes a method of separating the insulation current from the superposed polarization current appearing in d-c testing} and Fabre describes the polarization phenomena and presents curves of the variation of polarization current with time} between 10 and 105 sec."
"This guide presents general recommendations for determining, by approximate methods from nameplate data and by more exact methods from design data, the short-circuit characteristics of direct-current motors and generators. Both methods are applicable to general purpose, general industrial mill motors, and special purpose direct-current machines. This includes constant-speed and adjustable-speed motors and machines with and without compound windings, and with and without compensating windings."
"This Guide covers general recommendations for the operation, loading, and maintenance of turbine-driven synchronous generators of the types specified in Section 4, having cylindrical rotors and conventional cooling systems (in distinction from conductor-cooled systems). It does not apply to generators having salient-pole rotors."
"The extremes of aircraft environment and rigorous reliability requirements, make special consideration of aircraft insulation testing procedure desirable. Operating temperatures, in some classes of equipment now above 260C (SOOF), are moving upward. Ambient low temperatures below -6SC (-8SF) are currently specified.Vibration conditions producing accelerations in excess of 60 G's exist. Environmental conditions which may deteriorate electrical insulation are present through a range and to a degree uncommon in the environment of non-aircraft electric equipment. These conditions have created problems which commercial insulation test procedures do not always cover adequately."
"This standard applies to all types of electrically controlled indoor and outdoor power circuit breakers, including circuit breakers in switchgear cubicles and in metal-clad switchgear, having an interrupting rating of 50 megavolt-amperes (mva) or higher and a voltage rating above 1500 volts. This standard applies for any source of circuit breaker operating energy, such as solenoid, motor, spring, compressed gas, etc, for any type of operating mechanism and for both a-c and d-c control power."
"Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record."
"The following topics are dealt with: liquid hexane; internal discharges; air gaps; corona spaces; insulation aging; high speed missiles; high speed aircraft; electrical breakdown; nontracking organic materials; SF6 insulation; polyethylene treeing; gamma radiation; dielectric properties; dielectric measurements; and high-resistivity refractory solids."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"The accurate measurement of electric breakdown strength in the liquid phase has become possible through the use of short pulse techniques, (1,2,3) and such methods of measurement are by now widely used. On the other hand, the measurements of conduction currents in insulating liquids have continued to rely upon d.c.,(2,4) presumably because of the experimental difficulties inherent in making accurate measurements of small currents under short pulse conditions."
"When gas voids in solid dielectrics break down under the application of an electric field, the current flow (as observed in the external circuit) is discontinuous, usually consisting of very short (ca. 10-7 sec) pulses. This general behavior is not unexpected, since the charge produced by breakdown of the gas cannot flow through the solid insulation, and therefore reduces the potential across the void, causing extinction of the discharge. If circuit time constants can be reduced below the times taken for charge movements in the gap, the current flow as a function of time should provide information on the nature of the charge carriers and on the breakdown mechanisms operative."
"A high voltage Schering bridge with broad band differential amplifier and cathode ray oscillograph have been used to study the deterioration of Mylar and polyethylene in voids of known dimensions, and in natural voids in polyethylene."
"This paper describes four methods of studying corona spaces in high voltage cables, principally polyethylene cables. These involve: A. The manometric test for corona around the conductor B. Silver mapping on the conductor C. Capacitance increase when the conductor spaces are filled with water D. Change in corona level produced by gas substitution Test A depends on the pressure decrease caused by absorption of oxygen activated by corona. Figure 1 shows the set-up for a balanced test which eliminates troublesome fluctuations due to diffusion or changes in ambient temperature and pressure. Figure 2 shows single sample tests on a 46 KV cable with no strand shielding. Absorption is shown by the jumps during stress periods. In an improved KV cable corona absorption was slight even at 120 KV AC. After bending (11.5 × 0.D.) corona onset was between 75 and 90 KV. In principal there appears to be no voltage limit to the test."
"The rates of hydrolysis, oxidation and thermal degradation were studied as functions of temperature, relative humidity and film thickness. The rate of hydrolysis was found to be very much faster than the rates of the other two reactions. A relation between extent of chemical degradation and physical degradation has been established and the effect of both on electrical properties is shown. Using these data one may estimate the time required for the polymer to reach a given degree of degradation at any chosen temperature and relative humidity."
"Oxidation and evaporation are two of the mechanisms by which insulation deterioration have been described. The present tests were made with the idea of showing their relative effects and to study the possibility of acceleration of these effects to give more rapid evaluation of various materials. The materials investigated are black varnished cloth, phenolic impregnated Kraft paper and silicone rubber on glass cloth. These are aged in some or all of the mediums of oxygen, nitrogen, air and vacuum. These data are compared with previous data on these and similar materials aged in air and nitrogen."
"The Air Force program on high speed, long range aircraft and missiles is seriously hampered by the unavailability of special-purpose materials. In no area of application is the shortage felt more keenly than in the area of electrical and electronic materials."
"Hickam(1) has shown that at extremely low pressures (10-4-10-5 mm) the electron capture curve of SF6 is dependent on the temperature at which the experiment is conducted. Experiments were performed to see if there was a temperature effect on the breakdown of SF6. In non-uniform fields, the positive direct voltage for breakdown in SF6 as a function of pressure goes through a maximum. The reason for this maximum has previously been shown to be due to the positive corona which precedes breakdown(2). Changing the gas temperature from 25°C to 125°C shifts the maximum of the breakdown curve to higher pressures as might be expected from the pressure change on increasing the temperature. However, when the higher temperature data are plotted as a function of density the peak occurs at the same density as it does in the lower temperature case but the breakdown values are increased in the region where corona precedes breakdown. Thus, the breakdown voltage is not only a function of density but also of temperature."
"A systematic investigation of the electric strength of nitrogen gas has been made under conditions where the gas density was continuously increased by pressure change from the ambient value to a density approaching that of the liquid state. Such a study is of interest for several reasons: (1) the increased sparking potential makes the use of pressurized gases very attractive for the insulation of electrical equipment; (2) the study of breakdown in this region of intermediate density yields important information which will elucidate the mechanism of breakdown in condensed phases of matter(1) and (3) virtually no measurements at elevated pressures have been made heretofore in the region of very small electrode spacing used by us (1-25 mils). The use of such spacings makes it possible to generate very high field strengths with relatively low voltage."
"Two years ago a paper was presented at this Conference describing the development of organic insulations which will not form carbonized tracks upon exposure to surface electrical arcs. The present paper discusses in detail the proposed internal oxidation mechanism and shows that hydrated alumina compounded with organic materials in specific quantities, is wholly effective in preventing carbonization under all test conditions."
"This paper deals with latent damage that consists of “trees” formed by partial breakdown of defective or locally overstressed regions. This cannot be observed in opaque insulation like rubber, but the discovery of trees in polyethylene stimulated interest in this phase of study. Figure 1 shows trees in various stages in contaminated PE after 21 months at 68 volts per mil AC. They start from the conductor, from the outer surface, and from particles and fibres within the PE."
"In radiation fields where reliability is essential, silicone insulation systems should be considered for electrical and electronic equipment. This conclusion is based upon a study of the dielectric properties of silicones during and after irradiation. The radiation source used in this study was a multikilocurie Cobalt 60 source which emitted gamma rays of approximately 1.25 Mev energy. Samples exposed to this radiation were in air at 25C. The duty cycle for this source was about 20 hours \"on\" and 4 hours \"off\" per day."
"Previously reported measurements on the high dielectric constant polymer, cyanoethylcellulose, (C. W. Lewis and D. H. Hogle, J. Polymer Science 21, 411 (1956).) have been extended to a wide temperature range with material of three different degrees of substitution. Dielectric data from -76°C to 150°C over a frequency range from 25 cycles to 45 megacycles has been obtained from mono-(6.5% N), di-((10.4%) N), and “tri”-(12.6% N) cyanoethylated cellulose. The dielectric constant and dissipation factor variation with frequency is illustrated in Figures 1 and 2 for two temperatures. Dissipation factor data for cellulose (cellophane), by Stoops, (J. Am. Chem. Soc. 56, 1480 (1934).) as plotted in Figure 2 illustrates a relaxation time for the OH dipole in cellulose of the same order of magnitude as for the cyanodipole in the cyanoethylated compound."
"A simplified method and a new slotted line have been developed for the measurement of the dielectric constant and loss of solid insulating materials in the 200 to 5000-Mc frequency range. The basic method is a modification of that previously described by Roberts and von Hippel(1) and Dakin and Works(2)."
"The conduction of electricity in solid dielectrics is an exceedingly complicated phenomenon, and is usually influenced by the chemical, structural, and physical nature of the specimen. Results of experiments on various substances are often chaotic; the considerable lack of correspondence between specimens of the same kind is attributed generally to differences in chemical composition etc. and to differences in environmental conditions. However, it should be noted that agreement is possible only if the specific (ohmic) conductivity is measured."
"Some of the more interesting effects of non-uniform electric fields are described in this report. Experimental and theoretical studies show the effects to be rather striking for particles larger than molecular size. The results show that the effect can be used to produce a fairly efficient pumping action of non-conducting liquids, to cause continuous and easily measureable separations in coarse suspensions, to cause selective precipitation, and to produce mixing."
