"This report is devoted to advances in theory, experiment, and application of microwave sources, amplifiers, circuits and circuit elements, transmission lines, and detectors. The radiation, propagation, and reception of microwaves are mentioned only indirectly. An attempt is made to provide coverage of foreign as well as domestic advances."
"A new form of microwave duplexer, capable of handling twice as much power as an equivalent balanced duplexer is described. It consists of a microwave bridge circuit and a power-sensitive half-wavelength phase shifter. A simple gas-discharge tube is used in the phase shifter, which changes the length in one arm of the bridge circuit by a half-wavelength for high-power and low-power microwave pulses, respectively. The performance of one form of phase-shift duplexer has been measured over a frequency range from 8500 mc to 10,000 mc. The vswr is less than 1:2 and the receiver isolation is greater than 30 db over most of the waveband. This is comparable to the performance of a balanced duplexer using the same components. The power handling capacity of the phase-shift duplexer is intrinsically twice as great as that of the balanced duplexer. For example, at a wavelength of 3 cm the phase-shift duplexer will operate unpressurized at a peak power level of 200 kw with a 2:1 safety factor on breakdown, whereas performance of a balanced duplexer at this power level is marginal."
"This paper presents an approximate analytical solution to the problem of radiation from a ferrite-filled rectangular waveguide. The field distribution at the mouth of the guide is assumed to be unaffected by the termination of the guide. The vector Huygens' principle is applied to find the far-zone radiation field from the determined aperture field. The solution to the problem is found in this manner for the cases of longitudinal and transverse magnetization of the ferrite. The transverse magnetization case is supplemented with a discussion of a specfic numerical example which includes plots of the aperture field distribution and the phase angle as well as plots of the far-zone radiation field. The experimentally known phenomenon of the effect of the applied magnetic field upon the shift of the main lobe is demonstrated and verified analytically."
"This paper describes an experimental investigation of surface wave launching efficiency. Wires, rings, and slots are considered as exciters of the HE/sub 11/ mode on a dielectric rod image line. A formula is derived which relates the efficiency of a launcher to its impedance as a scatterer on the surface waveguide. Efficiency is obtained by using this formula and also by applying Deschamps' method for determtimg the scattering matrix coefficients of a port junction. Graphs are presented which illustrate the variation of efficiency with the dimensions of the launchers and with the parameter lambda/sub g//lambda, the ratio of the guide wavelength to the free space wavelength."
"This paper gives the results of an investigation of the use of a microwave crystal as an RF switching element. Variation of a dc bias applied to the crystal will change its impedance, thereby providing an electronic control of microwave power. Empirical data are correlated with the physical structure of the crystal and its equivalent circuit to establish the frequency and power limitations of the switch. A comparison is also made of the switching properties of germanium and silicon crystals. Curves are given for predicting the switching capacity of any diode once its impedance has been normalized with respect to the characteristic impedance of the waveguide. Some methods are suggested for improving the bandwidth and power capacity of the crystal switch."
"Some further studies on the dielectric image line are presented. Following a verification of field purity for the conventional image system, the effects of dielectric constant and dielectric geometry on loss, dispersion, and field extent are examined. Results are also discussed for an asymmetric line, i.e., the case of dielectric binding medium partially submerged in an image surface."
"A normally open (attenuating) switch using ferrites has been built to operate in the 70-kmc region. It can be operated in 0.5 µsec and can be used with high duty cycles. The attenuation is about one db in the closed position and about 60 db in the open position. Construction and performance of the switch are discussed."
"A theoretical analysis of the resistance-sheet isolator is carried out, and numerical solutions are obtained for the forward and reverse propagation constants of the distorted dominant mode in a rectangular waveguide containing a transversely magnetized thick ferrite slab displaced slightly from the side wall. The microwave electric field patterns within the waveguide are plotted for several values of the physical design parameters of the isolator for which experimental performance data have been reported. Field patterns are used to describe the principles of the isolator and to select the optimum values of slab thickness, internal dc magnetic field, ferrite magnetization, and location of the slab in the waveguide for the idealized isolator. Evidence is presented to show that it is necessary to use a comparatively thick ferrite slab located in a very small usable range of distances from the side wall. The appropriate value of internal dc magnetic field is simply related to the magnetization of the ferrite and to the frequency. It has not been necessary to take into account the perturbing effects of the resistance card or matching techniques in order to explain the basic design principles."
"Reversal of the dc magnetic field in gyrotropic media transposes the tensor permeability and permittivity. It is shown that this also transposes the impedance, admittance, and scattering matrices any device. It follows from this that the usual reciprocity statements for isotropic media apply to gyrotropic media if one reverses the dc magnetic field whenever an interchange of source and is made."
"The design of a series of broad-band Tchebycheff-type stepped waveguide transformers from various sizes of standard rectangular waveguides to a double ridged waveguide covering the frequency range of 4750 to 11,000 mc is described. Four separate transformers employing RG-67/U (WR-90), RG-68/U (WR-112), RG-106/U (WR-137), and WR-159 to Airtron ARA-133 double-ridged waveguide have been designed using this technique and cast in aluminum. The complete frequency range is covered by several pairs depending on which sizes of mating rectangular waveguides are desired. The RG-106/U design covers a frequency range of 53 per cent with a maximum VSWR of 1.08, while the other three designs each cover a slightly smaller frequency band with a VSWR not exceeding 1.05. Along with the experimental results obtained, an outline of the design method is given which can be used to design similar transformers between any compatible rectangular and double ridged waveguides."
"Experimental results are given for a transformer from an unbalanced 50-ohm coaxial line to a balanced pair of 50-ohm coaxial lines. The design is one proposed by Marchand. The balance, standing wave ratio, and insertion loss are nearly constant over a 13 to 1 frequency range from 650 mc to 8500 mc. The standing wave ratio is less than 2.1 to one and the insertion loss is about 0.5 db over this band of frequencies."
"The Manley-Rowe relations, originally derived for nonlinear lumped circuit elements, are generalized to include the power flow in the fields produced in the presence of lossless, nonlinear media. The generalization is carried out first for nonlinear anisotropic media with single-valued relations between the instantaneous /bar E/ and /bar P/, and /bar H/ and /bar M/. The proof is extended to include gyromagnetic media under small-signal excitation at the signal frequency (but large excitation at the pump frequency). The relations are applied to show under what conditions power gain can be achieved with a three-frequency and a four-frequency excitation of a ferrite. The form of the coupling coefficients in the electromagnetic operation of a ferrite amplifier is shown to be a consequence of the generalized Manley-Rowe relations."
"A theory is derived which enables a direct measurement of the optimum RF impedance for minimum noise figure. This is achieved by an extension of Pound's method for loss measurements. Also, an analysis is made of the relation between minimum noise figure and maximum gain of the mixer represented as a two-port network. The procedure consists of first matching the RF signal input terminals with short-circuited IF terminals. Next open-circuited IF terminal conditions are obtained by a circuit used by Pound. Then a reference plane is determined coinciding by preference with the plane of a maximum in the standing wave pattern of VSWR = r. A discontinuity is finally introduced that would have a VSWR of p = /spl radic/r and have its maximum or minimum at the plane of reference."
"Recent developments in high-power tubes for the 3-cm wavelength region have created a need for waveguide output windows which are capable of transmitting peak power in excess of 1 megw and average power in the neighborhood of 1 kw, and which have frequency bandwidths of about 15 per cent. This paper describes a structure which is designed to meet these electrical requirements, and which also has desirable physical and fabricational properties. A dielectric plug, which forms the vacuum seal, is used as one element of a three-element filter. The design procedure and experimental results are discussed."
"Riblet presented the following theorem which is concerned with the synthesis of a quarter-wave impedance transformer."
"The rectangular waveguide resonance isolator operating at frequencies from 3000 to 24,000 mc is a simple and compact device since the dc magnetic field requirements are relatively low. In the 5-mm range, however, resonance isolators are not practical if conventional ferrites are used because very high magnetic fields of about 20,000 oersteds are required to obtain resonance at these high frequencies. By using highly oriented Ferroxdure, resonance isolators in the millimeter range become feasible because of the high internal anisotropy field of 17,000 oersteds exhibited by this material. Thus, with Ferroxdure a magnetic fieId of a few thousand oersteds is sufficient for resonance in the 5-mm region."
"A recent study of Bethe's small-hole coupling theory has led to an extension of his work to include the case where the coupling aperture is filled with an anisotropic ferrite. This new theory is applicable to any situation where Bethe's coupling theory is useful and is hindered chiefly by inadequate expressions for the magnetic dipole moments of the ferrite."
"A method is described for producing an amplitude modulated wave at an intermediate frequency from the mixing of two cw signals in a coaxial or waveguide system. The method is adaptable to any frequency range in which crystal mixers are used. At least 82 per cent modulation is produced by this method, and the envelope is a square wave. The repetition rate is 0 to 20 kc with presently available commercial components."
"A recent article by Reggia and Spencer describes a reciprocal ferrite phase shifter for rectangular waveguide, This phase shifter consists of a pencil of ferrite suspended along the central axis of the waveguide by means of a dielectric. The phase is controlled by an applied longitudinal magnetic field. This geometry is shown in Fig. 1. Large amounts of phase shift are produced by this geometry with low insertion loss, and application to antenna beam scanning appears likely, as suggested by Reggia and Spencer."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Clarence Lester Hogan was born on February 8, 1920, in Great Falls, Mont. He received the B.S. degree in chemical engineering from Montana State College in 1942. While an undergraduate he was elected to Phi Kappa Phi and Tau Beta Pi and received two awards: the American Chemical Society Award, based on an election by the faculty and student body, and given to a junior student showing great promise for professional development, and the Montana Society of Engineers Gold Medal, given to the most outstanding senior in the College of Engineering. Among his extra curricular activities were the offices of editor-in-chief of the college publication, The Maztana Engineer, and vice-president of Kappa Sigma."
"In 1946, J. H. E. Griffiths published in Nature the first account of an experimental observation of the phenomenon of ferromagnetic resonance. Naturally enough this paper elicited little interest from electrical engineers, nor did the theoretical work of C. Kittel and D. Polder published during the next three years which gave a quantitative explanation of Griffith's experiment. Now, however, approximately eight years after Polder's rather complete theoretical paper on ferromagnetic resonance this issue of an engineering journal is devoted exclusively to the practical ramifications of this first experimental observation. Many of the devices referred to in this issue are beyond the development stage and are already in widespread use in microwave systems, Although the delay between research and development and between development and production usually seems interminably long to those most actively associated with the development of engineering devices, it appears, in retrospect at least, that in this case the progress has been almost astounding. In fact, it is illuminating to go back to the beginning of the electronic era and look at the basic experiments which led to the development of the vacuum tube in order to see how our technological timetable has been greatly compressed during the last fifty years."
"With the tremendous advances being made in the microwave ferrite field and solid-state microwave devices, and with the success of the Harvard Symposium in April, 1956, it was felt that further symposia were desired on the subject especially at the radio engineers' level. Hence, it was proposed that the Long Island, New York, and Northern New Jersey Chapters of the PGMTT hold a jointly sponsored meeting on the subject during the 1956-1957 season."
"The recent developments in the field of ferrite devices are reviewed. Emphasis is placed on the extension of nonreciprocal devices to lower microwave frequencies. and high powers. The design considerations and achievements of broad banding also are covered. Fundamental principles leading to the applications of non-linear properties of ferrites are described briefly. Preliminary experimental accomplishments in the construction of frequency doublers, mixers, and ferromagnetic resonance amplifiers are summarized. The possible role of the new ferromagnetic garnet material is indicated. Although no significant new semiconductor devices have been developed at microwave frequencies, possibilities are considered for doing this with use of cyclotron resonance and spin resonance phenomena and their related properties in semiconductors."
"The nonreciprocal propagation of electromagnetic waves in ionized gaseous media is discussed, and experimental observations are reported in this paper. The classical Faraday experiment in the optics of anisotropic media has suggested an analogous phenomenon at microwave frequencies. The anisotropic behavior of the free electron gas which is immersed in a magnetic field and subjected to an incident electromagnetic wave is determined. Guided microwave experiments were performed which confirm the theoretical predictions of nonreciprocal wave propagation in such ionized gases."
"This article gives an introduction to amplification by solid-state maser techniques. Emphasis is placed on the three-level solid-state maser. The relevant physical properties of paramagnetic salts are discussed. The basis of the three-level excitation method is reviewed. Some design considerations are given. The design and performance characteristics of a particular device are mentioned."
"A small aperture radiating circularly polarized energy is loaded with a spherical ferrite to produce an electronic beam directing system. The ferrite is immersed in a static magnetic field which is in general at an oblique angle with the unreflected direction of radiation. It is shown that radiation is principally in the direction of the magnetic field when the polarization is in the negative sense. From symmetry this allows beam deflection with two degrees of freedom. To consider an application for such a device, it is proposed that this deflection system be used in conical scan. A mechanization is shown, which solves the problem in principle, but it is not competitive with present mechanical scanners from the point of view of side lobes, etc."
"A solution is obtained for the electric field at the air-ferrite interface (z=0) in a rectangular waveguide filled with ferrite in the semi-infinite half (z>0) and magnetized in the direction of the electric field. The field is expressed in terms of a Neumann series obtained by iteration of a singular integral equation which satisfies the boundary conditions at the interface. The equivalent circuit for the junction is also presented."
"Possible modes of operation of two-level solid state masers utilizing the techniques of population inversion used in nuclear magnetic resonance are described. Methods of continuous operation of two-level masers and their usefulness as microwave generators are discussed."
"When multiple filter groups are interconnected for operation out of a single source, interaction effects between filters can occur. Frequently, unless special precautions are taken, the filters may interact to such an extent that severe deterioration in performance may result. Introduction of the gyrator by Tellegen and the subsequent microwave realization of the circulator by Hogan, Rowen, and others provide new possibilities for design of channel-branching circuits and frequency-spectrum partition arrays. The nature of the frequency separation problem is reviewed, and the application of the ferrite circulator to effect channel branching is considered in detail. Several specific multichannel systems comprising various circulator filter and one-way line filter arrays are presented and their relative merits examined. A 4-port (3-channel) experimental prototype separator system consisting of a Faraday rotation type of circulator and maximally flat band-pass waveguide filters is described. A quantitative theory of operation of the prototype is developed. Experimental data and performance curves are given. These data show close agreement with results predicted by the theory."
"CircuIarly polarized cavities have made possible a group of compact, high-Q, microwave waveguide filters having useful directional properties. When these cavity filters are ferrite loaded, frequency sensitive circulators result and magnetic tuning becomes possible. This paper presents several new three- and four-port ferrite-loaded filters, some with 3-db waveguide couplers, which can be used as tunable band-pass filters, tunable band-rejection filters, or as passive, selective duplexers. As duplexers, they can be operated at a fixed frequency or can be magnetically tuned over a one to five per cent frequency range at X band depending upon the allowable loss. Experimental loss, bandwidth, isolation, and tuning data are presented. Temperature stability and power handling capacity are also discussed."
"The ring circuit investigated consists of a resonant ring guide coupled to a main guide. The properties can be described by the equations for the waves in the ring guide resulting from excitation in the main guide. The influence of nonreciprocity on the properties is investigated under conditions of varying coupling. The representation of the ring waves by the poles and zeros is chosen to permit interpretation of the results under the large variety of operational conditions with respect to coupling and nonreciprocity. The application for measuring the material constants of ferrites is discussed."
"An outline of an exact solution for a gyromagnetic rod centered in a right circular cylindrical cavity resonator is given. This solution is applied in evaluating dielectric and tensor-magnetic measurements on a well-known ferrite. Complex frequencies and constitutive parameters are introduced and the solution is expanded in series to obtain a convenient calculational scheme. Comparisons are made of exact and perturbation calculations of results from a small and a large sample. The effect of insufficient symmetry of the cavity is discussed and the condition for sufficient symmetry is given. The g value of electrons was 2.02."
"The variation of line width (Delta H) and effective g factor (g/sub eff/) with cobalt content and with temperature is studied in a series of ferrites of composition Ni/sub 1- alpha/Co/sub alpha/Mn/sub 0.02/Fe/sub 1.9/O/sub 4+-/. Here alpha lies between 0 and 0.09; temperatures range from 20° to 340° C. A minimum in Delta H is observed at alpha=0.027; g/sub eff/ decreases with increasing alpha. The temperature dependence of each is qualitatively that which would be expected on the basis of the temperature dependence of the anistrophy of the mixed ferrite. Above room temperature Delta H and g/sub eff/ increase or decrease, depending on the cobalt content. It is also shown that the shape of the resonance line is determined by the sign of the anisotropy constant. For negative K/sub 1/ the line is steeper on the low-field side of resonance--for positive K/sub 1/ it is steeper on the high-field side. Resonance data are presented on several nickel-cobalt ferrite-aluminates, of composition Ni/sub 1_alpha/Co/sub alpha/Mn/sub 0.02/Fe/sub 2-t/Al/sub t/O/sub 4+-/, with alpha varying from 0 to 0.025 for t=0.3, 0.4, 0.5, and 0.6. The reduction of Delta H and g/sub eff/ expected from anisotropy considerations is observed."
"Ferromagnetic resonance measurements have been carried out on a series of polycrystalline garnets of composition 5Fe/sub 2/O/sub 3/ · 3M/sub 2/O/sub 3/ with M=Y, Sm, Gd, Dy, Ho, Er, and Yb. These measurements were made over a temperature range from 20°C to the Curie points (approximately 280°C). The variations of line widths and effective g values over this temperature range are reported. Y, Yb, and Sm garnets have g values of approximately 2.0 at room temperature while those of Dy, Ho, and Er are appreciably less than 2.0. High-density yttrium garnet has a line width of approximately 50 oersteds at room temperature; line widths of other members of this series were found to vary from 400 to greater than 3000 oersteds. The effective g value and line width of the gadolinium garnet tend to very high values as its compensation point (17°C) is approached. The narrow line width of the yttrium garnet is found to depend strongly on the density of the sample. When the density decreases from 96 per cent to approximately 92 per cent of the theoretical value, the line width increases from 50 to about 150 oersteds. Several technical applications in which these materials might be particularly advantageous are discussed briefly."
"Several new reciprocal ferrite devices have been designed in TEM mode transmission lines to operate over both narrow and extremely broad bandwidths in the low-microwave frequency region. These include variable attenuators, an amplitude modulator, and a traveling-wave tube equalizer. Each component utilizes the attenuation associated with gyromagnetic resonance in low saturation magnetization ferrites. The techniques used to overcome the matching problems inherent in TEM mode transmission lines when ferrite loaded, and the design considerations pertinent to each component, are treated in detail. The parameters affecting the characteristics of each device are discussed and both final design and operating characteristics of the components are presented."
"Optimum geometry for ferrite isolators at low microwave frequencies in rectangular waveguide is discussed and measurements are presented which show the feasibility of constructing a practical isolator at 1300 mc using commercially available ferrites. Further data for a narrower line-width ferrite are presented. The high-reverse to forward-loss ratios obtained are in accord with predictions from perturbation theory."
"Ream displacements up to +-30° have been observed in the radiation patterns from various ferrite-loaded waveguide apertures in transverse magnetic fields. The apertures are used as feeds for Luneberg lenses, and electrical Iobing of narrow pencil beams is accomplished. The proposed use of a square waveguide ferrite-filled feed for a sequential lobing system is described."
"The 1957 Annual PGMTT Meeting concluded on May 10 with a round table discussion on Design Limitations of Microwave Ferrite Devices. This discussion was moderated by Professor C. L. Hogan of Harvard University, and the panel members were Drs. J. O. Artman, H, J. Carlin, D. L. Fresh, G. S. Heller, R. C. LeCraw, H. Seidel, and P. H. Vartanian. The topics considered appropriate for discussion were: 1) high-power effects (nonlinearity), 2) low-frequency limits, 3) high-frequency limits, 4) anomalous propagation in ferrite loaded waveguides, 5) below-saturation behavior of ferrites, 6) \"fast\" ferrite devices (depending on relaxation time), 7) bandwidth problems, 8) materials and losses, and 9) high-speed magnetic field problems. An edited version of the recorded discussion is published on the following pages."
"The isometric circle method is a graphical method of transforming a complex quantity by the linear fractional transformation. It has recently been applied to impedance transformations through bilateral two-port networks. The purpose of this note is to show the connection between the isometric circle method and another graphical method called the \"triangular\" method, and also to present a useful formula for reflection-coefficient transformations through bilateral, lossless two-port networks."
"During the past couple of years, as a result of government interest, silicon microwave crystal rectifiers have not only decreased their noise figures but also have increased their resistance to adverse environments; i.e., high burnout, high temperature, excessive humidity."
"The Annual PGMTT Meeting was held May 9-10 in New York, N. Y., at the Western Union Auditorium. Three hundred and six attended the outstanding program. Twenty-three technical papers were given, three of which had been invited."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Eugene G. Fubini (A'36-SM'46-F'54) was born on April 19, 1913 in Turin, Italy. He received the Ph.D. degree from the University of Rome, Italy, in 1933. Associated with the National Electric Institute of Italy from 1936 to 1938, he also worked prior to World War I, in the Short-Wave Division, General Engineering Department, of the Columbia Broadcasting System."
"Handbook engineering is becoming more and more common in our laboratories and the distance is increasing between the engineer faced with the practical problem and the professional theoretical man. The widening of the practice-theory gap seems to be universal throughout our industry: our efficiency is reduced and progress made more difficult. The people who are compelled to the steady use of hand-book formulas regret this fact and have an intense thirst for knowledge."
"The Professional Group on Micvowave Theory and Techniques has established the microwave Prize to recognize annually a significant paper which appeared in the IRE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques. In selecting the paper, consideration is given primarily to the subject of the contribution and secondarily to its presentation. All members and afiliates of PGMTT are eligible for the award. The award consists of a certificate, a monetary sum of $100, and a feature publication in these Transactions. If the paper has more than one author, the monetary sum is divided equally among the authors."
"Klystron resonant cavities are treated for general cases and their equivalent circuits are theoretically determined, which allows a fairly accurate estimate of resonant properties. It is shown that a reentrant cavity is expressed as a low-frequency series LCR/sub se/ circuit or a shunt LCR/sub sh/ circuit, taking L as the inductance of a toroidal coil with one turn and with a cross section the same as the cavity, C as the gap capacitance plus the equivalent capacitance of the cavity, and R/sub se/ or R/sub sh/ as the equivalent series or shunt resistance of the cavity at resonance. The introduction of the equivalent cavity capacitance has proved to be very effective. The formulas derived here enable one to calculate the resonant frequency within an error of a few per cent and the shunt resistance and the Q within an error of several tenths of a per cent in most cases, and thus should prove to be very useful to the designer of microwave circuits."
"For the general design of conventional, high-Q, direct-coupled waveguide filters to be based on the frequency behavior of a classical ladder network prototype, it is necessary and sufficient that the reflecting elements of the filter be replaceable by admittance inverters and that the lengths of transmission line be replaceable by resonant elements. The error due to the latter assumption is of the order of twice the square of the percentage bandwidth measured in guide wavelengths, and the classical synthesis problem is a limiting case of a solvable transmission line problem. In this limit, an exact equivalence is established between the design of a direct-coupled filter and the design of a quarter-wave-coupled filter based on the same ladder network prototype. Design formulas for equal ripple and maximally flat performance are given for the VSWR's of the reflecting elements in terms of dimensionless quantities. Detailed comparison of previous formulas is made."
"This paper describes a broad-band coaxial hybrid ring which has excellent isolation and balance characteristics. The ring differs from the conventional hybrid in that the fourth arm has a series-type balun feed and is positioned so that a plane of symmetry exists through two of the arms. Isolation between these arms and balance between the output arms are theoretically independent of frequency. The admittance and VSWR of the input arms are computed by bisecting the ring about the plane of symmetry and employing standard Smith Chart techniques. Corresponding experimental data are included. A comparison is made with the conventional coaxial hybrid ring."
"This paper describes an optimum design of monotonic stepped transmission-line transformers when the reflection coefficient and the bandwidth ratio are prescribed. For the analysis, discontinuity capacitances and reflection interactions are neglected and the validity of the conclusions is therefore restricted to small steps. The analysis is applicable to a multistep transmission line of which the quarter-wave transformer is a special case. In particular, it is shown that if the number of steps is increased from three to five a larger bandwidth may be obtained, but it is not possible to reduce the over-all length in this manner. For a given bandwidth, the shortest taper is always a stepped transmission line and never a continuous one."
"This paper describes new microwave techniques employing the properties of N-type germanium diode switches. For applications requiring very high isolations, multiple switches are added in tandem. With proper spacing, they form antiresonant cavity circuits. In this case the isolations and insertion losses in db are directly additive. A switch is described which is normally ON and is pulsed OFF. Finally, details are given of a switch in a hybrid-tee configuration in which switching isolations of 50 db are obtained with an insertion loss of 0.7 db."
"In the use of the impedance (Q-circle) method of measuring the cavity Q values, the presence of losses in the coupling network (between the cavity and the available external terminals) is usually neglected. If appreciable losses are present this simplification is not justitied, and its use can lead to significant errors. The losses in any coupling network can be described by means of an equivalent canonical circuit containing a series and a shunt resistor. The losses due to the series element are immediately apparent from the character of the impedance locus when plotted on a Smith Chart and can be corrected for an \"apparent\" Q value. However, unless the shunt loss can be determined by a separate calibration of the coupling network, the apparent Q value will be ambiguous because the shunt losses occurring in the coupling network are not distinguishable from those in the cavity proper. Methods for using the impedance data for determining the Q values are given on the assumption that the coupling network parameters cm be found. It is also pointed out that due to the presence of coupling losses the loaded and external Q values are no longer uniquely defined, but their meaning depends upon the application of interest. Formulas relating these to the coupling network parameters are given."
"This paper is a theoretical analysis of the excitation of the lowest circular symmetric TM surface wave along an infinite circular dielectric rod by a metallic cylindrical waveguide coaxial with the rod. The asymptotic expressions for all the fields are obtained by means of the Wiener-Hopf method. The expressions for the total average power transmitted to the surface wave, the total average power reflected, and the total power radiated, per unit incident power, are derived and computed for epsilon=2.49 for various radii of the dielectric rod."
"Experimental determinations of the noise temperature ratio, IF resistance, and conversion loss of 1N263 germanium mixer diodes operated in an X-band receiver are presented as a function of mixer temperature for the range -196°C to 27°C. No improvement in receiver noise factor was obtained by cooling the mixer to -196°C; however an improvement of 0.3 to 0.6 db was observed by cooling to a temperature in the region -100°C to -50°C. The exact value of the improvement and the optimum temperature depends on the individual crystal, as well as on dc bias and local oscillator drive."
"A multiple branch directional coupler is discussed for rectangular waveguide applications for series junctions. A design method is developed which is valid for any coupling ratio and any number of branch lines with perfect match and directivity. The frequency response of this type coupler is calculated with the aid of a digital computer."
"Formulas are presented for the design of coupled-transmission-line directional couplers that are rigorous for any value of coupling. Two basic types are treated in detail; the simplest is one-quarter wavelength long at the center of its frequency band, while the other is three-quarter wavelength long. The quarter-wavelength type can be used over an octave of frequencies with approximately consistant coupling, while the three-quarter-wavelength type can be used equally well over more than two two octaves. For example, a -3-db coupler of the first type has a variation of +-0.3 db over a 2:1 band, while the second type has the same variation over a 4.5:1 band. Theoretically both types should have infinite directivity at all frequencies. The experimental results for models of these directional couplers have been found to conform very closely to the theoretical coupling functions, while the directivity, although usually good, is limited by discontinuity effects and constructional tolerances."
"An analysis of the microwave fields in rectangular waveguide indicates that circular polarization of the H-vector components exists at two planes only and the location of these planes is frequency dependent. Also, an examination of Kittel's theory reveals that resonance in ferrites can be made to occur at different frequencies for a constant value of dc magnetic biasing field provided the ferrites are characterized by different values of saturation magnetization. These two effects have been used concurrently in the design of an X-band waveguide isolator for operation over a 45 per cent bandwidth, and at high power levels. The theory underlying the design of this isolator is presented. Included is a treatment of the parameters which affect the isolator design. Finally, an operative isolator is described and its experimental characteristics are reported."
"Robert E. Collin, author of \"A Simple Artificial Anisotropic Dielectric Medium\", which appeared on pages 206-209 of the April, 1958 issue of these Transactions, wishes to make the following correction to his paper."
"A relatively broad-band balanced microwave measurement system has been built using a traveling-wave tube amplifier which permits automatic phase and amplitude transmission measurements to be made simultaneously as a function of frequency over the frequency range 8.7 kmc-9.6 kmc. A phase accuracy of +-1 degree can be achieved for a change of attenuation in the unknown of 24 db. Loss measurements can be made with an accuracy of +-2 per cent. The bridge is built largely of commercially available components and can be easily duplicated. The basic technique is compatible with additional broad-banding efforts as improved components become available, and it will eventually be applicable to all microwave frequencies."
"This method of measuring directivity requires the measurement of the ratio of powers delivered to the side arm when the normal input arm is connected alternately to an adjustable sliding termination and a sliding short circuit. The short circuit is phased to yield maximum and minimum responses and the amplitudes are averaged. Two techniques of adjusting the termination may be used, One procedure requires zero reflection from the termination. The other procedure requires adjustment for a null at the detector and then measurement of the maximum response due to changing the phase of the termination. The inherent errors of the method are analyzed and found to be within the limits--0.01 to 0.00 db in a specific example."
"Waveguide resonance absorption isolators have been developed for use under high peak and average power conditions at L band. Two ferrite materials, one a nickel aluminate ferrite, the other a nickel cobalt ferrite, were developed for this purpose. The characteristics of isolators using these two materials are described."
"In order to obtain filters capable of handling very high power, the use of radial lines and uniform line discontinuities was investigated as the most promising approach. In this connection, it was necessary to consider the equivalent circuit and interaction for H-type radial line mated at each end to uniform TE/sub 10/ waveguide for taper angles of 45°. It was found that the equivalent circuit was valid for taper angles of 45°, and that for engineering design purposes the interaction could be neglected. The author utilized the 45° tapers and the uniform lines to design a high-power microwave filter capable of handling 700 kw at 10 pounds pressure in 0.900 by 0.400 ID waveguide. The design procedure for a multielement filter is described utilizing a partly graphical approach."
"The calculation of the characteristic impedance of the strip transmission line TEM-mode can be reduced to the solution of a two-dimensional potential equation with the strip cross section determining the boundary conditions. Usually this potential equation is solved by conformal mapping, but only the most simple shapes permit exact mapping. Approximations may require considerable work and their accuracy is uncertain. This paper describes an alternative numerical method which is particularly suitable for boundaries consisting of any number of straight lines and right angles. It is based on relaxation methods, but by using also variational principles it derives an approximate value for the impedance, and an upper and lower bound with a difference as small as desirable."
"Theoretical and experimental results are presented to show that the line width and the g factor of a spherical ferrite sample can be measured in a cross-guide coupler. The method is much easier to instrument than the usual cavity method and the measurements are much easier to perform. Experimental verification with a cavity perturbation system indicates that the measured quantities are sufficiently accurate for most purposes."
"The design of microwave multiplexing systems for frequency channelization of a broad-band microwave spectrum is complicated by problems such as off-resonance mismatch and mutual interaction between adjacent filters. By employing directional filters as basic building blocks, it is possible to construct multiplexing filters with a perfect input match since the input VSWR of a directional filter is theoretically unity both at resonance and off-resonance. Less insertion loss of a manifold may be obtained by the use of directional filters than with conventional band-pass filters. Curves giving the predicted response of a manifold containing n elements are presented for single-tuned and double-tuned directional filters. An asymmetrical response shape is obtained which has a midband insertion loss related to the separation of adjacent channels. An experimental model consisting of a five-channel multiplexer has been constructed utilizing double-tuned-circular-waveguide directional filters."
"A modified type N connector for passing RF while grounding the center conductor of the coaxial line has been reported by McLaughlin and Dunn. This device is useful for many applications but in microwave measurements it is sometimes necessary to have a high pass filter with a different dc voltage connected to each side of the filter. One such situation occurs in the connection of the input terminal of a microwave tube at one dc potential to a signal generator at essentially ground potential. Such a filter has been made with a type N connector having a series capacitance in the center conductor and a high resistance wire connected to one side of the split center conductor and passing through a small hole in the outer conductor."
"The inherently narrow ferromagnetic resonance line width attainable with yttrium-iron garnet (YIG) material permits building isolators with greatly improved characteristics at the lower microwave frequencies. An isolator utilizing YIG designed for operation in the UHF range has been reported. This letter describes a coaxial isolator designed to operate at 2250+-50 mc employing yttrium-iron garnet."
"The trough waveguide, although in use for several years, is not widely known and has received only little attention in the literature. This waveguide was suggested by E. G. Fubini, and its fundamental mode may be compared to that of a TE mode in symmetrical strip transmission line."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Advertisement."
"The speaker makes the statement that much of the present work in automation seems to be a matter of fashion rather than of hard, common sense thinking. It is charged that projects like the NBS \"Tinkertoy\", and some of the applications of printed circuits are unjustified economically, or from the point of view of the needs of national defense. It appears to the speaker that a great deal of effort is spent in automating the trivial and the inexpensive. He emphasizes that there are great dangers in designing equipment to use the modular approach, Where the intention is to service the equipment by replacing complete sub-assemblies rather than the individual component parts. The thesis is presented that electronics is too young an industry to be put in a straight jacket of standardized assemblies at this date. The admonition is made that automation is not new, and that as always it should be applied only where very careful cost studies indicate its desirability."
"Steps in the implementation of automation at Admiral are outlined. The selection, development and testing of new component-part forms are described at some length. Standardization,and design details are covered. Stressed is uniformity in product and procedure and recent mechanized equipment improvements. In conclusion, the author prognosticates upon the future gains from automation development."
"Old, tried, and true principles are described as they have been applied to a modified \"fountain\" soldering technique, to virtually eliminate \"drossing\" (tin and lead oxidation) and to reduce contamination to a minimum. A history is given of the development of this technique at Sanders, dating from the early days of the \"Tinkertoy\" program. An early sheet-aluminum stencil and \"solder boat\" dipping method is discussed, with relation to the long time-cycle and the trapped-gasses problem. Mentioned, is an improvement of bringing the solder to the work in solder cups, but which was mechanically grotesque and faced with the twin problem of thermal-loss and dross-formation. A one-shot pump modification is credited with being the forerunner of the true \"fountain\". Presented as the final solution, is a positive-displacement pump that supplies solder through a baffled manifold to selected tube sizestgiving a steady flow of solder which \"fountains, to a uniform height above the tubes. Advantages of the \"fountain\" technique are listed, with emphasis being placed on accurate temperature control and lower soldering temperatures. A refinement is introduced in the form of an anti-oxident oil layer to control drossing, as used in the tinware industry in the \"flow-brightening\" of electrodeposited tin. Other precautions are outlined which reduce contamination. Growing out of this soldering technique for printed wiring, a resistor-wafer soldering machine is described (for stacked-wafer modules using standard resistors). Also presented, is a \"piledriver\" soldering machine for wafers using printed silver patterns and printed component parts."
"The thesis is presented that standardization is the key to compatibility between military equipment design and commercial automation techniques. The definition of \"automation\", as authorized by the Electronic Industries Assn. (formerly RETMA) is given. The cognizant standardization organization, Panel \"A\" within EIA on Automation and Computers is described as consisting of seven main committees with most made up of several subcommittees. It is stated that technical representatives of non-member companies are invited to participate fully in the workS and coordination with IRE headquarters is noted. The first national standard for the Baudot Code is mentioned, and A-3's proposed specification \"STANDARD DIMENSIONAL SYSTEM FOR AUTOMATION REQUIrEmeNTS\" (covering modular hole spacing) is reproduced in its entirety. A few of the \"new attacks,, on automation that Remington Rand has been developing, are pictured. A single drill head, a multiple drill head, and a componentparts insertion machine are shown, which operate on the \"template programming\" principle, using a pantograph-type mechanism. It is mentioned that the principle is adaptable to automatic programming if economically warranted. Reliability of both insertion and the product is discussed, and 99.6% is labeled as too low. An admonition is given to \"KEEP IT SIMPLE,\" and emphasis is placed upon the importance of military feed-back from operational units in the field."
"As publicized in PGPT-2, on 19 March 1957, one of the two special evening Symposia at the IRE National Convention was devoted to the theme: MICRO-MINIATURIZATION - The Ultimate Technique.\" The following six invited speakers, recognized national authorities in their field, contributed: C. Rrunetti, E.F. Carter, H.A. Stone, Jr., Brig. Gen. E.R. Petzing (ret.), J.R. Moore, and W.Y. Hamilton. Reprints of these talks were published in Part 6 of the 1957 IRE National Convention Record. For the purpose of this \"bull session,\" the following represents quotations from the above talks, which have been freely assembled to emphasize the case in point. Editorial manipulation is noted, and proper credit is given."
"It is pointed out that by 1960 both printed wiring and automation will be badly needed by the dynamic electronics industry. Outlined is the recent history of the swing to automation by the component parts manufacturer. Those attempts that have yielded less than uniform products, are laid at the door of lack-of-standardization. Some of the present standardization needs are enumerated. Stressed is the thesis that tighter levels of incoming quality are required for automation. Emphasis is placed upon the composite assembly approach using the ceramic base plate. The author concludes with the hope that in the near future some universally accepted system will evolve, so that a component-parts mechanization-increase can effect a total industry saving."
"The automation experiences of GE's Light Military Electronic Equipment Department are outlined. Military job-shop assembly quantities are established at 200 units. In balancing direct-labor savings against machine costs, it is emphasized that indirect and intangeble savings should be properly evaluated. Examples are given. The five basic problem areas of obsolence, depreciation, factory overhead ratios, cost ratios, and capital investment are discussed. The automation of clerical areas is described and answers are given to some of the associated perplexing questions. These questions are outlined as having to do with people, lack of flexibility, overuse of data processing information, and conversion. Encouragement for the future is voiced."
"The author presents two basic principles of strategy for orderly transition to automation. Also given are eight generalized solutions to the attendant personnel problems -- solutions that were suggested by research studies being conducted by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the U. S. Department of Labor. Specific examples are given. from the case studies of: a TV manufacturer issuing printed wiring and automatic assembly equipment, an insurance company and an airline both using electronic computing systems, and a bakery and an oil refinery representing other industries that are more experienced in automation. The author indicates that, as difficult as the problems of extensive technological change may be, they can still be handled in a constructive and orderly fashion. Answers are suggested to such questions as: how are workers informed about changes; what is the extent of displacement; how were workers reassigned; what was the change in total employment; do new jobs require greater skill; has there been any upgrading or downgrading; and what is the attitude of workers toward the changes? He concludes with an 1835 quotation, \"That machines do not, even at their first introduction, invariably throw human labor out of employment must be admitted; and ... that they never produced that effect .... \"."
"Based on the past experience of a company engaged in this field, their own results and the results of others are assessed. Machines, past and present,~ are discussed covering the last three years. It is concluded that there are none in actual production that, can be truly called \"automation systems\", but that some have reached a significant level of the assembly process. Emphasized is the ,importance of component-part and packaging standardization, particularly in the direction of narrowing the range of physical sizes and configurations, and in the evolving of simpler physical forms. It is pointed out that effective packaging of parts can eliminate a great deal of complications at the assembly machine. Three methods of automatic check of machine performance are discussed from the economics point of view. Automatic set-up, approaching the true automation concept, is predicted - - again, within economic restrictions. Automatic soldering and automatic testing are treated at some length. The economic considerations of a relatively limited future market are outlined. The rate at which future refinements will be integrated is pictured as dependent primarily upon the economic Justification for their development. The author concludes with the prediction that the immediate future will not see a radical change; but that the production segment of the electronics industry must keep pace, as we stand on the threshold of a second industrial revolution."
"The problems of logistics, maintenance and reliability, as imposed by automation on users of military electronics, are presented. It is reminded that the military is very careful to avoid telling industry how to build equipment, and therefore, in theory, automation should be only of military academic interest. On the other hand, with the cost of military electronics sometimes reaching staggering proportions, and with the economic status of the country as important as its military prowess, it is pointed out that the armed services have had a definite and active interest in automatic assembly equipment. The characteristics of Naval shipboard equipment are enumerated as embracing MIL standard component parts, and a relatively small number of non-interchangeable units repairable on shipboard at the component-parts level. Describing the Bureau's policy as leaning toward a broad production base with small business participation, it is noted that machines for automatic production are costly. Naval automation objectives compatible with these basic conditions are listed as including the use of conventional MIL component parts to build a wide variety of units, by means of low cost machinery which is capable of flexible programming. Emphasized is the need for selling the new concept to field personnel, and for expediting general specification changes in order to keep pace with technological progress. Automation is credited with a considerable contribution to reliability. It is suggested that, through the use of interchangeable subassemblies or modules, advantages are gained; yet it is indicated that the Navy would still want to maintain the ability (when the chips are down) to repair \"the throw-away subassemblies.\" It is concluded that there should be no insurmountable difficulties in making changes to the present logistics and maintenance methods, in order to realize the full benefits of automatic assembly."
"The advantages of individual-circuit modular construction are reviewed. Armed Services opinion is quoted, indicating that more modular construction is the most important present trend. A new modular approach is introduced, and several shapevariations which were investigated, are shown. The finally-adopted \"PLUS Module\" standard is described as consisting of a square socketmounted top and another square plug-mounted base, tied together by two printed-wiring boards that are slotted at their center and crossed (to form a third-dimensional PLUS symbol). The advantages of using standard printed-wiring techniques and standard component Darts, are stressed. Details are discussed, including: a design for either dip or hand-soldering methods, a moisture trap solution for a 32-pin connector, heat-dissipation provisions, and epoxy-resin sealing to cope with extreme conditions of vibration and humidity. Possible constructional variations are mentioned. Commercial and economic considerations are outlined, and a break-even point is set at 20 units, as compared with hand-wired modules. The author rates the space-factor as comparable with flat plug-in printed-wiring boards that use the minimum practical spacing; and gives the standard dimensions (in a shielding can) as i 3/8 inches square and 2 3/4 inches high.' In conclusion, he expresses the hope that the new \"PLUS Module\" will help to solve some of the problems of adapting electronic equipment to modular con- struction."
"Although the title is addressed to peacetime conditions, it is pointed out that the possibility of mobilization for war effort, needs to be considered, at least as a background for decisions. It is indicated that mechanization in the component-parts industry is not new, having had substantial beginnings 20 years ago. The author states, although there are in operation ceramic capacitor assembly machines, capable of producing a minimum of 5000 completed capacitors per hour, that general mechanization of the component-parts industry is almost economically impossible. An analysis of production records shows that 75% of all orders are for less than 100 pieces, that 25 to 40 thousand different capacitors are manufactured each month and that 80 to lO0 new designs or variations are created each week, at Aerovox. It is stressed that the multiplicity of types and ratings makes it impossible to speed deliveries, maintain a sizable stock, or implement a general automation program. Materials are pictured as not being a bottleneck item on the standard parts level; but on the other hand, that special materials are badly needed to meet the extended environmental and operational conditions forced upon the industry by new weapon requirements. A step-up in the Military preferred parts activities is recommended as a move to drastically reduce the number of standard parts. Some concern is voiced regarding the controversial Aircraft Industry practice of commissioning small suppliers to design and build \"specialty items\". It is charged that the practice creates still more items purchased from sources where automation is even less practicable, and that reduces reliability through the sponsorship of a handassembly atmosphere."
"In implementing automation it is reminded that the industry is faced with frustrations and dissatisfactions for lack of adequate progress in the standardization of the many facets of mechanized assembly--patterns, parts, assembly, inspection. An advance look is given of an R & D document, to be promulgated by the Signal Corps, titled Design Requiremehts for Printed Wiring Electronic Equipment.\" It is specified that modular units be employed, using printed wiring internally, also integrated through the use of printed wiring, and made adaptable to automation. Etched copper laminate is listed as preferred, line widths and spacings are specified, and the use of epoxy-type conformal coating is required unless the conductors are spaced 4 or 5 times the specified distance. It is presented that the diameter of component-parts leads should be within 0.015\" of the mounting hole diameter, with clinching or flaring preferred, eyelets or other auxiliary devices to be avoided whenever possible. and through-plated holes to be paralleled with jumpers. Other advance information shows temperature control at 520°F and 5 seconds, and rosin-base flux in accordance with MIL-F-14256 (Sig C). Modular hole dimensions are tabulated, the essential information being: 0.300\" or 0.150\" spacing for \"in-line\" leads; 0.100\" or 0.050\" for other leads, with the smaller dimensions acceptable for subminiaturization; and additionally, 0.025\" permitted only for extreme subminiaturization. Modular dimensioning is described as the cornerstone of the projected overall automation system; through its use the hope is expressed that we can raise our overall volumetric packaging efficiency from 15% to 40 or 50%."
"A unique application of worm gearing to electro-mechanical shaft assembly servos is shown, including a survey of basic requirements, and a comparison of alternate configurations. Possible application of mass production techniques to small lot quantities through design standardization is described. The savings in enginerring effort by the selection of standard components having predictable characteristics such as frequency response, backlash, life, etc., are outlined; and additional savings are described, brought about by the use of pre-printed vellums."
"It is indicated that new developments of promise for automation of military electronics have yet to reach actual production. A plea is made for a self-instituted program of standardization and mechanism. The various types of semi-automatic mechanized, and programmed varieties of automation machinery for electronic assembly, are described, and commented upon at some length. A tabulation of their numerous characteristics is contributed. Two graphs present short-run production rates of the eight basic types of machines, when used to assemble 24 or 48 component parts to printed-wiring boards; the number of units to be made are plotted from 0-100. Two other graphs amplify the lower portion and are plotted from 0-10 units. Considerable comment is included. Indexes show cost, manpower and space requirements for batches of 30, 1OO, and 1000 units, and are tabulated against each of the eight varieties of automation. Suggestions are made for the adoption of mechanization. The importance of design modification, modular conversion, and standardization of component parts, are stressed. The results of a specific redesign are cited. Emphasis is placed upon the thesis, that before being submitted to production, the development of a mechanically-producible electronic system must have arrived at a more complete stage of design than one to be manually assembled. Several benefits to be obtained from automation, and some problems, are listed. It is concluded that military electronics development and production can be improves substantially by the action that is suggested."
"As Chairman of the first session: \"MANAGEMENT, HOW TO PREPARE FOR AND IMPLEMENT AUTOMATION,\" the author points out that the session not only focuses upon a subject that all recognize as of primary interest to many facets of the electronics business; but that it also draws a precision bead on the strengths and weaknesses of our progress to date, and upon the problems that comfort us in the further development of our automation programs. The author outlines Emerson's operating policy to buy, not build, automation equipment. The program of expediting and \"applying needles\" is described. Six important advantages of buying equipment are discussed at some length: (1) recourse of exchange, return, or correction, (2) benefit of professional consulting services, (3) access to professional specialists of comoetitors, (4) art learned faster because competition puts its best foot forward to sell, (5) objectivity avoids too much mechanization, and (6) best design may be chosen, section by section."
"Initial development of a magnetostrictive delay line capable of delaying an IF carrier which is amplitude modulated by radar video frequencies is presented. Pulses of IF energy up to 7 mc have been successfully delayed. A typical delay line operated at 5 mc has an insertion loss of 82 db for 70-µsec delay and an attenuation of approximately 8 db for each additional 70-µsec of delay. This line has the advantage that it can be conveniently provided with multiple pick-offs."
"It is shown how a low-pass ladder filter may be transformed to one of two equivalent band-pass, unbalanced, crystal filter structures with three poles and two transmission zeros. The first structure is the bridged T, previously discussed by Mason on an image parameter basis, and the second is a ladder filter. Either type may be designed on an exact insertion loss basis, and both types are equivalent if the Q's of the associated inductors are infinite. With finite inductor O's one may \"exactly\" compensate for inductor losses with the bridged T while one may only partly compensate for inductor losses with the ladder. In spite of this, it is shown that the ladder filter does not suffer too large a degradation in its insertion loss function with reasonable Q's. Practical constraints on both types of filters are discussed."
"This paper is a tutorial review of the various devices that exhibit a photoelectric effect. An exposition of the underlying physical principles that produce photoelectric effects is presented."
"The critical dependency of all electrical devices upon their environment makes temperature stability one of the most important assets of any component. In this realm vitreous enamel dielectric capacitors have unusually predictable properties. This paper presents the results of experiments over a number of years and defines the ability of this component to retrace its capacity characteristic."
"The paper describes an experimental ac motor alternator assembly which produces an output frequency exactly equal to a low-power secondary standard frequency signal source, such as a tuning fork or crystal oscillator. The frequency-controlled system employs a synchronizing type of control in contrast to the more generally employed error-detecting systems. As a result, no error exists between the output frequency and the secondary standard. The control system requires only low-level signal power from the secondary standard reference. The main synchronizing power is drawn from the unregulated feeder line. No mechanical devices are needed for frequency correction or synchronization. The synchronizing system is completely electrical, requiring no mechanical or hydraulic compensating devices. The mechanical components employ only a single moving party composed of rotor shaft and two bearings. The electrical energy supplied to the rotor is magnetically induced across air gaps so that no sliding contacts or brushes are used. Transient loads applied to the system do not produce any frequency transients; in other words, transient and steady-state frequencies are identical. Characteristics of a 500-va experimental unit are presented."
"The permanent magnet is considered as a component for changing the form of energy, and a brief review of the basic physics of the permanent magnet is included with emphasis on the nature of the magnetization process and how the permanent magnet functions in establishing external magnetic field energy. Presently availabIe characteristics of permanent magnets and future possibilities for improving the efficiency of the permanent magnet are discussed as well as the relationships between audio device performance and the unit properties of permanent magnets. In using the permanent magnet, the choice of unit properties, volume, geometry, and magnetic circuit arrangement greatly influence the end performance and efficiency of audio devices. As an aid in exploiting the optimum combination of these variables an electrical analog system using lumped constants is introduced. Data on leakage permeance are presented for the more widely used permanent magnet arrangements in audio work. The analog technique is of general interest from the viewpoint of understanding the energy relationships involved in the efficient application of the permanent magnet and as an aid in predicting permanent magnet performance on a firm engineering basis."
"Present methods of measuring transformer temperature rise require instrumentation with a high degree of accuracy, expensive temperature-control chambers, and relatively skilled operators. A new approach and method is described which provides equal or better accuracy while employing less accurate instruments, a lesser degree of operator skill, and without resorting to temperature-controlled test chambers. This paper describes a bridge test circuit which utilizes a calibrated temperature-rise \"standard\" which acts as a reference in evaluating a test unit. The bridge circuit provides a measure of compensation for varying electrical and ambient conditions. Data and curves are presented which indicate that the constant-temperature chamber could be dispensed with, except for the purpose of calibrating reference \"standards.\""
"Electronic computer program development for small power transformers is described. The methods used are applicable to simple open type designs rated up to 3 kw and up to 1000 volts working with primary and secondary taps. Computer operating time averages 2.5 minutes; most of this is the time required for feeding in the rating data and reading the computer output. Design information includes core, turns, turns per layer, wire size, winding height, winding resistances, regulation, secondary terminal voltage, and total of core and coil losses. An example is given to illustrate the procedure and some incidental advantages of computer design are indicated."
"Current and anticipated Army field tactics, requiring rugged communication ground equipment to withstand a wide range of environmental conditions such as humidity, temperature extremes, shock, vibration, sand, and mud, with a high degree of mobility, have established the need for a series of reliable general purpose, multicontact, power connectors which are capable of meeting these requirements. The AN series of connectors which have been employed to a great extent on military electronic equipments are considered unsuitable for present-day needs because of their high insertion and withdrawal forces, tedious coupling mechanisms, relatively high contact resistance characteristics, susceptibility to contact damage, poor mounting features, large number of maintenance parts, variety of connector classifications for specific applications, and general lack of ruggedness. The Signal Corps Engineering Laboratories in conjunction with the Scintilla Division of the Bendix Aviation Corporation have recently completed a five-year program which resulted in the development of a new series of connectors, designated as the Q series, to replace the AN series for Army applications. This paper presents the design features and performance data on the Q connectors with emphasis being placed on those features which contribute to its ruggedness and reliability."
"The conventional four-crystal lattice filter is analyzed, without recourse to image parameter theory, in order to obtain an (approximate) expression for a general symmetrical insertion-loss characteristic. The resulting expression is given as an equivalent low-pass transfer function which is the ratio of two polynomials of the second degree in complex frequency. These in turn have coefficients which are functions of three parameters: 1) shunt capacitance ratio; 2) fractional-bandwidth, crystal-Q products; 3) fractional stagger of the inner critical frequencies of the crystal. Numerous curves illustrate the effect on the insertion-loss characteristic of the three design parameters. Where comparison is possible, the approximate equations reached in this paper are shown to agree with the corresponding approximate image parameter equations of Kosowsky. Also, a variety of responses are shown to result which were not discovered by previous image parameter techniques. The approximations involved are equivalent to ignoring critical frequencies of the impedance elements (and hence of the transfer function) when these are far removed from the filter center frequency. Thus the representation is only valid near the filter center frequency. However, the error involved in the approximation is typically less than 0.1 db to the 40-db attenuation points, with narrow-band filters."
"This paper describes a representative selection of materials from the general class known as conductive ceramics. Specifically, the materials discussed are tin oxide, zirconium oxide, silicon carbide, and molybdenum disilicide. A table of some of the more pertinent physical, thermal, and electrical properties of each material is included. Some of the present applications of the materials are discussed and other uses are proposed. A graph of the specific resistivity of tin oxide vs absolute temperature is given, and a figure shows the effect of impurities on the specific resistivity of tin oxide vs absolute temperature. A discussion of the results of a preliminary investigation to determine the feasibility of electroplating various metals on the surface of tin oxide is presented."
"The tremendous interest in the solid-state capacitor is due to the cornbination of superior technical characteristics with very small size and large \"bulk\" capacity. Present literature shows 35 vdc and 85°C voltage and temperature limitations. Through the analysis of units made to operate at the extended limits of 100 vdc and 150&degC, a model has been proposed which serves to explain four sets of anomalous and apparently unrelated electrical characteristics found in this type of unit."
"The effects of the periodic application of a reverse emf to dry batteries, with the object of increasing their service life, are discussed and the optimum conditions to minimize the possibility of damage to both fiat and round cells are laid down. The application of this process in ac battery portable radio receivers is examined and it is shown that the extent to which battery service life is likely to be increased is dependent on the conditions of use of the receiver in question."
"The transient behavior of cathode-ray tube phosphors is of considerable interest in many applications, such as the improvement of the signal-to-noise ratio in radars. Although material appears in the literature concerning the decay characteristics a short time after the excitation is switched off, very little appears regarding the buildup characteristics or the decay characteristics immediately following removal of the excitation. The analysis of a phosphor model which covers the entire buildup and decay range is presented in this paper. The analysis shows that under certain conditions the transient behavior of phosphor brightness buildup and decay can be accurately expressed in a relatively simple form during the excitation period and immediately after the excitation is removed. The transient behavior and time constants involved are determined by the number of different types of imperfection centers present and their excitation and decay probability time densities."
"In electronic equipment, the life, reliability, and operating characteristics of component parts (tubes, resistors, capacitors, motors, etc.) to a large extent are determined by temperature conditions within the parts. In practical cases, these internal conditions are best represented by one or more temperatures on the surface of each part. In special cases, with precautions, even large items such as pressurized equipment may be regarded as component parts, and their internal temperature conditions may be related to case temperatures. There is great need to be able to predict the surface temperatures of component parts without performing an endless series of tests, the results of which are ambiguous in many instances. The analysis presented is limited to prediction of surface temperatures of component parts which are cooled primarily by forced convection. In this case, conductive and radiative cooling would be relatively small. This limitation is not a major one, however, because it is expected that most electronic equipment, especially airborne equipment, will be forced-convection cooled. The heat dissipated by component parts by means other than convection will often appear at some other surface and be removed by con- vection."
"This paper, directed toward the designers of electronic equipment, deals with the aspects of thermal stability and radiation resistance of silicone dielectrics. Information is included which indicates how designers can utilize the maximum thermal stability and radiation resistance inherent in the silicone molecule. It points out that the useful life of silicone electrical insulation subjected to these environments is largely dependent upon physical rather than electrical property changes."
"The character of the factors involved in the development of the older kinds of electronic components during the past several decades is examined by considering a few typical components. It is seen that advances in performance capabilities have occurred mainly as a consequence of incremental improvements in materials and processes and not as a result of radically new technology. The extent to which further significant advances may be realized from continued effort along traditional lines is questioned. Attention is called to the rapidly growing area of knowledge in solid-state physics and electronics associated with the development of new solid-state devices during the past decade. It is suggested that the most rapid and significant progress may be made by applying the findings of modern research in physics, chemistry, and electronics to the development of new concepts in devices and methods for accomplishing the electrical functions of the older varieties of component parts."
"The intermetallic semiconductors indium antimonide, indium arsenide, indium phosphide, gallium arsenide, cadmium telluride, mercuric telluride, and bismuth telluride are discussed. Methods of synthesis, purification and single crystal growth are described. Interesting properties of these compounds are examined, and some of their applications listed."
"It is important that transformers for airborne applications be as small as possible. The volume and weight of transformers can be reduced by simplifying the design, and by using better application practices and closer mechanical tolerances. The size can also be reduced by increasing the frequency, current density, coil space factor, or flux density in the transformer. Figs. 1 and 2 show how loss and heat density of the transformer are increased as the size is reduced. Greater heat density can be used if the transformer has improved thermal conductivity, or higher temperature insulation. Performance of a sample transformer using built-in thermal conductors demonstrates the advantage of this system of removing heat. Another sample design using silicone insulation shows how high-temperature materials can be used to reduce size. By using these techniques, it is possible to reduce greatly the size of transformers. To get best results, all the factors affecting size should be considered in order to select an optimum arrange- ment."
"The relationship between nonlinearity and current noise in carbon resistors is investigated. Results are given for seven different groups of resistors, and they show that there is a correlation between the nonlinearity of a resistor and its current noise: in general, noisy resistors are more nonlinear than quiet ones. The character of the relationship varies considerably among the types tested, and it depends on the construction of the resistor."
"Dissipation of leakage power in the surface film of water on an insulator at high humidity is thought to cause the observed improvement in surface resistance by elevating the temperature and evaporating part of the water. Surface resistance of a printed circuit test pattern varied from 0.3 to over 3000 megohms in response to the magnitude of electrical potential applied (5 to 400 volts) and the cleanliness of the sample. In addition to such gradual changes, oscilloscopic observation revealed transient changes, possibly arising from sudden shifting of current paths from one area to another in the surface film of water. Contamination produced transient reductions in resistance as great as 50 per cent. With clean samples, less pronounced and less frequent variations in resistance were observed."
"Presents a message from the PGAP founder."
"Presents the introductory editorial for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the Professional Group on Antennas and Propagation (PGAP) Newsletter. Includes some of the following information: News and events of interest to PGAP members; PGAP Committees and meetings; upcoming conferences, symposiums, and workshops; PGAP publications information; chapter events; and major industry events."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A solution of the broadside back-scattering cross section,\\sigma, of a center-loaded cylindrical antenna with any load impedance,Z_{L}, is obtained by a variational method through a four-terminal network approach. A simple formula for\\sigma, in terms ofZ_{L}and the parametersZ_{11}, Z_{12}, andZ_{22}associated with the antenna has been derived. The impedancesZ_{11}, Z_{12}, andZ_{22}are independent of the load and they are determined by using the variational principle. Numerical results of the first order approximation are presented, and they are in good agreement with some measured results available in the literature."
"A microwave device is described which collimates the radiation from a point feed into a parallel beam. The instrument operates by both reflection and diffraction. The offense against the sine condition is corrected perfectly, so that no monochromatic aberration is present for a moderate field even at very high apertures. The expressions of the aberrations are worked out and a graph is given where one can read the maximum values of the aperture and field for a given tolerance. It seems that the device described may be useful for radio astronomy and for rapid scanning."
"The echo area resulting from traveling waves excited on the surface of long, thin bodies is considered. A means of predicting this echo area on the basis of antenna theory is derived. Computed and measured values are compared for a long wire, an ogive, and a shorted polyrod."
"A formula is developed for the cross section in electromagnetic wave propagation beyond the horizon. The theory assumes that the propagation is the result of scattering by ellipsoidal shaped inhomogeneities in the atmosphere causing variations in the dielectric constant. The method of derivation is straightforward and gives a clear physical picture of the nature of the process. Simplifications concerning the geometric shape, size, and distribution of these inhomogeneities yield 1) the semi-empirical formula of Norton and 2) the formula derived by Gordon for large sized inhomogeneities. Thus, the physical implications contained in these formulas are clearly demonstrated."
"As early as 1939, radio amateurs found auroral ionization useful for communication purposes. Such ionization makes hf and vhf propagation possible over paths as great as several hundred kilometers when other more normal ionospheric propagation modes do not exist. The geometry of reflection is investigated for a variety of transmitter locations based upon the assumption of specular reflection from columnar ionization aligned with the earth's magnetic field lines. The results of the investigations outline the region of useful auroral ionization and the regions on the earth within which the auroral propagation is possible. The probability has been determined of obtaining propagation from a particular transmitter location to any receiver location within the region of propagation. These geometrical studies allow the communicator to predict the most useful transmitter and receiver locations in utilizing auroral ionization for communication purposes. The studies also may suggest methods of minimizing the effects of auroral propagation when it is considered a detrimental propagating mode, for example, when it results in undesirable multipath effects."
"An ideal figure of merit for a communications antenna is derived. This figure of merit is a measure of the time required to transmit a given message to an isotropic receiving antenna from a transmitter which uses the antenna under evaluation."
"The double-layer pillbox is a microwave parallel-plate system in which the image space and the object space relative to a two-dimensional internal reflector are electrically separated by a metal septum. The double-layer prevents the shadowing effects and impedance mismatch that result in a single-layer pillbox when energy from the reflector reenters the primary feed. It also allows correction of the optical aberrations of the system in the image space, the object space, or both. The pillbox with semicircular reflector has wide-angle scanning properties. Its inherent spherical aberration can be reduced by such elements as dielectric lenses, geodesic contours, quasi point-source feeds, and auxiliary reflectors. These techniques have been applied to the construction of pillboxes whose wide-angle scanning properties and improved radiation characteristics substantiate the theory."
"An analysis is presented of the effect on radiation pattern of random errors in the construction of a two-dimensional scanning array. Translational and rotational errors in the positions of all elements are assumed together with errors in the electrical excitations themselves. Translational errors are found to cause the dominant effect. A formula connecting side lobe level and errors is derived and representative curves are shown. For a given tolerance, pattern deterioration is found to decrease as the array is enlarged. For the same tolerance, pattern deterioration is less for a planar array of sizeL^{2}- than it is for a linear array of lengthL. Side lobe increase due to random errors does not depend on scan angle."
"A submarine requires a small VLF antenna for reception while submerged. Since the propagation in sea water is nearly vertical (downward from the surface), the only operative types are horizontal dipoles, electric and magnetic. The electric dipole is coupled by conduction and the magnetic dipole by induction in a loop. The former has no resonance and nearly unlimited bandwidth, but fails when not submerged. The latter, by resonance, is able to present much greater interception area and available power. The magnetic interception area is determined by the size of the radome and by the radianlength or skin depth in sea water (2 meters at 15 kc). The radiation power factor, which is essential to bandwidth and efficiency, is influenced also by the size of the inductor and by the magnetic permeability of an iron core. Simple formulas illustrate these relations for the idealized spherical shape of radome, coil and core. Omnidirectivity in azimuth requires crossed coils in a two-phase circuit."
"This paper determines the radiation characteristics of a semi-flush-mounted cardioid-pattarn antenna on a theoretical basis. The antenna is similar to one described by Clapp in a report of the Electronic Research Laboratory of the University of California. By judicious use of image theory in a radial transmission line formed by extending the antenna surfaces to infinity, the approximate fields of the principal polarization in the antenna are determined. If these fields are terminated in the aperture by a magnetic current sheet, the exterior radiation fields are obtained by integration over the aperture, according to the well-known equivalence theorem. Experimental patterns are given for comparison."
"A two-dimensional slotted array of which the radiating surface is one face of a parallel-plate region is discussed, This configuration differs from others previously reported in that a higher mode is utilized in the parallel-plate region. The array is equivalent thereby to a number of slotted waveguides parallel to each other. The stability of the desired mode requires that the array amplitude be uniform laterally; however, it may have an arbitrary taper longitudinally. The radiation field of the array is discussed with particular regard to the generation of second-order beams. The performance of several such arrays is described."
"In the hf range radiation from aircraft must be accomplished by exciting radiating currents on the airframe itself. One method of exciting such currents is by shunts or notches which electrically penetrate the airframe. The strength of coupling of such devices is analyzed and shown to be proportional to the square of the normal mode current which they interrupt. A theory is developed and substantiated by experimental data, which enables the prediction of the impedance characteristics of such antennas. It is shown that these antennas are most effective when located in a region of high current concentration, and that the current concentration which occurs in the fillet area of swept-wing aircraft makes this area particularly favorable for their installation. Shunt and notch antennas, when they can be used, have a number of structural advantages over cap-type antennas, and certain electrical advantages also. They require no special lightning protection and eliminate the need for special isolating devices. In general, they are capable of handling higher powers before encountering high-altitude voltage breakdown."
"The propagation of electromagnetic pulses around the earth is investigated analytically. The pulses are assumed to be produced by a vertical electric or magnetic dipole. The earth is treated as a homogeneous sphere of either finite or infinite conductivity and the atmosphere is assumed to be homogeneous. It is found that very short pulses become longer the further they propagate, in addition to diminishing in amplitude. The duration of a pulse which is initially a delta-function increases as\\theta^{3}where\\thetais the angle between source and receiver. The results are represented as products of several factors, which we call the amplitude factor, the pulse-shape factor, the time-dependent height-gain factors for the source and receiver, and the conductivity factor. Graphs of these factors and of the pulse shape for several cases are given."
"This paper discusses the results of an investigation of polarization fading conducted over a one-hop F2 layer path from eastern Massachusetts approximately 1000 miles westward. Continuous recordings of pulse transmissions were made to study the instantaneous variations in amplitude of the vertically and horizontally polarized components of the received signal. Results are presented which show a strong dependence between the amplitudes of the two components. Deep fades on one component were found to be accompanied by maxima of the other. A possible interpretation is presented which involves interference between the magneto-ionic components and leads to some interesting conclusions regarding their characteristics. Results are also included to illustrate the variations in these signal levels as the MUF is approached."
"An approximate attenuation coefficient due to ohmic loss is derived for both parallel slots and parallel strip lines. The capacitance per unit length, as well as the inductance per unit length of the lines are also obtained. The properties of a transmission line immersed in a lossless dielectric are thus completely determined. The attenuation coefficient due to lossy dielectric may be approximated by similar procedure."
"The purpose of this paper is to show the power of the Sommerfeld expansion in computing Fresnel and near fields of antennas, a matter which has become of increasing importance in high resolution antennas. A connection is shown between the Fresnel and Fraunhofer approximations for radiation fields which is derived by using Sommerfeld's expansion of the field in inverse powers of radial distance. This expansion permits an estimate of the error incurred in using the Fresnel approximation. Higher-order corrections to the phase and amplitude portion of the Fresnel approximation are also exhibited. By way of illustrating the power of the Sommerfeld expansion of the fields in the Fresnel (intermediate) region of a radiation source, numerical calculations of amplitude, phase, and power patterns have been made for a finite line source of lengthDwith an equiphase cosine-on-a-pedestal current distribution. It is found that the first five terms of the series are sufficient to obtain accurate results whenr\\geqD^{2}/2\\lambda, as compared with the Fraunhofer approximation which is usually considered valid forr\\geq2D^{2}/\\lambda. Non-Fraunhofer zone effects on the power pattern and phase front are discussed as a function of distancerand the type of current distribution."
"High-frequency radio echoes from ionization associated with the Aurora Borealis have been identified at Stanford University (geomagnetic latitude43.75\\deg). The echoes occur at ranges between 1400 km and 4700 km corresponding to reflection from ionization in the zone of maximum auroral occurrence located far to the north of Stanford. The formation of the ionization is attributed to the bombardment of the upper atmosphere by high-speed charged particles emitted from the sun. The echoes have great amplitudes with duration times between one second and one hour. Their appearance and disappearance is quite similar to the behavior of visual auroras; the occurrence of the echoes has been found to be related to geomagnetic disturbances. The heights of reflection appear to be between 100 km and 1200 km above the surface of the earth. The paths which the auroral signals travel over the relatively enormous distance from Stanford to the auroral zone (and back) are greatly influenced by the presence of the normal ionospheric layers. The echoes have been observed at ranges and bearings which indicate reflection from ionization at points along the auroral zone all the way from eastern Canada to Alaska."
"Using methods of physical optics, a statistical description of the scattering of waves off a rough surface is obtained. The rough surface is assumed to consist of a large number of independent point scatterers which fluctuate randomly in vertical position and also disappear and appear at random. The surface is divided into cells so that no more than one scatterer can occupy a cell, and the events in any two different cells are independent of each other. The average scattered signal, the mean square fluctuation, and the time covariance of the fluctuating portion of the signal are computed in terms of the mean-square scatterer height, the grazing angle, the radiation wavelength, the decay time for disappearance of scatterers, the time autocorrelation of a scatterer height, and the a priori probability of finding a given cell occupied by a scatterer."
"Experimental results with center-fed corrugated and dielectric-clad spherical-cap antennas are presented and compared with the theory. The spherical surface waves supported by these structures give rise to radiation field patterns which are omnidirectional in the azimuth plane and which can be shaped in the elevation plane over a considerable range. The corrugated sphere provides vertical polarization while the dielectric sphere can support either polarization. The spherical caps are shown to have a natural application as low-drag beacon antennas when the surface geometries and sphere radii are appropriately adjusted."
"This paper studies the near field of the prolate spheroidal antenna. By expanding the components of the electromagnetic field in terms of the spheroidal functions, we determine the current distribution over the antenna and the impedance at the gap. We consider both center and off-center gaps forkL = 1, 1.49, 2, 3, 4, wherek =2\\pi/\\lambda, Lis the semifocal length of the spheroid, and\\lambdais the wavelength. The radiation resistance is calculated from the far field and found to be in excellent agreement with the resistance at the gap calculated from the near field."
"In this paper the scattering of a plane wave by a rectangular dielectric strip is calculated by approximating polarization currents in the strip. One advantage of the technique applied here is that no variational calculations are needed. Results of experimental investigation show good agreement with the predicted pattern."
"An analysis of the scattering effect of a thin dielectric ring on an electromagnetic field is developed under two assumptions: the incident field is the free space field of the source, and the scattered field tends asymptotically to zero as the radial thickness of the ring approaches zero. When an integral equation of Barrar and Dolph, derived directly from Maxwell's equations, is employed, a formal expansion of the field in powers of the thickness is obtained, and then it is proved that the linear approximation obtained from it is indeed asymptotically equal to the total field. The sufficiency of this approximation is justified by experimental evidence. The far-zone pattern function of the ring is next obtained, and the resulting formulas are applied to the situation where the incident field is generated by a dipole antenna coaxial with the ring for which experimental comparisons are possible."
"A theoretical study is made of the propagation of surface waves along an infinite plane conductor coated with a layer of ferrite material subjected to a constant external magnetic field. For three directions of the external field, the electric and magnetic fields are computed for the separate media, and the relations between them arising from boundary conditions are expressed as transcendental equations. In the limiting case of small ferrite layer thickness (because of the loss problem of greatest physical interest), the fields and propagation constants may be expressed as simple closed forms."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"For a VLF flat-top antenna much smaller than the radian sphere (a sphere whose radius is one radianlength), the effective height, effective area, and effective volume are defined. The required power factor of radiation proportionately determines the effective volume. For a specified power to be radiated, the effective height inversely determines the current and the effective area inversely determines the voltage. For a limited electric gradient on the overhead wires, the current requires a proportionate area of conductor surface. A corresponding total length of wire in the flat top is adequate if disposed for uniform distribution of charge and if spread out to realize the required effective area. These objectives are obtained more readily by some configurations, such as long parallel wires or concentric circles of wire. This study has been made for the U. S. Navy's high-power transmitter to be located in Maine, the first to radiate 1 megawatt continuously at 15 kc."
"The exact fields generated by transient electric and magnetic dipoles in an infinite conducting medium are derived. Specialization to brief, approximately triangular pulses then brings out the salient practical features of such signals. The peak signals are attenuated asr^{-3}orr^{-4}rather than exponentially, and, in a practical sense, they travel very slowly (mean effective velocity about equal to sonic speed for a range of 1 km in sea water)."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Based on comparisons between field strength records at 2300 mc and simultaneously measuredMcurves it is concluded that the most important propagation disturbances on the test path are caused by reflections from discontinuities in the refractive index profile. The occurrence probability for such discontinuities is shown to have a marked seasonal and diurnal period with a maximum in the summer and around sunrise."
"The radiation properties of a single zig-zag antenna are reported. This is a special type of broad-band traveling-wave antenna which, when properly designed, produces a strong axial beam of radiation. The radiation pattern has a half-power beamwidth of22\\degin theEplane and28\\degin theHplane; the corresponding sidelobe ratios are 10.5 db and 17.5 db down, respectively, in the two planes. Approximate expressions for the radiation fields are also given and compared with the experimental values. The broad-band property of the antenna is studied by measuring the radiation patterns over a range of frequencies. The performance of the antenna is compared with the Yagi antenna. The high directivity of the antenna can be utilized advantageously in the vhf and uhf ranges. The results of impedance measurement also are reported."
"The problem of determination of the current distribution over a cone surface, which will produce a prescribed radiation pattern, is formulated.Fpattern andGpattern are defined and expressed in terms of a \"potential\" function\\Phi, in case of currents polarized in the direction of the generating lines of the cone. A matrix relationship is found between coefficients of a series expansion of\\Phiand coefficients of a series expansion of the currents. The relationship becomes a direct one to one correspondence in case of an infinite biconical system."
"An expression is derived which yields the feedpoint admittance of a folded unipole or dipole at any desired frequency. This expression shows that the input admittance is composed of two parts-a radiation part and a transmission line part. The radiation part is analyzed as a vertical radiator while the transmission line part is analyzed by transmission line theory. The terms of this expression allow the input admittance of the antenna to be studied in terms of the physical parameters. By plotting the feedpoint admittance on a Smith chart it is possible to observe at what frequency the currents in the feeding transmission line exceed some desired standing wave ratio and thus obtain a measure of the bandwidth of the antenna. The findings show that the broad-band characteristics of the folded diple are obtained primarily through the increase in equivalent cross section caused by the folding of the two elements. The bandwidth is further aided by the reactive component of the transmission line part being opposite to the reactive component of the radiation part, even though the reactive component of the transmission line part is considerably smaller than desired. Experimental and calculated results show that for a given size conductor the bandwidth is improved as the spacing between conductors is increased. The spacing should be as wide as possible but still provide the desired field pattern and input admittance. The bandwidth of a folded dipole is improved if the conductor size is increased regardless of the spacing between elements. Maximum bandwidth is achieved by using large conductors with wide spacing."
"Results are given from a general investigation regarding the different factors that govern vhf ground wave propagation at low heights and short distances, i.e., mainly in the Sommerfeld region. In this work the influence on field strength from ground moisture and temperature, snow, topography, and vegetation, and also field strength variations along mixed land-water paths have been studied. The measurements refer to terrain typical for middle Sweden. Suitable formulas for field strength calculations over smooth ground are developed. The moisture in the ground is found to play a principal role and a method is shown for calculation of changes in the path attenuation caused by known or predicted changes in the water content of ground. The influence of temperature is found to be smalls even when the ground freezes, but a covering of snow may be of greater consequence. Characteristics of local variations and exponential attenuation of the field in a forest is demonstrated, the fluctuations being very large and the average exponential attenuation factor mostly very small. Measurements along a mixed land to fresh-water path verifies Millington's recovery effect. The field over a hill is found to have a maximum value a certain distance below the top towards the transmitter."
"Since materials with a continuous variation of index of refraction were unavailable for the construction of spherical Luneberg lenses, an investigation was made of stepped-index lenses in which the desired continuous variation of index with radius was approximated by a number of constant-index spherical shells. Experimental data on two-dimensional,TE_{10}mode, stepped-index Luneberg lenses indicated that 10 shells were sufficient for 18-inch diameter lenses for use atXband. Expanded polystyrene materials, developed with dielectric constants ranging from 1.1 to 2.0 in increments of 0.1, were used to construct 10-step, 18-inch diameter, spherical Luneberg lenses. Performance data for these lenses are given at wavelengths of 3.2, 1.8, and 0.8 centimeters."
"Since the size of current radar antennas must be increased in order to detect aircraft and missiles flying at supersonic speeds, it is no longer possible to use rapid mechanical scanning. Therefore this type of scanning is being gradually replaced by electrical scanning. The popular approximation which states that the effective aperture length is proportional to cos\\theta_{0}, where\\theta_{0}is the scan angle from broadside, is examined and shown to be adequate in many cases where the end-fire effect is negligible. An exact effective aperture based on half-power beamwidth is derived and compared with the approximate solution for various aperture lengths as a function of scan angle."
"The Villars-Weisskopf-Wheelon theory describing turbulent mixing of an established gradient is shown to contain a contradiction which necessitates its being discarded. To fill the gap thus created, the theory of isotropic mixing is extended to account for the presence of a gradient. The results indicate that \"mixing-ingradient\" cannot be employed to explain the wavelength dependence characteristic of much of the radio data. On the other hand, it is shown that experimentally determined spectra of refractive index fluctuations lend strong support to the mixing theory herein set forth. Hence, the conclusion is reached that scatter theory, as it is currently based on atmospheric turbulence, can provide, at best, an incomplete description of transhorizon propagation."
"A theoretical method of finding the characteristic impedance of two infinite cones of arbitrary cross section is presented. In this problem, the spherical geometry can be mapped on a plane, thus reducing the problem to finding the solution of Laplace's equation by using conformal mapping techniques. This method is applied to the inclined biconical antenna and several types of fin antennas. The solution for the biconical antenna isZ_{0}=\\eta/2\\pi \\cosh ^{-1}F, whereFis a function of the geometry of the antenna. For the fin, the solution takes the formZ_{0} =\\etaK(k)/K'(k)whereKandK'are complete elliptic integrals of the first kind andkdepends on the geometry."
"While several excellent papers have been published describing the theory of operation of the annular slot radiator, certain design parameters have not been too readily available. This note gives susceptance data for practical configurations having electrical diameters of from 0.2 to 0.6 wavelength."
"Statistical analysis of signal recordings at 10 cm wavelength has given the following results. The distance dependence of the half-hour signal medianF_{m}over a sea path corresponds to a scattering parameter which is approximately inversely proportional to the height. BetweenF_{m}and the surface value ofMa correlation coefficient of 0.62 is found, and betweenF_{m}and the dew point 0.55. A unit increase ofMseems to be followed by a signal increase between the limits 0.3 and 0.8 db. The fading range, as defined between the 10 per cent and 90 per cent of time levels, is 12-14 db, and the fading frequency mostly about 2 c/s for a 300 km path. Over a 260 km land path the pulse broadening was normally0.1-0.2 \\mus which corresponds to a scattering parameter varying inversely as the first to second power of the height. A severe pulse distortion caused by selective fading is found to be very common. Some other propagation characteristics are also discussed."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Height-gain calculations have been made using Norton's formulas at low and broadcast frequencies in cases where the values of numerical distance and numerical height do not permit the use of simplified graphical methods. Field strength measurements at various altitudes showed good agreement with the calculated values. The airborne field strength measuring installation and the manner of its use are described."
"Many antennas, especially for aircraft application, must radiate into large sectors and operate over wide bands of frequency. At the same time, means of pattern control are often limated. In order to evaluate the performance of such antennas, several antenna-rating schemes have been proposed in the past. This paper1is concerned with the evaluation of HF aircraft antennas used for long-range voice ground-to-air and air-to-ground communications. The different antenna evaluation methods are compared theoretically for consistency among themselves. It is shown that they all lead to essentially identical relative ratings of different antennas used on the same aircraft. Furthermore, these ratings can be related to articulation scores, operationally the most significant parameter of voice-communication circuits. Since all the rating schemes investigated lead to about the same results, the simplest of these, namely the radiation pattern efficiency, appears to be the most suitable measure of effectiveness of HF aircraft antennas. The conclusions reached were verified through computations on radiation patterns obtained from model measurements."
"All results of the approximative diffraction theory dealing with the propagation of radio waves around a smooth spherical earth (surrounded by a homogeneous atmosphere) can be derived from a one-dimensional integral equation originally discussed by Hufford. This equation can be solved in terms of operational calculus which leads, first of all, to the well-known residue series. In this treatment the Sommerfeld theory for a fiat earth appears at once as a limiting case; moreover, analytic expressions for correction terms accounting for the finite value of the earth's radius are easily determined. Finally, the equation in question can also be used for the extension to inhomogeneous soil conditions, without neglecting the earth's curvature."
"The applicability of the four electrode methods of measuring ground conductivity at very low radio frequencies is discussed. The general theory is extended to include anisotropy in the substrata. In view of the spurious coupling between the current and potential line in conventional configurations, an alternative array is proposed which is arranged so that the inductive coupling is zero. A number of charts are computed which facilitate the interpretation of the measured or apparent conductivity in terms of a two-layer earth."
"If the highest permitted harmonics of the distribution function (this is the quantity of interest in practical application) and the supergain ratio are given, what is the maximum attainable gain? In this paper this optimum problem is solved through the introduction ofndimensional vectors and tensors and the result is obtained in closed form. For the case of two harmonics, numerical results are given. It is concluded that a small improvement in the specific gain is accompanied by a large change in the supergain ratio. The examination of the maximum of the specific gain, without auxiliary condition, leads to the conclusion that the addition of every harmonic increases the value of specific gain, but that the improvement is negligibly small until the number of harmonics becomes greater than the size of the aperture in wavelength. Using the method developed in this paper it is possible for any finite number of harmonics to calculate the optimum distribution function, but the computations become very lengthy as the number of harmonics increases."
"One of the principal concerns of the aircraft antenna designer is to determine whether an antenna having some known terminal impedance characteristics can be compensated to meet a specified, voltage standing-wave ratio (VSWR)-bandwidth relation. Alternatively, the problem may be to select from among possible antenna configurations that one which possesses the greatest impedance broadbanding potential. In this paper the problem is examined by means of modern circuit theory. Antenna impedances are approximated by rational algebraic fractions and the impedances represented by these functions are treated analytically to determine the VSWR-bandwidth relationship which may be obtained by optimum compensation. The functions that can be considered by the techniques developed are sufficiently complex to adequately represent the basic impedance characteristics obtained with typical airborne flush-mounted antennas over a frequency range that causes the dimensions of the antenna to vary between a small fraction of a wavelength and approximately a wavelength. Examples are given."
"By applying optical laws and ray tracing techniques to paraboloidal reflectors, it has been possible to derive the focusing and phasing criteria for obtaining wide angle performance of a paraboloidal microwave antenna system. Although this optics approach represents an approximation to the exact solutions, the experimental results indicate it is satisfactory for practical uses. The analysis indicates the sections of the paraboloidal reflecting surface best suited to line source correction. The reflector peripheral contour which tends to minimize sidelobes has been indicated. Two types of midpoint correctors are discussed. These will produce beams fanned in the elevation plane and well focused in the azimuth plane. Experimental results are presented from a midpoint corrector covering 60 degrees in elevation while maintaining well focused azimuth patterns over the entire elevation interval. Several pencil beams may be produced using one reflector by placing ridge line correctors at the appropriate angles on the focusing surfaces."
"Electromagnetic noise and propagation measurements have been made in the vicinity of a nuclear reactor to determine whether reactor radiation would affectX-band and VHF signals. No radiation effects were observed. A 15-footX-band propagation path was instrumented for observation of attenuation and phase changes. The over-all sensitivity was one part in10^{5}or 10Nunits average over the path. Reactor radiation over the path was greater than10^{4}roentgen per hour. No significant phase or attenuation change was observed as reactor power level varied. A 12-db noise figure, 8-mc bandwidth, 18-inch dish antenna,X-band receiving system, and a 12-db noise figure, 4-mc bandwidth, tuned dipole antenna, 94-mc receiving system were pointed at the reactor from approximately 18 feet. No significant electromagnetic noise generated by reactor radiation was observed with these receiving systems."
"Shannon's formula for channel capacity in terms of bandwidth and signal-to-noise ratio is used in a proposed method of antenna evaluation as a weighting function for averaging antenna patterns and impedances over space and frequency. This method is particularly applicable to situations where antennas with widely different characteristics are being compared for similar applications over relatively large bandwidths in which the characteristics of each antenna are subject to wide variation. The evaluation method based upon the Shannon formula is compared with others such as the \"antenna-system-efficiency\" and \"minimum-level\" methods."
"This report presents an analysis of those characteristics of the radio signal received on the ground from an artificial earth satellite which are caused by satellite spin. It is shown that if the spin axis of the satellite does not coincide with the axis of symmetry of the satellite antenna system, a CW transmitted signal will be split into three closely spaced spectral components in a manner similar to the Zeeman effect in atomic spectra. The relative amplitudes of the three spectral components are calculated for various combinations of satellite antenna type, ground antenna type, antenna observation angle, and angle between the spin axis and antenna symmetry axis of the satellite, and the significance of these results is discussed."
"A simplified method of computing knife edge diffraction in the shadow region is presented which is applicable to most obstacle gain paths, that is, paths with a dominant mountain obstacle. The method has been worked out for 1) the four-ray model-specular reflection on each side of the obstacle, 2) the two-ray model-reflection on one side only, and 3) the single-ray model-no reflection on either side. The obstacle can be at any location along the path. The accuracy is within 2 db for path geometries such that the usual diffraction parameter\\nuis greater than 1 and the two terminal heights are less than the obstacle height. Curves which further simplify the computation procedure are presented."
"The daily variations of hourly median 1046-mc transmission loss, recorded over a 370-kra propagation path, are found to be correlated with a new meteorological parameter that combines the thermodynamic stability of the atmosphere and the \"useful gradient\" of the radio refractive index. The thermodynamic stability is evaluated from the area contained between the observed temperature distribution with height and the pseudo-adiabatic temperature lapse, while the useful gradient of the refractive index is derived from ray tracing considerations, and is weighted towards the initial gradient."
"Microwave lenses of the waveguide type are subject to a pronounced degree of chromatic aberration because of the inherent dispersion of the waveguides. However, this aberration can be substantially eliminated over an appreciable bandwidth by making the lens of slot-loaded ridged waveguides with special properties. This type of lens design makes it possible to achieve additional benefits as well, such as improved scanning capability and elimination of discontinuities in the surfaces at the junction of adjacent \"zones\" or \"steps.\" The ridged waveguides are periodically loaded by means of transverse slots in the ridges. The ridges may be relatively wide and hollow, or quite thin and solid. Additional desirable properties are obtainable by placing a relatively small strip of dielectric material above the ridge. Experimental data on the propagation characteristics of several of these structures and on the effect of varying such parameters as ridge height, slot width, slot depth, slot spacing, frequency, and size of dielectric strip are given. An analysis of the phase errors which result from changes in the operating frequency shows that the aberrations may conveniently be separated into one type in which the phase front from each zone of the lens is distorted, and a second independent type in which the desired phase relationship between the zones is destroyed. Methods of eliminating either or both of these types of aberration by suitable design of the ridged waveguides are described. In addition, it is shown how the ridged waveguides can conveniently be used to achieve \"zoning\" or \"stepping\" by changing the effective index of thereby eliminating discontinuities in the lens surfaces and avoiding the undesirable diffraction which would otherwise occur at the boundaries between adjacent zones. The superiority of this type of lens structure in wide-angle scanning applications is also discussed. Numerical examples which illustrate the advantages of the loaded ridged waveguide lens are included."
"A formula is given for the maximum gain of a class of antennas having fields expressible as a finite number of spherical wave functions. This maximum gain can be achieved for arbitrarily polarized radiation fields, and it can be related to antenna size by requiring the near fields to be small in magnitude. Also, the radiation field is in the form of a polynomial, so that patterns optimum in the Tchebycheff sense can be defined. Formulas for the relationship of beamwidth to sidelobe level are given."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This paper describes the techniques and the measured radar return from \"phantom targets\" using 8.6 and 4.3- millimeter radars. The radar returns are compared to the measured back-scattering cross section of water drops, insects, steam and other materials at 8.6-mm wavelength as measured by a CW radar at this wavelength. Within the limits of the conditions used in the laboratory, it was impossible to produce returns from synthesized refractive index gradients of sufficient magnitude to account for those noted on the radar. It is concluded, therefore, that for the millimeter wavelengths and the short ranges considered, the observed phantom returns were due to solid or liquid particles in the atmosphere."
"Extensive numerical results are presented for the radiation fields of electric and magnetic type antennas mounted on smooth curved surfaces of finite conductivity. The model chosen is a circular cylinder whose surface impedance is specified. A residue series representation is employed for the portion of space deep in the shadow while a geometrical-optical representation is used in the \"lit\" region. In the penumbra, the fields are expressed in terms of the \"Fock functions.\" The results are also applicable to other smoothly varying curved surfaces such as spheres, parabolic cylinders, and paraboloids. As an application, theE-plane patterns are computed for a small loop antenna on a spherical earth for both sea and land illustrating the so-called cut-back effect."
"The distribution of slot conductance of nonresonant arrays is obtained by considering the array as a continuous line source. Distributions of conductance per unit length for three Taylor aperture distributions are thus obtained. However, the discreteness of the array is retained for a discussion of second-order beams and for the development of a method leading to their suppression. The performance of an experimental array is described."
"An experimental comer reflector was erected at the Table Mesa antenna range near Boulder. The aperture angle of this antenna was made adjustable to any value between 20 and 180 degrees. The widths and lengths of the reflecting surfaces were each adjustable from 0.4 to 5.0 wavelengths. Measurements of gain were made for numerous combinations of lengths and widths of reflecting surfaces. These measurements were made with a half-wave dipole in the first, second and third maximum positions. The aperture angle was adjusted to maximize the gain. The principal results are presented in the form of contours of constant gain plotted for a range of widths and lengths of reflecting surfaces from 0.4 to 5.0 wavelengths. These graphs should be useful to a designer of corner-reflector antennas."
"A circuit is described which permits the remote control of several quantities, such as transmitter frequency, direction of polarization and RF match, at an unattended antenna tower. It requires only a single telephone line, which already exists for communication purposes at many test sites. Each quantity is controlled by a separate motor. The motors are controlled separately from the control end. This is achieved by adapting and installing a dialing circuit which allows, first, any desired motor to be \"dialed\"; next, to be controlled; and, finally, the line cleared so that another motor can be called. The parts for the dialing circuit were purchased at a total cost of about $150. Detailed circuit diagrams are given showing how the circuit is constructed."
"By using a broadside phased array for an antenna, a narrow beam can be swung rapidly and in quick succession through a limited sector by fast control of the phasing, rather than by movement of the entire antenna structure. This technique is used at the receiving end of a 101-mile beyond-the-horizon transmission path in order to probe the portion of the troposphere through which the signal is propagated. At the frequency employed of 3.12 kmc, a 0.49- degree beam is swung in azimuth through a 4.2-degree sector each tenth of a second. A variety of phenomena are observed with this technique which have not been directly apparent in slower beam-swinging experiments. The beam-broadening effect attributed to atmospheric scattering is not always evident on any one sector scan. However, the change from scan to scan is frequently rapid enough so that a time average would show the broadening. At times the scan-to-scan changes are systematic and show a continuity indicative of a motion of the scattering or reflecting regions; in some cases this motion is too rapid to be accounted for by transport of air, thus implying a wave motion rippling through the atmosphere. At other times the atmospheric structure is too fine to be resolved by the beamwidth employed, and the time variations are too rapid to reveal a continuity from one scan to the next."
"Echo on high-frequency communication services is defined as the simultaneous reception of signals over both major and minor arcs of the great circle connecting a transmitter and receiver. Two distinct kinds of echo are recognized according to the illumination conditions under which they occur. Echo of the first kind is observed when the great-circle path coincides with the twilight zone surrounding the earth, whereas echo of the second kind, which can occur only on fairly long communication paths, is most severe when the short path is most intensely illuminated. Little can be done to obviate echo of the first kind and it is not, like echo of the second kind, amenable to prediction by available methods of calculating sky-wave field intensities. Radio traffic data are cited which corroborate calculations and show both that echo of the second kind is more severe at times of maximum solar activity, and is less severe on higher frequencies. Conclusions are drawn concerning mode of operation and choice of operating frequency to minimize echo interference."
"A new method of solving the problem of diffraction of EM waves by the smooth crest of a perfectly reflecting cylindrical mountain has been previously reported. This paper presents the results in a form more suitable for practical applications. The theory is extended, and good agreement with model experiments is obtained for scattering angles up to 5 degrees. The procedure for including the effects of reflections from the ground on either side of the mountain is also indicated. A few examples illustrate cases encountered in practice, and exhibit effects up to 8 db compared with knife-edge diffraction."
"This paper describes an experimental study of the influence of the shape of foreground terrain profiles near terminals of UHF links on the received field. A gently rounded shape of the foreground profile causes a marked diffraction pattern to be superimposed on the normal variation of field strength with height. The diffraction geometry shows similarity to knife-edge geometry and the rounded terrain feature appears to act geometrically as an equivalent knife edge. The amplitude of the spatial variations in signal are, however, much greater than knife-edge theory predicts. A sizeable foreground diffraction enhancement of received field can be realized by locating the antenna at the height of the first diffraction maximum. Changing refraction due to meteorological variations can change both the position in height and intensity of the diffraction pattern."
"The existence of a surface wave which propagates across a corrugated metallic surface at an oblique angle with the teeth is investigated both experimentally and theoretically in this paper. Expressions are derived which give the variation of the wave velocity and amplitude with the change of wave direction. Experimentally measured values of the surface velocity compare favorably with the theory. The radiation pattern of an experimental antenna is given which demonstrates that a low sidelobe, narrow azimuth beam scannable to\\pm30degrees with a cosecant-squared elevation pattern is attainable. A method of feeding this antenna to give a low silhouette, making the corrugated scanner antenna suitable for flush mounted applications is illustrated."
"Wave propagation in the H-guide is investigated theoretically and experimentally. Relations are derived for description of the field distribution and for calculation of the distribution constants of the single- and double-slab guide. Higher modes are studied. The height of the guide can be increased without introduction of undamped higher modes. The attenuation constants are calculated and analyzed for X-band and millimeter waves. Conduction and dielectric losses are considered. Radiation losses and the corresponding attenuation are calculated. The radiation can be arbitrarily reduced by increasing the height of the guide. The maximum transmitted power at electric breakdown is calculated. Experiments are discussed which confirm the theoretically obtained results. The overall results suggest modifications of the original structure and permit the conclusion that the guide is particularly suitable for the frequency range above 20 KMC."
"A transverse electric field detector is described and some of its limitations are discussed. Using this detector, the field pattern in rectangular waveguide has been measured for varying slab positions, thickness, and dielectric constant. Field distributions for a slab against a side wall have been computed and compare favorably with experiment. Widely varying patterns are achieved even when only a single mode is propagating. The result of mixing two or more modes is also pictured. Similar patterns are round in ferrite loaded waveguides for which the applied magnetic field is an additional variable. The effect of varying the parameters, especially with regard to the nonreciprocal nature of the field patterns, is discussed."
"Experimental results are presented to show the effect on the line width of the sample size and the surface finish of a YIG sphere measured in a cross-guide coupler. With this method, a 3:1 variation in sample size caused a 5-percent change in the line width, while an improvement in the surface finish caused a 25-percent reduction in the line width. Preliminary experimental data also indicated that there was no variation in the line width as a function of frequency from 2.6 - 18.0 KMC, but that the measured line width at 35 KMC was twice as large."
"This nonreciprocal TEM-mode network consists basically of a parallel arrangement of two conductors and a ferrite rod within a grounded outer conductor. The conductors are connected in a two-port configuration providing, in the absence of the ferrite rod, complete isolation from zero frequency to the cutoff frequency of the first higher mode. With an unmagnetized ferrite rod properly inserted, the broadband isolation is virtually unaffected. When the rod is magnetized by an axial magnetic field, coupling occurs between the two ports by a process analogous to Faraday rotation. The device may be used as a broad-band gyrator, switch, or modulator, and with the addition of a resistanee card as an isolator. The bandwidth of these components is inherently limited only by the bandwidth capability of the ferrite material itself."
"Non-reciprocal properties of the circular electric waves propagating through the circular wave guides containing coaxially a circumferentially magnetized ferrite cylinder bave been discussed mathematically. Numerical examples are illustrated especially with respect to the lowest circular electric,TE_{01}, mode. The optimum design formula for the field displacement isolator is derived. The method for determining the critical cutoff guide radius which suppresses the higher order sprious mode is also given and the practically convenient design charts are presented. As a result of the present analysis, it becomes make out that the cut-off frequency or the cut-off guide radius has no directivities."
"Experimental and theoretical studies of scattered and diffracted wave fields of reflecting spheres have been undertaken by a number of investigators in the past. The particular concern of this paper is the far-zone wave field scattered forward from such spheres, since the forward-scatter field pattern has been found to possess several interesting characteristics which have not been fully explored in previous studies. First, the forward-scatter field intensity of a sphere has the same magnitude and field pattern of a thin disc, or of a complementary circular aperture of the same dimensions as the projected area of the sphere. Second, the peak forward-scatter field intensity is considerably greater than the back-scatter intensity for a largea/\\lambdaratio. In the case of plane wave illumination, the sphere forward-field intensity is greater by the antenna gain calculated from the equivalent aperture. This paper, in addition to describing the basic theoretical background, confirms the existence of these characteristics by actual bistatic cross-section measurements at X-band. For example, it is shown experimentalty that the peak forward-scatter cross section of a reflecting sphere is 25 db greater than its back-scatter cross section fora/\\lambda = 3."
"Part I Theory, and Design of \"Macroscopic Gas\" A general theory for propagation through random distributions of arbitrary objects is applied to treat \"gases\" of spheres large compared to wavelength. In order to use microwaves to determine the range of applicability of the theory, and to facilitate its extension to \"dense gases\" and \"liquids\", a \"compressible macroscopic gas\" was engineered: turbulent air streams and collision processes provide the \"randomness\" in volume distributions of spheres. Statistical information required for interpreting microwave measurements is obtained from movie films. Part II Design of Range, and Experimental Data A 5-millimeter range for measuring scattering from extended random distributions of objects is described, and data on random volume distributions of several types of spherical scatterers are given. The time-average energy loss and the time-average phase shift of the coherent wave transmitted through the distribution are initially linearly proportional to the number of scatterers: with increasing concentration of scatterers the slopes of the attenuation and phase curves decrease, showing packing effects. The magnitude of the incoherent transmitted wave is also given."
"We investigate the fields produced by a line source located at the vertex of a right angled wedge, both of whose faces can sustain surface waves. The mathematical formulation of the problem involves the use of an impedance boundary condition. The impedance represents the effect of a corrugation of the surface, for example. It turns out that the radiated field is an elementary function of the observation angle. The surface wave amplitude tends to simple limiting values as its phase velocity tends to the velocity of propagation in free space, and also as the phase velocity is decreased without limit. The results are compared with similar results valid for a line source on an infinite plane. The method employed can be applied to treat wedges of more general angles."
"A simplified account of the mechanism of oscillation in cw, voltage-tunable magnetrons is given. Aspects of broadband microwave circuits for use with these tubes, typified by the GE Model Z5040 tube, are discussed. A small external circuit is described which resulted in spurious-free operation with 25-dbm\\pm 1.8-db power output over the 2- to 4-kmc frequency range and a tuning curve which is linear to within\\pm 12mc. Factors affecting higher-order-mode oscillations are discussed. Improved external microwave circuits are suggested."
"The circuit described here is designed to pro vide image rejection by phase cancellation in a 2- to 4-kmc receiving system. Infinite image rejection is possible when the demodulator circuit delivers to the IF preamplifiers two equal amplitude IF output signals which differ in phase, by 90 degrees. The demonstration model is of split-block coaxial construction and provides an average of 14 db of discrimination against a cw image signal over the required range. Much higher discrimination is available for image pulses. Dual rf demodulation, IF outphasing, and gating of the IF amplifier are combined to accomplish image rejection."
"This paper describes techniques which have been developed to facilitate the design of r-f multiplexers within the frequency range of 1.O to 15.0 kmc. By using techniques involving modern network synthesis, strip transmission line and waveguide filters which approximate Butter-worth or Tchebycheff functions can be easily realized. Strip transmission line filters are discussed which use tuning screws, physical variations of cavity lengths, and replaceable gaps. The waveguide filters consist of resonant cavities or resonant elements, depending on the application. Waveguide multiplexing is accomplished by using hybrid junctions, resulting in essentially no passband deterioration. An alternate technique utilizing a modified Fox type coupler in conjunction with a 3 db directional coupler is also presented. Strip transmission line 3 db directional couplers are used to multiplex the lower frequency bandpass filters."
"Slab lines consisting of a circular cylindrical inner conductor centrally located between two parallel conducting plates have recently been employed in the development of high-power microwave components. This paper presents an evaluation of the power handling capacity of such lines. The method employed leads to highly accurate results. A power capacity expression is derived in terms of the shape ratio and the characteristic impedance of the line. The variation of this power is plotted as a function of the characteristic impedance for a given outer conductor plate spacing. Finally, the power capacity of this line is compared to that of a coaxial transmission line."
"Coupling to spurious modes at imperfections in a long circular waveguide may cause the TE01 loss to increase and to fluctuate randomly with frequency. The statistical properties of the TE01 loss-frequency curve can be expressed in terms of the statistical properties of the random geometric imperfections of the guide and therefore in terms of the mechanical tolerances of the waveguide. Such imperfections as poor joints and elliptical waveguide have negligible effect under reasonable tolerances. However, random deviations of the guide axis from a straight line may have very serious effects under certain conditions. Experimental measurements verify these conclusions."
"In the construction of large-size microwave lenses, such as Luneberg lens, a lightweight, isotropic artificial dielectric with controllable refractive index is very much in need. A new class of artificial dielectrics is proposed in this paper which is believed to be well suited for such applications. The proposed dielectrics are not only light-weight, isotropic, and of controllable refractive index but are also believed to be favorable in comparison with other known types of artificial dielectric with regard to homogeneity, bandwidth, loss and cost. The basic innovation for this new class of artificial dielectrics is the random arrangement of a large number of artificially-made lightweight elements. These elements can be made in the form of two concentric spherical shells; the outer shell is made of a dielectric material and the inner shell is made essentially of a conducting material. Several modified forms are also discussed."
"This paper presents a method of measuring frequency in the microwave region by comparing it to a very stable low frequency standard. The technique described here was used to calibrate a cavity wavemeter for an experiment in microwave spectroscopy. The calibration procedure is based on the use of electron and nuclear resonances as they are observed in the presence of an applied r.f. field. A material containing spinning nuclei is inserted in an r.f. coil and the entire assembly is placed between the pole faces of an electromagnet which is capable of producing extremely homogeneous fields. The two resulting magnetic fields are then oriented at right angles to each other. By perturbing the magnetic field one can observe a resonance between the precessional frequencies of the nuclei and the applied r.f. field. The magnetic field is perturbed by means of a Helmholtz coil placed at right angles to the r.f. coil. Resonance takes place at about 14 mc in a 3300 gauss field when the sample consists of hydrogen nuclei or protons in water. By varying the magnetic field resonance will occur at a different frequency, and by varying it over a wide enough range a considerable spread of frequencies is obtained. These frequencies can be accurately measured by the use of an r.f. wavemeter or by an IF detection system. Once the frequency is known, the magnetic field strength may be calculated by using the following relationship:\\omega_{n} = \\gamma_{n}Hwhere\\omega_{n}= resonant frequency of nuclei in kc/sec,\\gamma_{n}= 4.25776 kc/gauss, andH= magnetic field strength in gauss. Commercial magnetometers are available to make these calibration curves and accuracies up to one part in10^{7}are achievable. The electron sample is used in a similar manner and the same equation holds except that the value of the resonant frequency and the proportionality constant are different. A good paramagnetic material which has narrow lines in the X-Band region is diphenyl-picryl-hydrazyl. Its proportionality constant is equal to 2.7994 mc/gauss. A sample of this material placed in a microwave cavity at a point of maximum H field and at right angles to an applied magnetic field of 3300 gauss will give a resonance line at 9238 mc. If the field strength of the magnet is known from previous measurement with the nuclear sample the frequency of the electron resonance line may be calculated from the relationship:\\omega_{e} = \\frac{2.7994 \\times 10^{3}}{4.25776} \\omega_{n}, or\\omega_{e} \\cong 655 \\omega_{n}. In order to instrument this experiment a Numar M-2 Precision Gauss-meter was used to calibrate the magnet. The frequency was measured by using an IF measuring technique. The microwave frequency was observed by sweeping a klystron through the frequency range of the \"low Q\" cavity which held the paramagnetic sample. The resonance line was observed in the display of the detected output power from this cavity. The wavemeter pip was superimposed on the resonance line and the frequency calibration was thus established. One must use extreme care in the magnet design so that good homogeneity can be measured throughout the region in which the sample is placed. If this requirement is met and if a good r.f. frequency measuring scheme is used, accurate microwave frequency measurements of better than one part in10^{7}may be obtained. The above method will appeal especially to the microwave spectroscopist because it makes use of the tools of his trade."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Resonance of higher order modes in waveguides can be advantageously used to make band rejection filters of unusual simplicity and low loss. The region where the resonance takes place can be obtained either by a change of cross section of the waveguide or by the inclusion of dielectrics. The relative advantages and experimental results obtained at 11 and 55 kmc are discussed. Finally it is shown how to use the resonance of converted modes to design channel dropping filters."
"In this paper, the authors present the results of an extensive investigation into the design and scale model testing of a dome-like, parabolic torus antenna, capable of providing one or more complete 360 degree rotating pencil beams in azimuth. Also this antenna can be used to provide multiple fixed pencil beams in both azimuth and elevation for instantaneous direction finding system requirements. The 360 degree parabolic torus reflector is formed of a dome shaped wire grid with 45 degree orientation of the grid elements. The use of a 45 degree linearly polarized feed horn enables the grid surface to be first, a reflector to energy transmitted from the feed horn which strikes it, and then, transparent to the energy traveling across the interior of the dome. Since the reflector dome is circular and therefore symmetrical in one plane, the feed and resultant beam may be scanned through 360 degrees continuously."
"A simple expression of the gain of a curved passive reflector antenna is given. It is found that the antenna system gain is maximum if the operating wavelength times the tower height is made equal to twice the product of the radii of the curved passive reflector and its illuminating parabolic antenna. It is shown that the effective radius of the illuminating antenna may be varied by moving its feed away from the focus toward the reflector, and that the gain of the curved passive reflector antenna may be maximized by this feed defocusing technique. This method of gain maximization is very useful in practice in view of the fact that the other three parameters cannot be easily varied without effect on other design factors of a microwave relay system."
"Operation of a logarithmically periodic radiating element over a reflecting cavity is described, and the limitations on frequency bandwidth are discussed. Methods of overcoming these limitations are presented. The most promising method involves the use of dielectric materials in the cavity. Data are presented on two operating models: one, designed for minimum size, covering a 3- to-1 frequency band with a maximum VSWR of 3 to 1, and the other, somewhat larger, covering a 4.5-to-1 band with a peak VSWR of 5 to 1. Both antennas exhibit essentially constant pattern characteristics over these bands."
"The experimental characteristics of a class of small, low and medium gain, broadband antennas are discussed. Theoretical analysis and comparison with more common antenna structures are also presented. Three basic antenna types are described. Patterns and VSWR characteristics of each type are shown. Combinations of these basic types were investigated. Included were structures having such characteristics as medium gain, uniform patterns, and balanced feeding over a wide frequency range. The important features of these antennas include small physical size and inherent broadband."
"Certain interesting properties appertain to spherically symmetrical lenses with indices of refraction which vary with the radius only. The most important member of this class, at least for microwave applications, is the Luneberg lens. It is the aim of this study to summarize and classify a large number of these lenses. With this approach, a new class of lenses of theoretical interest appears...the so-called higher-order lenses. Several applications are mentioned in this report."
"Calculations of expected transmission loss over a single obstacle path show that if conditions are right the loss will be less than if the obstacle were not there. Compared to diffraction loss over a smooth earth, this so-called \"obstacle gain\" can be appreciable. During 1957, a study and experimental investigation of the obstacle gain effect in the microwave region was completecd. This paper discusses experimental methods and results, describes siting and prediction techniques, and outlines the instrumentation employed in the program. Theoretical and measured losses were in good agreement."
"A1-1/4\\deg \\times 30\\degfan beam is generated over a 35% frequency band by a linear array of waveguide horns fed by a complex network of waveguide and rigid coaxial line power dividers. This network contains a variety of well-matched, broadband microwave components designed for this application. Low sidelobes are achieved by careful control of a heavily-tapered aperture distribution of the T. T. Taylor type. Statistical theory is employed to establish criteria for phase and amplitude errors across the array. Techniques used to correlate the phase and amplitude with antenna patterns are discussed. Both calculated and measured patterns are presented."
"A circularly symmetric array has been developed which shows promise for general pattern synthesis and for electrical scanning. The basic elements of the array are thin wire concentric circular loops. A loop of circumferencen\\lambda, n being an integer, carries a current standing wave which varies as\\cos n \\phi, where\\phiis the angle of rotation about the axis of the loop. The radiation field in the plane of the loop has a\\phidependence identical to that of the loop current. By properly exciting a pair of feeds on each of a number of loops it is possible to produce a desired radiation pattern or to rotate a beam in the\\phicoordinate. Off-axis radiation can be utilized or minimized, depending upon the application."
"The characteristics of radar pulse echoes from the moon are exemplified by a \"quasi-smooth\" moon theory. It is shown that these characteristics point strongly toward the use of5 \\musec pulses of X-band radiation for minimum distortion FM moon communication systems. Power considerations alone, however, would suggest that pulses of approximately30 \\musec are preferable. From both points of view, X-band is desirable over longer wavelengths."
"The results of an investigation of an airborne moving target radar, which substantially eliminate's platform motion noise and scanning noise, are summarized. A form of microwave data processing is used which is equivalent to a matched filter wherein the aperture is utilized as a spatial frequency filter. The microwave data of a simultaneous lobing (monopulse) antenna are processed by combining the even and odd illumination functions properly to stabilize the far field amplitude and phase radiation functions in space. The necessary conditions for elimination of these noise components from the cancelled residue are derived. Computation results of the effectiveness of the technique using realizable source illumination functions are presented with verification by experimental radiation pattern data. Far field phase diffraction patterns are presented to demonstrate how control of the source illumination function laterally shifts the antenna phase center. Because phase radiation patterns of large aperture antennas are unusual, the measurement technique is described."
"An S-band broadside antenna array is described in which each radiating element consists of a parabolic reflector which is fed by a helix radiator and local ground plane, so that the signal radiated (or susceptible of reception) is circularly polarized. Phase shifting is accomplished by mechanical rotation of each helix. If the various helices are rotated at multiple rates, the array then produces a beam which is narrow owing to the overall size of the array, and which swings rapidly, owing to the rapid rotation of individual helices. This report describes the pertinent design considerations, construction and measurements on such an antenna. The antenna has a principal-lobe half-power beamwidth of 0.5 degrees and is capable continuously of scanning a sector 4.2 degrees wide at a rate as high as 10 scans per second. This antenna is currently in operation at 3.12 kMc in connection with beyond-the-horizon propagation experiments to obtain data pertaining to propagation irregularities in the troposphere."
"An analysis is presented of the impedance properties of typical radiating elements in large arrays. An array of slots is treated first, where each slot is fed by a separate waveguide and the array radiates into a half-space. The slot spacing and progressive phasing in the array may be arbitrary, however. Both the slot and susceptance are evaluated; a periodic structure point of view is employed which permits a waveguide-type analysis of the half-space region. The results yield information on the efficiency of the array, its gain, its reactive content, its mismatch, and the variation of all of these quantities with arbitrary scan angle. By appropriate duality and normalization considerations, corresponding impedance expressions are obtained for an array of dipoles located in free space, backed by a ground plane, or in the environment of baffles. Of particular interest here is the change in the dependence on scan angle due to the presence of baffles or the ground plane. Comparison is made with the literature in certain special cases."
"Previous research on logarithmically periodic structures has provided frequency independent antennas with gains comparable to that of an aperture of one square wavelength. The purpose of this research has been to study frequency independent methods of arraying logarithmically periodic antennas so as to achieve higher gain. The theory and design procedure for an array of endfire log periodic elements is described. Design data for the element unit patterns and phase centers is presented. Experimental as well as theoretical array patterns are given. Gains of the order of 15 db over an isotropic radiator have been achieved and it is felt that up to 20 db gain is feasible. An element which will be useful for an array of broadside elements is also described."
"Doppler Navigational Systems are relatively new and have been only recently declassified. For this reason very little has been published on the new problems in design which a Doppler system imposes on the antenna. It is the purpose of this paper to enumerate these problems and describe an antenna which has been used to solve them most successfully. This is a two-dimensional or planar dual beam antenna consisting of slotted waveguide linear arrays. The dual beams are formed by a proper choice of spacing and ohasing of the slot radiators in each linear array. By a unique combination of the linear arrays, lobe switching can be accomplished very simply with an R. F. switch and hybrid. One of the advantages in system application of this antenna is the inherent frequency compensation it possesses which renders the measured velocity independent of transmitter frequency drifts."
"Emission from a pulsed Maser is described both qualitatively and quantitatively. Solutions of an appropriately modified pair of Bloch equations were computed, which describe the characteristics of both regenerative and superregenerative emission. Computations were also done that illustrate pulsed-Maser cycles and possible modes of operation for the amplication of a modulated input signal."
"A small, flush-mounted structure, serving as a radiator for two widely separated frequency bands, has been developed to fulfill the requirements for use in high-speed vehicles. The radiator can be utilized alone or as an element in an array to produce many different radiation distribution characteristics. The element was designed to withstand the severe environments encountered in modern airborne vehicles. It was also designed to withstand, without electrical breakdown, applications of large amounts of r-f power under ambient pressures corresponding to high altitudes."
"By proper interelement phase control, the beam of a stationary two-dimensional antenna array can be scanned throughout a volume in space. This scanning is demonstrated with an array of radiating waveguides fed by a unique arrangement which permits both independent phase control of every element and frequency scanning along one dimension of the array. Volumetric scanning is achieved by various combinations of these phase-shifting schemes. The measured beam position corresponds very favorably with theory for any given phase distribution. The adverse sidelobes appearing in the measured radiation patterns correspond to systematic errors. Methods for suppressing these systematic errors are discussed in detail, and encouraging experimental results are reported."
"The paper describes the electrical properties of high dielectric constant materials for use as end fire rod radiators propagating in the hybrid TE11mode at microwave frequencies. Particular attention is devoted to the radiation characteristics of these units such as the velocity of propagation, sidelobe level, beamwidths and the impedance match to a feeding structure. The experimental data is compared favorably to polystyrene rods with a dielectric constant of 2.5. The materials studied were Alite, an aluminum oxide ceramic, R-1 Ferrite as manufactured by the General Ceramics Corporation, Ceramic NPOT96 and Tamco Ticon C, a calcium titanate ceramic with a dielectric constant of 165. The small diameters necessary for optimum radiation characteristics with high dielectric constant rods reduces the weight of the antenna to the extent that they are practical at UHF frequencies. The power handling characteristics of the high dielectric constant rods are limited only by the temperature dependence of the loss tangent, which is characteristic of the ceramic materials. A seventeen element array of Alite rods is described and its radiation patterns indicated forX-band frequencies. Some data is also presented relating the conductance and susceptance of a ferrite rod to its depth of insertion in the narrow face of standardX-band waveguide."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings, Part 1, Antennas and Propagation; Microwave Theory and Techniques."
"The periodic motions of the particles within atomic and molecular systems have long been recognized as attractive possibilities for ultra-stable oscillators and precise timekeepers. The electromagnetic fields arising from the motions of charges provide the means for observing them. Hence, practical applications of atomic and molecular resonances have involved those classes of motions which have frequencies accessible to the technique of radio fields. Several possibilities have been under study during the past few years, and this afternoon I wi 11 describe one of these which is capable of great precision and which has been reduced to routine engineering practice."
"The successful design of a self-contained, sealed-off atomic beam tube in which cesium exhibits its resonance properties, has led to the development of a frequency generating system which provides an accuracy of 1 part in 109and a stability of better than 5 parts in 1010for the lifetime of the equipment. The system consists of a beam tube which resonates at 9192.631840 mc, a frequency source which generates an RF field at the resonance frequency to drive the beam tube, and a control loop for automatic correction of this source. Operation and features of the frequency standard are described, including photographs and recordings."
"At low pressures, antennas are susceptible to voltage breakdown. In the case of missiles, for example, there are indications that very low power is sufficient to initiate and maintain breakdown. Since it is essential that the system performance is not interrupted for high-altitude operation, an experimental investigation has been made to study the properties of antennas under breakdown conditions. When voltage breakdown occurs, the effect is fourfold: the input impedance is altered, the total radiated power is decreased, the radiation pattern is changed and the pulse shape is distorted. The effect on these properties of input power level, pulse width, pulse repetition rate, and pressure is discussed."
"A novel type antenna configuration called the \"Double-Rhombic\" has been designed and constructed for use with mobile radio relay systems operating in the frequency range from 400 to 600 mc. This configuration is formed by combining two rhombs whose planes form an angle with each other and which have a common diagonal. The input and output terminals of both rhombs are connected in parallel with each other. A 60 degree angle between planes was found to be optimum on the basis of full scale radiation pattern measurements. By proper choice of diameter and taper of the antenna conductors the input and terminating impedances were finally adjusted to a nominal 300 ohms. A 50 to 300 ohm compensated bifilar coil balun transformer was designed to transform from a 50 ohm coaxial input to the balanced antenna input. At the terminating end a similar balun was utilized in reverse to match to a 50 ohm, 5 watt coaxial termination. The antenna is capable of handling approximately 100 watts of power. Its gain compared to the standard Radio Relay Set AN/TRC-24 Band \"D\" dipole array varies from -2.0 to +2.5 db over the frequency band. The SWR was found to be less than 1.4 to 1. The antenna is so mechanically designed that it is relatively light, in view of its fairly large dimensions, being in the order of 25 lbs. It is constructed of thin-walled aluminum tubing and employs \"girder-type\" support in its fabrication. It has a very low wind drag when compared to other antennas utilized in the same range. The antenna is also capable of being assembled and disassembled in a very short time and therefore is very attractive for use in military applications for mobile radio relay operation in the UHF frequency range."
"The radiation characteristics of a flush-mounted, cardioid-pattern, direction-finding antenna are discussed. By use of the general equations for the far field of an annular slot in an infinite and perfectly conducting ground plane, expressions are derived for the radiation field of an antenna consisting of a single annular slot fed with a cylindrical waveguide excited with two orthogonal TE11modes and the TEM mode. The structure of the antenna and the method of exciting the desired modes are described. The effect of the cross-polarization component on the three-dimensional pattern is considered, and theoretical and experimental patterns are included for comparison."
"Filters can be designed with resonators approximately\\lambda_{0}/4long using, alternately, series and shunt coupling discontinuities. Advantages over filters with\\lambda_{0}/2resonators include: shorter length, second pass band is centered at3f_{0}instead of2f_{0}(f_{0}is design band center), mid-stop-band attenuation is higher, precision design for a prescribed insertion loss characteristic is tractable to greater bandwidths, can be made in \"bar transmission line\" form without dielectric supports. The design procedure used is on the insertion loss basis and incorporates an improved low-pass to band-pass transformation due to Cohn. The results of an experimental design are presented. Use of\\lambda_{0}/4direct-coupled resonators for mounting crystal diodes on strip transmission line bandpass filters is also dicussed. Experimental results obtained with a wide-band mixer-filter unit designed in this manner are presented. In these experiments the unit was operated so as to translate a wide-band of relatively low frequency microwave signals up to a higher microwave frequency band."
"This paper describes an electronically controllable, broadband gas discharge switch tube capable of rapidly switching high power pulsed microwaves at S-band. The tube consists of a section of rectangular waveguide sealed off at both ends by low-loss vacuum windows and containing a rare gas at a pressure of the order of 0.1 mm of Hg. The tube is 'fired' by the incident microwave power when the proper magnetic field is applied to it and the high electron density of the discharge acts like a short circuit at the input window of the tube. The tube's operation is based on the phenomenon of electron cyclotron resonance. An electron in a magnetic field B spirals around the flux lines with an orbital angular frequency given by\\omega_{B} = eB/m, whereeandmare the charge and mass of the electron. When a magnetic field is applied in a direction perpendicular to the electric field in the switch tube, two principal effects occur. First, the energy transferred from the microwave electric field to an electron exhibits a sharp resonance when\\omega_{B} = \\omega, where\\omegais the angular frequency of the microwaves. The magnetic field for which this occurs is called the cyclotron resonant field and has a value of around 1200 gauss at S-band. Secondly, the electron's diffusive motion transverse to the magnetic field is slowed down by the factor where(\\omega_{B}^{2} + \\nu_{c}^{2}) /\\nu_{c}^{2},where\\nu_{c}is the electron-neutral atom collision frequency. These effects determine the breakdown power vs. magnetic field characteristic. This characteristic was studied both theoretically and experimentally and has been used to develop a controllable high power switch tube. The tube was operated with a manually controlled magnetic field, but in principle can be made electronically controllable. The switching time depends upon the design of a modulated magnetic field source. Switching times of the order of 1 millisecond should be possible. The cold bandwidth of the tube depends upon the type of windows used and their separation. A 25/32\" long tube sealed off with Sylvania ATR 788 windows had a VSWR less than 1.25:1 over a 37% frequency band. Since the cyclotron resonant magnetic field is directly proportional to\\omega, the frequency variation of the switch parameters at constant magnetic field is essentially equivalent to their magnetic field variation at a constant frequency. Both the theoretical and experimental magnetic field dependence of the switch tube parameters were investigated. It was found that an overall bandwidth of more than 30% can be achieved without having to vary the magnetic field as the frequency is changed. A theoretical analysis was carried out to determine how the switching parameters, such as breakdown time, breakdown power, recovery time and arc loss vary with the type of gas filling, pressure, input power, magnetic field and geometry. The experimental data are in qualitative agreement with the theory. The following experimental results have been achieved in an argon filled switch tube operating at a frequency of 2.85 kmc: a) Power Switched: 250 KW peak; 250 W ave.;2 \\musec Pulse Width. b) High Level Firing Time:<2 \\times 10^{-8}seconds. c) Arc Loss: 0.4 db. d) Low Level Insertion Loss: < 0. 1 db. e) Isolation: 60 db."
"Signals propagated by meteor trails from a transmitter at Stanford, California have been monitored in San Diego. The duty cycle, percent of time that received signal exceeds a given threshold level, is analyzed in terms of its variation with threshold level at a fixed time and its variation during the day at a fixed threshold level. The duty cycle varies with threshold level A approximately as 1/A^{m}. This variation is similar to the distribution of peak amplitudes of the signal bursts. Overdense trails account for most of the duty cycle and the diurnal variation of the duty cycle follows the diurnal variation of the rates of occurrence of signal bursts except for an enhancement in duty cycle around noon."
"The idealized insertion loss characteristics of a band separation filter is shown in Figure 1 with a block diagram of the physical configuration. Filters of this type have been built using lumped constant elements, however, these are not suitable at UHF when power handling capacity of the order of a kilowatt is required. In this paper the design of a band separation filter utilizing transmission line components is discussed. The results of VSWR, insertion loss and power tests performed on a filter of this type are presented."
"In order to obtain filters capable of handling very high power, the use of radial lines and uniform line discontinuities was investigated as the most promising approach. In this connection, it was necessary to consider equivalent circuit and interaction effects for H-mode radial line mated at each end to uniform TE10waveguide for taper angles of 45 degrees. It was found that the equivalent circuit was valid for taper angles of 45 degrees, and that for engineering design purposes the interaction could be neglected. The author utilized the 45° tapers and the uniform lines to design a high power microwave filter capable of handling 700 kilowatts at 10 pounds pressure in 0.900 by 0.400 I.D. waveguide. The design procedure for a multi-element filter is described utilizing a partly graphical approach."
"A new type of \"around-the-mast\" rotary joint is described. This rotary joint features low insertion loss, negligible rotational variations in transmission characteristics, and low SWR over a broad band of frequencies. This device is unique in that any reasonable number of identical units can be used in combination as a microwave slip-ring system, thereby offering improved performance of multi-beam rotary antenna systems."
"It is customary to develop approximate solutions to electromagnetic scattering problems by assuming monochromatic sources and imposing further conditions on the ratio of physical dimensions to wavelength. If the ratio of physical dimension to wavelength is large, the solution is obtained as a perturbation of the geometrical or physical optics solution. If the ratio is small, the solution differs little from that predicted by Rayleigh scattering. It is not usually possible to obtain a single approximate solution which yields the correct result for the limiting cases of zero and infinite source frequencies. This paper presents a method of approximating the exact solution to electromagnetic scattering problems for any source frequency by an approximation to the impulsive response of the scatterer. This approximation is chosen so as to yield the correct solution for the limiting cases of zero and infinite source frequency. The relation between this approach and the physical optics approximation as well as the quasi-static approximation is discussed. The application of this technique is illustrated for several types of scatterers, and the results are compared with those obtained by standard methods."
"The image line surface wave antenna consists of a two dimensional array of slots in a ground plane which are excited by a surface wave. The surface wave is guided over the plane in a non-radiating transmission mode by a thin filament of dielectric. The currents in the transmission mode drive the slots which can be so placed and oriented as to offer complete control of the illumination function of the array in both phase and amplitude. As a consequence, almost any antenna pattern shape can be produced. The array is inherently flush mountable and can make a radome unnecessary. Because a single mode drives all the slots, a power dividing and phasing network is not required."
"Some recent advances in ferromagnetic resonance theories are first briefly reviewed. It is then shown how these theories can be applied to the understanding of the power limiting process using ferrites. The \"spin-wave\" buildup mechanism under pulse operating conditions is described. The design problems of a waveguide ferrite power limiter is considered in some detail. Finally, operat-data from an actual power limiter using ferrites is presented to substantiate the behavior predicted by theory."
"Research on new types of broadband logarithmically periodic antenna structures is reported. The antennas have pattern and impedance characteristics which are essentially independent of frequency over theoretically unlimited bandwidths. Bandwidths of ten to one are readily achieved in practice. Structures are described which provide linearly polarized omnidirectional, bidirectional and unidirectional patterns as well as circularly polarized bidirectional and unidirectional patterns."
"A unidirectional quantum-mechanical amplifier has been developed in which the amplifying medium consists of a beam of ammonia molecules passing through, in turn, two separated resonant cavities. The cavities are electrically isolated from one another so that the only coupling is provided by the molecular beam. Unlike the various single-cavity amplifiers constructed in other laboratories, in which a common coupling point for input and output signals necessitates the inclusion of isolators or circulators to separate the two signals, the amplifier described herein affords a natural isolation of input and output with independent control of loadings. After a discussion of the physical principles underlying the mechanism of amplification in a two-cavity molecular beam amplifier, a simplified theory of the operation of the two-cavity amplifier is presented, outlining the parameters which influence power gain and noise Figure. The details of an experimental amplifier are described and the results of gain and noise figure measurements are reported."
"The current military requirements for the detection of missiles at ranges of 2000 to 3000 miles has led to the need for high-gain antennas at wavelengths of approximately one meter. Because of the unwieldy size of such antennas, the authors have been investigating antenna types in which the beam directional control can be accomplished by switching the feed point rather than by moving the entire structure. Three main large-scale types have been considered: a flat \"pancake\" structure in which surface wave radiation is utilized, a luneberg lens structure utilizing artificial and loaded dielectrics, and a spherical structure employing a unique polarization relationship to provide a folded paraboloidal reflector effect."
"When a helical beam antenna is used as a primary source of circularly polarized waves to illuminate a reflector, it is necessary to know the location of its phase center. The first part of this paper formulates an analytical method of determining the phase-center location of helical beam antennas based upon the expressions of the far-zone diffraction fields. Computations have been carried out for typical cases for bothE_{\\theta}andE_{\\phi}components in the principal planes. The second part presents the experimental results. Dependence of the location of the phase center on the number of turns, the pitch angle and the size of the ground plane is discussed."
"The purpose of this paper is to present design curves and formulas that can be used to design the cap-loaded folded monopole antenna. As a result of a theoretical study and measurements made on the top-loaded folded antenna, it appears possible to build efficient antennas as low as .03 wavelength high with resonant resistance of 50 ohms and a half-power bandwidth of 8%. The electrical characteristics of the antenna are a function of height, size of the top hat, the diameters of the driven and folded conductors, and the spacing between them. Data will be presented to show the effect on the resonant height, resonant resistance, and bandwidth when these parameters are varied. The most important features of this antenna are its small height, high resonant resistance, and relative broad bandwidth; specifically, the bandwidth varies from 8% to 30% with heights from .03 wavelength to .09 wavelength. The resonant resistance may be chosen at will by varying the ratio of diameters of the folded to driven conductors. Practical values are 1 to 50 ohms for an antenna height of .03 wavelength and 20 to 300 ohms for .09 wavelength."
"A program has been initiated for the purpose of investigating the feasibility, advantages, and limitations of meteor scatter communications at ranges of less than 500 miles. Almost all prior experimental and theoretical investigation had been centered on either radar (backscatter) or maximum (1200 mile) circuits. Two transportable stations have been instrumented. The transmitter consists of a 1 kw linear amplifier excited from a stable frequency shifted, single side band keyer, generating simulated standard speed teletype signals. The receiving station uses space diversity antennas and special receiving techniques based on synchronous detection correlation schemes. Tests are being conducted at various ranges using frequencies in the 30-60 mc band from sites in the northeastern part of the United States."
"Results are given from an experimental study of VKF propagation in the extreme distance range for scattering from the lower ionosphere. Signal intensity at 36.0 Mc/s was measured continuously for a year over the 1411 mile path from St. Johns, Newfoundland, to Terceira Island, The Azores, using high transmitting and receiving sites. The median transmission loss is approximately 13 decibels greater than for the same system operated over the 773 mile path Cedar Rapids, Iowa, to Sterling, Virginia; this ratio is interpreted in terms of the geometrical restriction of the effective scattering volume. Less pronounced diurnal and seasonal variation is related to occluding by earth curvature of scattering from heights below about 80 Km. Continuous \"height gain\" observations give evidence of variation of scattering height diurnally and seasonally. Results are given on the nature of the signal fading, space-correlation, realizable gain from arrays having extensive vertical aperture, and polarization effects."
"Single-stage amplifiers using available transistors have been designed for high stability and found to have adequate gain and very low tuning interaction. Further consideration of these results shows that some very simple conditions are satisfied at resonance when the single stage is driven and terminated to produce the maximum gain for a given stability. In order that the previous results be of general use, some effective method of cascading must be developed. This problem can be greatly simplified by requiring that all stages have the same stability at resonance, realizing that the stability off resonance may not be the same as the resonant value. Three methods of cascading have been developed on this basis. One method uses dissipative coupling and appears to be the most practical method of cascading. This method is developed by requiring that each stage of the cascaded amplifier be driven and terminated at resonance under the same conditions for which a single stage would obtain the maximum power gain for a given stability. The actual intermediate-stage gain is compared with the maximum single-stage gain. For practical designs, this difference is less than 6 db. The difference per stage is even less than this calculated value when one considers that for n stages, only (n-l) dissipative interstage coupling networks are required. Thus, for a practical two-stage amplifier design, the gain per stage is less than 3 db lower than the maximum single stage transducer gain. "
"Presents an abstract of the conference paper."
"Presents an abstract of the conference paper."
"THE VALUABLE PROPERTIES of transistors as efficient switching elements are well known and the use of transistors in digital circuits has become widespread. An allied area receiving much less attention is the use of transistors in ac signal switching. This paper discusses the transistor characteristics required for bilateral switching and circuit techniques developed to exploit these characteristics."
"A bilateral balanced solid-state gate, suitable for use in a pulse amplitude modulated time-division telephone switching system, is described. The gate, consisting of two junction transistors and a pulse-transformer, is capable of handling the currents required to produce a low-loss connection when operated for two microseconds every one-hundred twenty-five microseconds. The need for such gate arises with the extension of time-division techniques from their well known applications in multiplex transmission to their less obvious but equally worthwhile applications in the switching of transmission paths in a telephone office. The two chief problems that time-division switching raises are in keeping track of associated pairs of lines while waiting for their assigned time slots, since sampling is no longer in unchanging sequence, and in providing low loss bi-directional sampling within a time slot to permit two-wire operation without expensive analogue pulse amplification in the common medium. This paper describes a simple gate that solves the latter problem."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"A PHOTOELECTRONIC CIRCUIT consists of a combination of electroluminescent cells (EL) and photoconductors (PC), interconnected by electrical as well as optical paths. This paper confines itself to a study of switching circuits in which the inputs and outputs take the form of electrical signals, and light is used as an intermediate actuating source."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"DIELECTRIC AMPLIFIERS and modulators that use voltage-sensitive capacitors have been extensively described. In general, the capacitors employed were constructed of ferroelectric materials. This paper describes a dc-to-ac converter that employs the voltage-sensitive capacitance of silicon-junction diodes."
"It can be seen that the leakage currents in a common emitter triode are determined by the input circuitry and quiescent bias levels. In all cases, the lower leakage current limit is approximated by ICBO. With triode common emitter circuitry, it is difficult to attain low values of circuit leakage without severely lowering the normal stage gain. The power tetrode differs from the triode in that it has two isolated base connections, making it possible to insert the signal through one base while using the remaining base to establish the desired no-signal leakage condition. Thus, if both bases of the tetrode are tied together, the unit behaves like a triode. If the base is connected to the emitter, the zero signal leakage current equals ICES irrespective of the impedance level of the other base, and the transfer function of the signal base is made more linear at a somewhat reduced level and exhibits a slight input threshold. If one base is restrained by a voltage equal to the floating potential, the common emitter leakage current is reduced to ICBO, and the transfer function remains essentially the same. Further restraint on the base will cause the input threshold to increase, a feature desirable in certain switching and control applications. Even greater advantage can be achieved with a tetrode using a temperature-sensitive bias source because, with a tetrode, the biasing circuit does not reduce the gain by shunting the input circuit and, because of the isolation, the temperature-sensing unit will not be affected by the input signal level. A practical direct-cuoupled audio amplifier is presented to illustrate the mechanisms that may be used to achieve superior performance, stability, and linearity with a minimum of expensive components. A class-A single-ended circuit is used to illustrate the linearity of the device under large signal conditions. The common-emitter cascade is chosen because of its inherent high gain and its amenability to direct coupling."
"The single common-emiter transistor amplifier fed from a resistive source exhibits a minimum noise figure, when the source resistance has an optimum value. A generalized amplifier is next shown that is fed from a complex source impedance and containing a single common-emitter transistor in the first stage. It is assumed that noise in succeeding stages is negligible. Various feedback paths to either the base or emitter of the first transistor are shown, and an effective shunt input resistor with thermal noise and an effective emitter degeneration resistor with thernlal noise are given. If the signal source is purely resistive, analysis of the circuit shows that a minimum noise figure is obtainable with an optimum source resistance. If the source is a complex impedance, the quantity of interest is the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) at the output of the amplifier. This quantity will in general be dependent on the signal frequency chosen, and on the gain characteristics of the entire amplifier. An expression for SNR in the circuit is given. Again, the result is independent of any feedback, except insofar as the feedback affects the gain characteristic. It is to be emphasized that the criteria for best noise performance are in no way connected with the criteria for maximum power transfer from the source."
"With the appearance of transistorized plug-in circuits came the need for power supplies compatible in physical construction and reliability. A series-voltage regulator was reexamined with an open mind to see what a new approach would produce. The TOPER regulator presented here has a typical output characteristic. The heart of the TOPER regulator is a modified emitter-coupled difference amplifier. A short circuit out in the circuitry being powered would produce something like 0.5 ohm (line 2) which will draw about 100 ma; recovery is automatic. A complete loading cycle from no-load to short circuit and back to no-load will show a hysteresis in the output voltage."
"A 70-Mc IF amplifier using seven diffused-base germanium transistors is described. The insertion gain is 90 db, with bandwidth greater than 15 mc, flat to within ±0.3 db. The +12-dbm output is stabilized against change in input level or temperature by 35 db of AGC and the noise figure is 5 db. A digital computer was used as a tool in the circuit design. A rough first approximation to the desired design was made on the basis of the measured transistor parameters neglecting feedback and frequency effects. The changes necessary were then determined experimentally, and the computer was used to verify the goodness of the design and to determine the sensitivity of the adjustable parameters. The four-terminal-network parameters of the transistors in the common-emitter connection were measured at frequencies and operating points of interest with the aid of coaxial jigs. These parameters, together with circuit-element values, were put into a computer program based on a cascade of one-stage circuits. Modified parameters can be calculated from these if the transistor is to be used in a connection other than common-emitter. The computer then calculated the desired circuit characteristics. Good agreement has been obtained with experimental results."
"A new semiconductor device, called a Dynistor diode, has been developed which can be used in control circuits to provide high output power with a minimum number of devices. The V-I characteristic of the Dynistor diode is shown. When biased in the reverse direction, the Dynistor blocks the flow of current until the breakdown voltage VB is reached. When the breakdown voltage VB and breakdown current fu are exceeded, a sharp voltage breakdown occurs and the device voltage drops to a very low value. When the Dynistor current is reduced below its sustaining value (IS), breakdown ceases and the device reverts to its blocking condition. When applied to off-on controllers, the Dynistor is used as a power switch in a low-voltage, high-current circuit. A lowpower control circuit, which supplies a voltage in excess of the Dynistor breakdown voltage, controls its switching action. Since the Dynistor turn-on time is less than 0.1 microsecond, either dc or very short pulses can be used for control. When half-wave rectified ac is used for the power source, the device turns off automatically once each cycle. The characteristics of the Dynistor diode which make it particularly suitable as a power switch include high breakdown voltage, low hyperconductive drop, inherent bistable action, short switching time, and high current carrying capacity. Unlike the transistor, the Dynistor diode requires control power only while it is switching and the control power required is determined by the device breakdown characteristics alone, regardless of load current. Since Dynistors have been made which block voltages in excess of 200 volts, circuits can be designed where the power Dynistor switches an output relay at the line potential thereby eliminating the need for a 60-cycle transformer capable of carrying the load current. "
"Presents an abstract of the conference paper."
"Presents an abstract of the conference paper."
"Presents an abstract of the conference paper."
"THE OPERATION of a junction transistor in the avalanche mode bears a strong resemblance to that of the point-contact transistor. Unfortunately, the resemblance extends to the variation in characteristics between specimens, and this paper presents a simple method of designing avalanche circuits, based on a method developed for point-contact circuits, which will operate with any transistor without requiring adjustment. As an example the basic avalanche circuits are extended to an oscilloscope which uses a total of 11 transistors."
"THE PHENOMENON of carrier storage in junction transistors has generally been looked upon as one of their undesirable characteristics. Many authors have described both the effect and circuits to minimize it, but it is the aim of this paper to show that carrier storage when controlled can provide a three-terminal temporary memory for digital computing circuits of a type not provided by any other single electronic component."
"TWO DISTINCT LINES of attack are available for advancing the frontier in high-speed switching work. The most straightforward, but not necessarily easiest, method is to develop faster devices. This paper is devoted to the second method, that of devising circuits which better utilize the capabilities of existing devices."
"This work suggests switching circuit configurations applicable to high-speed data processing systems and utilizing graded-base transistors. The article is oriented toward obtaining the maximum performance (speed wise) from transistors as a circuit means to a system end, a problem that arises often in large system-minded laboratories, and therefore emphasis is placed upon fundamental considerations such as total circuit performance, flexibility, availability of components; etc. and not exact circuit values and detailed circuit analysis."
"Presents an abstract of the conference paper."
"Presents an abstract of the conference paper."
"THIS PAPER presents a critical comparison of the major circuit techniques employing solid-state components to perform the arithmetic functions in digital computers. The presentation is in three sections. The first considers the requirements which are necessary and sufficient to provide a useful circuit technique. The second section discusses an approach to the classification of the various techniques, establishes the evaluation criteria to be used in the final section, and presents illustrative examples in the form of a synthetic chronological development. The third section gives a more detailed survey of the design problems and performance characteristics of a number of techniques."
"SIGNIFICANT POWER gains have been achieved with junction diodes utilizing their reverse transient characteristics. The diode amplifier is supplied with power from an ac source whose frequency is the same as, or higher than, the modulating signal frequency. This requirement puts the diode amplifier in the category of magnetic and dielectric amplifiers."
"Presents an abstract of the conference paper."
"THE APPLICATION of transistor circuits to computers has been primarily in the digital field. The purpose of this paper is to indicate that they may also be applied to the simulation of analogue functions. The example, which is illustrated, is a four-quadrant multiplier, where the particular characteristics of semi-conductor devices facilitate the design. The following paper discusses the operations involved in multiplication and the particular circuits that perform these operations."
"Summary form only given. Shot noise in semiconductor diodes and triodes is white at low frequencies and increases at high frequencies. The simple assumption that fluctuations in electron-hole-pair creations, motions, and recombinations are perfectly random permits a satisfactory understanding of this noise."
"Having demonstrated the overall feasibility of pulse circuitry in a parallel-organized computer, the next requirement was to build pulse-circuits for a model application. To guide the engineer in this effort, design ground-rules were established. A -10-volt power supply and 10-megapulse operation were immediately determined. An additional requirement specified that the circuits use high-speed PNP drift transistors and be capable of driving six 70-ohm coaxial lines. Pulses were 1-volt negative 1/2-sine wave, with a maximum width of 40 millimicroseconds. To optimize life, junction-temperature was limited to 60°C. A summary of the design ground-rules is shown."
"Transistor Resistor Locic (TRL) merits consideration as a form of semiconductor logical circuitry for data-processing systems as a consequence of its inherent simplicity, reliability and economy. The basic TRL building block and flip-flop are shown. The building block is seen to consist of a resistor OR gate followed by an inverting transistor amplifier. Any combinational logic function can be implemented using this block alone. The flip-flop consists of two building blocks connected back to back. The TRL circuit has found application in several relatively slow-speed digital systems. It is the purpose of this paper to present the results of a new look at TRL using several new high-speed, high-gain transistors. It is shown that the excellent properties of these transistors can be effectively exploited with TRL circuits operating economically and reliably at the moderately high speeds required in many digital systems. The analysis which follows primarily involves current relationships, since the operation of TRL circuits involves the switching of nearly constant current sources."
"Presents an abstract of the conference paper."
"Presents an abstract of the conference paper."
"Presents an abstract of the conference paper."
"Presents an abstract of the conference paper."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to Society memebers as well as the rest of the engineering community."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"This paper discusses the relation of room dimensions and speaker placement to the quality of low-frequency sound reproduction. Dimensional ratios for home music rooms are suggested."
"The permanent magnet is considered as a component for changing the form of energy. A brief review of the basic physics of the permanent magnet is included with emphasis on the nature of the magnetization process and how the permanent magnet functions in establishing external magnetic field energy. Presently available characteristics of permanent magnets and future possibilities for improving the efficiency of the permanent magnet are discussed as well as the relationships between audio device performance and the unit properties of permanent magnets. In using the permanent magnet the choice of unit properties, volume, geometry, and magnetic circuit arrangement greatly influence the end performance and efficiency of audio devices. As an aid in exploiting the optimum combination of these variables, an electrical analog system using lumped constants is introduced. Data on leakage permeance are presented for the more widely used permanent magnet arrangements in audio work. The analog technique is of general interest from the viewpoint of understanding the energy relationships involved in the efficient application of the permanent magnet and as an aid in predicting permanent magnet performance on a firm engineering basis."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The results of a redetermination of the equal-loudness contours for pure tones, carried out at the National Physical Laboratory, Teddington, England, are discussed in relation to earlier data. The new measurements cover a wider area of the auditory diagram and were obtained by a comparatively large number of listeners. This has enabled the results to be classified into sex and age groups. The latter factor is shown to dominate high-frequency hearing. Some data are presented on the reliability of laboratory measurements of loudness and on certain features of a well-known discrepancy between the thresholds of hearing under free-field and earphone listening conditions."
"A method of calculating the nonlinear behavior of class A common emitter transistor amplifiers from linear small signal measurements is given. Experimental results, obtained with a 500-milliwatt p-n-p alloy junction transistor, show the second and third harmonic distortion as a function of emitter bias current and driving source resistance. Distortion, calculated from small signal measurements, is shown for comparison."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A \"compatible\" stereophonic record is one which will reproduce full stereophonic sound when played on a stereophonic phonograph and will be indistinguishable from an LP record when played on a monaural phonograph. Such a record may be obtained by recording the sum signal S=L+R as lateral modulation and the difference signal D=L-R as vertical modulation and suitably modifying D so that the tracking possibilities of monaural pickups are not exceeded."
"Modulation noise remains as a major limitation on the dynamic signal-to-noise ratio obtainable in a magnetic recording system. The sources of modulation noise in magnetic tape recordings have been investigated by reducing to the smallest possible value the inherent noise of the recording and playback equipment used in the tests. Possible causes of modulation noise are then independently introduced and their effects measured. The results of these measurements indicate that when recording and reproducing equipment is properly adjusted, the major source of modulation noise is spurious amplitude modulation of the recorded signal by variations in the physical and magnetic properties of the recording tape. The amount of this modulation noise is found to increase above the value obtained with a dc signal, in proportion to the recorded signal frequency. Recommendations are made for measurement of amplitude modulation noise as a check on tape quality and on those adjustments which affect amplitude modulation noise. This measurement is in addition to the measurement of frequency modulation noise commonly known as \"flutter.\""
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to Society memebers as well as the rest of the engineering community."
"The February, 1958, issue of the Journal of the Acoustical Society of America contains a number of contributions which may interest the members of PGA. The January, 1958, issue of the Journal of the Audio Engineering Society contains a number of articles stemming from the 1957 AES Convention."
"In this study the authors try to define the instrumentation and measurement procedures for the acoustic calibration of loudspeakers. They give some indication of the characteristics of the instrumentation and then specify the measurements to be taken in order to determine the acoustic (performance) quality of a loudspeaker. They review successively the following problems: frequency response characteristic, directivity, harmonic and intermodulation distortion, impedance characteristic, efficiency, and transient response. For each they propose a method of measurement and give some practical examples of results obtained."
"Some of the basic factors involved in the design of transistor RC amplifiers are considered. Particular emphasis is placed on operating point stabilization and its relation to such factors as gain, battery drain, and distortion. The stabilization factor employed here is a measure (in terms of per cent) of the stabilization contributed by the stabilization circuitry. Only the fundamental common-emitter connection is discussed."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to Society memebers as well as the rest of the engineering community."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A direct radiator moving coil loudspeaker driven by an amplifier whose output impedance approaches the negative of the blocked voice-coil impedance can be made to exhibit extended low-frequency response with reduced distortion. The results are not to be confused with the effects of a negative resistance source. In a typical case, neutralization of 70 per cent of the blocked voice-coil impedance completely damps the cone resonances as well as substantially reducing the nonlinear distortion below resonance. When the amplifier is compensated for the failing radiation resistance at low frequencies uniform output can be obtained to any arbitrary low frequency limited only by the ultimate power-handling capability of the amplifier and speaker. In this system, no additional amplifier power is required at frequencies down to the speaker resonance; additional power is required below that point."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to Society memebers as well as the rest of the engineering community."
"An electrical signal recorded on magnetic tape can be relatively easily transposed in frequency by reproducing it at a tape speed different from the tape speed at which it was originally recorded. Transposition into the audio-frequency range is most frequently employed for convenience because of the ready availability of indicating and analyzing equipment in that frequency range. Examples where this technique has been helpful are cited."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement: Tapescripts are tape-recorded talks with accompanying slides. They are loaned by the IRE-PGA Tapescripts Committee, and are available. The only cost is the return postage on the material. It is very important that the program chairman request a tapescript in advance so he may review the material and prepare his program."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Summary form only given, as follows. A session on \"Stereophonic Disk Recording and Audio\" was held during the IRE Canadian Convention and Exposition on October 9, 1958, in the Satellite Room of the Automotive Building, Exhibition Park, Toronto, Canada. Papers were afso llows. \"Tracing Distortion in Stereophonic Disc Recording,\" M.S. Corrington and T. Marakami, RCA Victor Co. Ltd., Camden, N.J. \"Certain Problems and Solutions in the Recording and Reproduction of Stereophonic Discs,\" B.B. Bauer, Columbia Broadcasting System Laboratories, N. Y. \"Design Consideration in the Useo f the Stereophonic Disc Cartridge,\" Howard Durbin, Electrovoice, Buchanan, Mich. \"A Double Cardioid Stereophonic Microphone,\" A. Jamroz and G.B. Thompson, Northern Electric Co., Belleville, Ont., Canada."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to Society memebers as well as the rest of the engineering community."
"Applications of scientific methods and electronic instrumentation techniques to the study of a nonelectronic musical instrument are discussed. It is shown how findings obtained have resulted in better understanding of the physical basis for tone generation and modification, leading to improvements and evaluations based upon engineering principles rather than upon empirical methods of the past. Physical and psychological aspects are presented in terms of communication engineering concepts. The nature and characteristics of piano tone are described, as well as other phases of this unique field of \"musical engineering.\""
"Application of speech bandwidth compression techniques to voice communications provides the promise of more efficient utilization of the available radio spectrum and the possibility of improved performance of noisy, long distance communications links. That significant potential gain exists is evident from the fact that the information rate required for transmission of the conventional speech signal is approximately 24,000 bits per second, whereas that for transmission of the equivalent word-intelligence content by means of teletype is 75 bits per second. The paper presents brief descriptions of several speech bandwidth compression techniques which are currently being employed or investigated to achieve varying degrees of compression. Also a method of estimating the influence of signal-to-noise ratio on a communications link employing such compression techniques is presented."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to Society memebers as well as the rest of the engineering community."
"The three most common methods of measuring non-linear distortion in audio equipment are the harmonic method in which harmonics of a single sinusoidal input signal are measured; the SMPTE, or modulation, method in which the modulation of a high audio frequency by a low frequency is measured; and the CCIF, or difference frequency, method in which the beat note between two closely spaced frequencies is measured. These methods are discussed with particular reference to the behavior which may be expected in applications where the equipment under test includes pre-emphasis or de-emphasis networks, or where the distortion is symmetrical. It is shown that in a number of cases a more satisfactory method for use at the higher audio frequencies would be the measurement of the third-order component, rather than the second, produced in the CCIF method. A modification of the CCIF method using a sharp-cutoff low-pass filter is described which is capable of measuring both second- and third-order components, it is then shown that an instrument for this new method and the standard SMPTE method have many elements in common and that one instrument could be devised to make both forms of tests. The discussion is illustrated with the results of measurements made on a simulated distortion generator and on actual samples of audio equipment."
"Part of a modulation-noise problem encountered in two-channel stereo disk recording is shown to have its source not in the recording channel but in the geometry of the record-playback system. A relation is given to show the order of magnitude of this effect and some of the possible means of improvement are indicated."
"A simple method is described for obtaining a figure of merit for response of magnetic recorder due to core losses and electrical characteristics."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A description is given of the construction and characteristics of a versatile and novel semiconductor device, called a \"Thyristor,\" that may be operated as a bistable element switching to a high conductivity mode or as a more conventional high-frequency transistor, either in switching or amplifying circuitry. The Thyristor has thyratron-like characteristics that closely approach those of an ideal switch. However, the Thyristor, unlike the thyratron, can be turned off readily by the control element. The open-state current is about 2 microamperes and the closed-state voltage drop is 0.3 to 0.5 volt. The unit can be switched into the high conductance mode in less than 0.1 microsecond with a pulse energy of 10-4ergs. It can be turned off with a pulse energy of about 10-1ergs in times of the order of 0.1 microsecond. The bistable operation depends upon a new type of semiconductor contact that collects holes at low current densities and injects electrons at high current densities. The electron alpha of the injector increases as a power law function of current and greatly aids in obtaining device reproducibility. These injector properties can be described in terms of a tunneling mechanism."
"An analysis is given of a new type of solid-state phenomena which appears as an abrupt transition to a low voltage circuit mode at high current densities under appropriate conditions. It is shown that a knowledge of this effect makes possible not only the consideration of a new family of thyratron devices, but also an understanding of heretofore inexplicable failures that have appeared in the form of collector-to-emitter shorts under particular circuit conditions."
"An investigation of the electrical properties of four-region silicon structures, with electrical contact made to both outer regions and to one of the inner base regions is described briefly. A satisfactory analytical understanding of the device has been achieved, but for simplicity the experimental results presented are discussed in nonmathematical and purely physical terms. The fuller theoretical discussion is being prepared for submission to the PROCEEDINGS OF THE IRE. In many respects, the behavior of this three-terminal device is found to be similar to the conventional thyratron."
"Two-terminal and three-terminal germanium power switching devices have been developed, utilizing a metal semiconductor contact as an electron injector in a multijunction device. The principles of operation, fabrication techniques, and electrical characteristics of this new device are discussed. Devices capable of switching up to 25 amperes and blocking up to 350 volts have been fabricated and applied to power control circuits. The low impedance voltage drop is of the order of 0.5 volt and the dynamic resistance is a few hundredths of an ohm. A switch-on time less than 0.1 microsecond has been measured with a switch-off time of the order of microseconds."
"The effects have been examined of small changes of barrier height on the reverse current of high inverse voltage germanium point-contact diodes. The barrier height was varied by changing the ambient gas. The experimental results are given quantitative interpretation by a field emission theory in the region from about 10 volts to about 150 volts, where other effects become important. Examination of some 50 diodes has shown that diodes which draw low reverse currents behave according to this theory."
"A method is described for determining on a bridge the nine elements of an equivalent circuit for junction transistors which is accurate at both low and high frequencies. These nine-device parameters, which include the collector-to-base interelectrode capacitance, could be determined in four independent steps of a multiposition switch, but for the sake of limiting the complexity of the equipment, five steps have been employed. All measurements are based entirely on the equivalent circuit and not on the choice of a particular set of four-pole quantities such as thez, yofhparameters. Fortuitously, the transistor terminations indicated are those most easily achieved in practice, viz., a short circuit on the collector side and an open circuit on the base (or emitter) side."
"A method is discussed for determining the parameters of a nonlinear device by measurement of the harmonics generated in the output when a sinusoidal wave is applied at the input. Formulas are developed, in terms of the measured quantities, for determining the coefficients of the power series describing the input-output characteristic and the coefficients of the Fourier series giving the harmonic conversion transconductance."
"The development of closures for electron devices often requires that leaks far below the usual range of the helium mass spectrometer-type leak detector be localized and measured. It has been possible, by using new techniques, to extend the sensitivity of detection several orders of magnitude beyond the normal limit of the instrument. Two highly sensitive methods with similar techniques but separate sensitivity ranges are discussed. In seals similar to those of color television picture tube closures, it is noted that the character of small leaks is such that long times are required to reach a constant maximum rate of helium leakage. Methods for predicting this maximum rate from early observations are discussed. Methods for establishing procedures necessary for sensitivity requirements for any particular seal type are given. Time and sensitivity limitations are discussed. Increases in the sensitivity of detection of the order of 40,000 are attained easily. Leaks as small as 1.5 × 10-10µliters/second have been detected and measured in 22-inch rectangular color television picture tube closure seals. In one year, a leak of this size would only cause an increase in pressure in an ungettered tube of 10-7mm Hg. This represents an increase in the sensitivity of detection of about one million."
"Charts are presented which facilitate the design of permanent-magnet periodic structures for focusing electron beams. These charts include curves showing the peak magnetic field required for periodic focusing in terms of the electron-beam parameters, the magnet and pole-piece dimensions required to obtain this peak field, and the resultant weight of the focusing system. Thus, sufficient information is given to design completely a periodic permanent-magnet focusing structure for a given electron beam. The design of a focusing structure for a 1-watt X-band tube is carried through in detail to exemplify use of the charts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The microalloy transistor is fabricated by jet electrochemical techniques. It differs from the surface-barrier transistor (sbt) in that extremely shallow alloy contacts replace the surface-barrier contacts. The microalloy contacts are accomplished in a few seconds at a low alloy temperature by a fabrication technique which is described herein. The high-injection efficiency of the resulting contact makes possible increased efficiency of high-frequency transistors. This paper reviews the microalloying process in its application to both homogeneous and graded-base transistors and analyzes mathematically the microalloy emitter region."
"In conventional electron tubes, the grid and anode electrode surfaces become coated with materials evaporated from the cathode, so that they do not exhibit the characteristics of clean metal. It has been found that clean electrodes can be obtained in electron tubes by using active metal surfaces and high degassing and exhaust temperatures, and that they can be maintained for long periods of time by using with them only oxide-coated cathodes having a passive base metal. Tubes having clean electrodes exhibit low levels of grid and anode emission. A diode having a clean anode surface can be made to operate reliably in the emission limited region. A triode having a clean grid surface can be made to have a built-in grid bias of two volts or more. Tubes with clean electrodes have provided stable and reliable performance for long periods of time."
"The results of an investigation of the hot strength properties of several nickel- and cobalt-based alloys are given. These materials, having as minor constituents such elements as aluminum, tungsten, chromium, etc., were chosen for their possibilities as efficient primary electron emitters (when coated with alkaline earth oxides). The diameters of these filaments were all 0.001 inch or less. The general term hot strength is defined as both resistance to flow and as time to rupture at temperatures approximating tube operation. A stress range was chosen so that accelerated conditions prevail, and a measure of the relative strengths of a variety of filamentary alloys is thereby practicable."
"The saturation of reverse current for reverse voltages more than a few tenths of a volt, which is predicted for semiconductor junctions by the simple theory, actually never occurs. Effects such as surface conduction and generation of minority carriers in the space-charge region have been used to explain the failure of the current to saturate. The present discussion considers some other possibilities. For nonplanar junctions, increase in the effective junction area with increasing reverse bias may be important. For any junction, increasing bias may move the effective junction surface to places where the semiconductor has, either actually or effectively, different properties. Some examples of these possibilities, chosen to be as closely related to practical devices as possible, are given."
"Uncertainties in establishing rated values for the low-frequency characteristics of receiving-type tubes are discussed, and it is shown that when a measure of the internal correction voltage is ascertained by the use of generally available data, the problem is greatly simplified. The method of applying it in properly rating the characteristics is described. The nature of the correction voltage is briefly outlined in a manner intended to be helpful in problems of design and quality control."
"A field theory of a crossed field periodic structure is given. Taking into account the effect of space charge, an integral equation method is employed to obtain a general dispersion equation for a structure supporting any space harmonic. The case of pure scalloping is treated in detail and the results are applied to forward and backward-wave amplifiers and backward-wave oscillators. Criteria for gain and oscillations are derived and corresponding expressions for the gain and start oscillation current are obtained. These results include the effect of all space harmonics."
"Some types or electron guns used to form the beam of a low-noise beam type microwave amplifier (e.g. traveling-wave tube) impress sharp potential discontinuities or velocity jumps on this beam. These discontinuities produce strong electrostatic lenses. This paper presents a theory supported by experimental results, showing that the effect of such lenses is to increase the beam noise. Further, axial magnetic fields are shown to reduce this undesirable effect."
"The noise figure of a backward-wave amplifier can be minimized by optimizing the standing-wave ratio and position of the standing wave of noise power on the beam in the precircuit region. These optimum conditions are presented as detailed functions of tube parameters for the common types of backward-wave amplifiers and are compared with the characteristics of conventional traveling-wave tubes. The problem of achieving maximum tuning range while maintaining a noise figure close to the theoretical minimum value is discussed and general design criteria and methods are evolved. Although the voltage-tuned characteristics of backward-wave amplitiers impose rigorous requirements on the noise space-charge-wave transducer, it is shown that wide low-noise tuning ranges are possible even with no programming of the noise reducing electrodes."
"Bunching in a two-cavity klystron in the presence of space charge is computed using a disk model of the electron stream. This digital computer study shows that space charge can actually enhance bunching under proper conditions. Optimum bunching distance is discussed along with the details of the effect of space charge on the velocity spread within the beam. The results are synthesized to provide a qualitative picture of the manner in which bunching, velocity spread, and circuit efficiency contribute to efficiency of energy conversion at an output gap."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"The diffused-meltback process for making transistor structures involves growing a crystal containing a donor and an acceptor impurity, cutting the crystal into pellets, melting and refreezing part of a pellet, and then diffusing. Two impurities may be used to produce high-frequency silicon structures. For best results with germanium, three impurities are required for practical reasons. The two and three-impurity cases are analyzed, and illustrated by graphs and numerical examples. Some characteristic transistor parameters are given to show the applicability of the diffused-meltback process for high-frequency devices."
"The diffused-base transistor structure affords a degree of design flexibility not found in previous structures. This is true because it has a larger number of independently adjustable design parameters than the previous structures. Its flexibility has been exploited in an oscillator transistor for 200-mc service. Design analysis shows that low ohmic base resistance, low collector body resistance, and operation at about 0.3 of the collector breakdown voltage are desirable in the present application. The methods of Lee have been used in making this germaniump-n-pdiffused-base unit. Alloyed emitter and base electrodes are parallel stripes approximately 0.5-mil apart, each measuring 1 × 6 mils. The collector is about 4.5 × 8 mils. Typical parameters at Vc= -10 volts and 1E= 10 ma are: fα= 600 mc,r'_{b}= 35 ohms, and Cc= 1.0 mmf. Median 200-mc oscillator efficiency of 50 per cent is obtained at the design bias point of -20 volts, 10 ma; this exceeds the performance objective. The unit withstands 20,000-gaccelerations in any direction, an additional demand imposed by the specific application for which it was developed."
"For the circular disk type of transistor geometry, as commonly used in alloy junction transistors, base resistance is determined by treating it as a boundary value problem. This treatment results from consideration of the over-all behavior of both minority and majority charge carriers in the base region and leads to an expression for base spreading resistance in terms of alpha, frequency, resistivity, and transistor dimensions. Further consideration of this over-all charge carrier behavior leads to a determination of the entire common-emitter short-circuit input impedance, which in general is complex. Comparison with measurement shows that this impedance, which includes the base resistance, can be calculated accurately over a wide frequency range in terms of physical constants, dimensions, frequency, dc emitter bias, and effective minority carrier lifetime in the base region for small-signal operation of low power alloy junction transistors. Application to other types, such as power transistors and diffused-base transistors, may require extension of the present analysis with a considerable increase in complexity. Limitations and extensions of the analysis in its present form are discussed."
"This paper concerns the partial development of two low-voltage designs of the retarding-field oscillator. These designs differ fundamentally in their power coupling system. TheX-band model has coaxial-line coupling to a waveguide while the millimeter wavelength model has double-cavity coupling to a waveguide. The design developed atXband allows operation with the anode voltage as low as 200 volts and as high as 600 volts. Radio-frequency output power of 20 milliwatts at 200 volts and better than 1 watt at 600 volts is possible. In the millimeter wavelength range, three double-cavity designs have been investigated. These tubes operate in the range of from 4.30 to 5.20 mm, 5.00 to 6.4 mm, and 5.80 to 6.8 mm, respectively. All of these oscillators have anode potentials of 800 volts or less. An output power of 175 milliwatts has been obtained at a wavelength of 6.00 mm. A digest of characteristics possessed by important models of the retarding-field oscillator investigated as of November, 1957, also is included."
"Tube assemblies of forsterite ceramic and titanium are outgassed and then sealed together with reactive alloys in an atmosphere of the noble gas with which they are to be filled. The gettering action of the hot titanium results in a very pure gas filling. Examples of gas tubes constructed by this new process include voltage regulators, voltage reference tubes, thyratrons, and spark gaps. This method of making ceramic-metal seals in an inert atmosphere may be applied to the production of ceramic-metal sub-assemblies and tube types that do not require gas filling or evacuation at the time of assembly. The fact that a vacuum system is not required to make these seals, and that the cooling time is shorted by convection currents, results in simplification of equipment and reduction of expense and should extend the usefulness of this type of ceramic-metal sealing."
"Life tests on surface-barrier-type transistors have been conducted at various temperatures and power levels to identify and characterize the mechanisms which cause the transistor characteristics to deteriorate with time. Three mechanisms have been isolated: the formation of solution cavities in the base of the transistor, an increase in surface recombination velocity, and a decrease in surface resistance. In the normal surface-barrier transistor, the formation of solution cavities proceeds with an activation energy of about 20,000 cal. mole. This leads to an exponential dependence of life expectancy on temperature and dissipation. The formation of solution cavities is eliminated by the microalloy process, in which case the life expectancy is probably determined by the decrease in surface resistance or the increase in surface recombination velocity. The increase in surface recombination velocity causes a well-correlated decrease in current gain and grounded-base output impedance. The decrease in surface resistance produces an increase in the collector \"saturation\" current and may contribute to a decrease in output resistance. The formation of solution cavities brings about a decrease in punch-through voltage and grounded-emitter output impedance."
"A 20 to 40-kmc backward-wave oscillator is described which employs a single-tape helix with a mean diameter of 0.039 inch and a length of 1.75 inch supported internally by a triangular sapphire rod. Physically, the helix is mounted in a hole drilled in the ridge of the output ridge waveguide, and a closely spaced hollow beam is located on the outside of the helix. The output from the helix passes through a short section of coaxial line to the ridge waveguide and then along this guide and through the vacuum envelope to an external mating ridge waveguide. The two sections of guide meet the envelope at an angle of 13 degrees. Output is obtained from the oscillator from 18 to 40 kmc with a voltage range of 300 to 2600 volts. The RF output varies relatively smoothly and exceeds 2 milliwatts with 5-ma collector current over the entire band from 21 to 37.5 kmc. The total variation of power over this band is 6 db. It is expected that this tube will be useful for signal-generator-type applications."
"The fundamental component of beam current in a klystron is calculated by integrating the contributions due to individual velocity classes. For relatively narrow velocity distributions and operation with optimum parameters, the ratio of fundamental current amplitude to that obtained for a uniform velocity beam is given by a simple ratio of Fourier transforms of the velocity distribution functions. Several examples are calculated and the results shown graphically. For tubes with long transit angles, a moderate spread in velocity may result in appreciable decrease of the fundamental component of beam current. Considerable care in the focusing of beams therefore is warranted when efficiency is an important factor in tube performance."
"A hybrid-type traveling-wave tube suitable for high gain amplification at pulsed high-power levels is described. The device utilizes a filter-type loaded waveguide slow-wave circuit, with interaction below the propagating range of the circuit. This gives rise to a broad-band inductive-wall type of amplification with high gain per unit length. The particular structure outlined employs a spatial-harmonic traveling-wave circuit to couple the energy to the input and to extract power at the output. The main interaction circuit is separated from the input and output section by short ceramic terminations. With proper design, performance at good efficiencies is obtained over a 10 per cent bandwidth to date. A special feature of the device is the possibility of adjusting the gain variation with frequency to suit the designer. This comes about from the fact that the gain per unit length decreases with frequency in the coupling sections, and increases with frequency in the center (nonpropagating) section. By proper selection of the relative lengths of the two circuits, it is possible to obtain either flat gain or peak gain at either end of the frequency range. The efficiency does not appear to be affected by the center section and is limited by the characteristics of the output section only. With the present configuration, it was possible to obtain both good stability and reasonable efficiency simultaneously."
"Several new types of coupling structures, designed to extract energy from a megavolt electron beam at a harmonic of the frequency used to modulate the beam current, are considered. In particular, the advantages of a slow-wave device over a right cylindrical cavity are indicated. The slow-wave coupling device may be resonant or nonresonant; the latter corresponds to a Cerenkov radiator. Power measurements at the twelfth harmonic of the fundamental modulating frequency provide good correlation with the theoretical power output expected. The design of a submillimeter coupling device is described, and the theoretical pulsed power obtainable is shown to be at the milliwatt level for a harmonic current density of 74 ma/cm2."
"A reflex klystron has been tested as a narrow-band amplifier at 11,000 mc. The performance is predicted rather accurately from simple theory and steady gain can now be obtained in the 30-db region with a bandwidth of the order of megacycles. A noise figure of 40 db was measured and the saturation power output was the same as the output of an oscillator. A circulator was used in these tests to separate input from output and we consider it important to use this component with any type of negative resistance type amplifier."
"An analysis is made of the factors causing the variation of current gain as a function of operating temperature. As a result, conclusions are reached which indicate that the base resistivity is the major single factor contributing to these variations. Finally, the results of this investigation are directed toward possible applications."
"The spreading of magnetically confined electron beams caused by thermal velocities has been investigated theoretically and experimentally. An analysis of the spreading of confined beams of various geometries (strip, rectangular, and cylindrical) is presented. The thermal spreading of a confined cylindrical beam was measured at the anode of a parallel-flow Pierce gun. A transparent fluorescent screen was used for the anode. The spot size at the anode was measured as a function of magnetic field and an attempt made to relate the results to the theory."
"An analysis of an electron beam which interacts with a chain of coupled resonators is presented. Several important characteristics of traveling-wave tubes which employ periodic slow-wave circuits are described. It is found that, even for a lossless circuit, the gain does not become large near either pass band edge although the interaction impedance does become very large. Furthermore, useful amplification is found to occur outside the normal circuit pass band, particularly when the frequency is below the low-frequency cutoff where the circuit presents an inductive reactance to the beam. The problem of matching uniform transmission lines to the periodic circuit is discussed from the equivalent circuit point of view and it is shown that the terminating impedance which produces no reflection from the output end of the circuit when the beam is present may be appreciably different from that required when the beam is absent. The method of analysis applies to spatial harmonic operation, including backward spatial harmonics, as well as to synchronously tuned multicavity klystrons."
"This paper describes a new device for the generation of high-frequency oscillations in the centimeter wavelength region with high efficiency and low starting currents. The tube is fundamentally a Barkhausen-Kurz oscillator [1] utilizing a resonant cavity and a magnetically focused electron beam, but with no accelerating grids. The important features of this tube are the use of a parabolic potential distribution to utilize multiple transit electron motion, and the use of the magnetic field to control coupling between the electron stream and the resonator field and to reduce to negligible value the current intercepted at the resonator gap. A preliminary theory of the electronic energy interchange of this oscillator is provided, and the background theory of the oscillator design is discussed. Both X-band and K-band tubes have been tested. In the X-band tube, a maximum output power of 1.8 watts and a maximum efficiency of 13.5 per cent were obtained. At K band, the maximum power output was 430 milliwatts, and the maximum efficiency was 12.2 per cent. Starting currents belaw 0.1 ma have been observed at X band."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Production prototype silicon transistors have been made using large area diffused base structures. Simultaneous diffusion of gallium and phosphorus is used to form the diffused base structures. The geometry and doping level of the structure can be controlled by varying the impurity source composition and temperature. The phosphorus surface concentration is a much less rapidly varying function of source temperature than is the gallium surface concentration, and is determined primarily by the source composition. Two line base contacts, one line emitter contact and a collector contact, are attached to the wafer by using appropriate alloys in conjunction with titanium or tungsten back-up plates. The structure then is encapsulated in a hermetically sealed package. The transistors are capable of dissipating 85 watts at a 25°C mounting base temperature and have been used in circuits, as is described, to deliver 25 watts Class A, 80 watts Class B in push-pull operation and peak currents of 10 amperes in pulsed operation."
"Results are presented of an experimental study of the spent beam of a backward-wave oscillator. The instantaneous velocity and current of the spent beam are measured using a velocity analyzer built onto the collector of a scaled 80-mc backward-wave oscillator. The tube employs a sheet beam and interdigital line, 12 feet long. It is designed to be representative of large-space-charge tubes. The measured trajectories of the spent beam are examined to deduce the mechanism of interaction between the beam and the circuit along the whole length of the tube. It is deduced that the level of oscillation is determined by nonlinear effects in the convection current. Finally, the RF output efficiency saturation at high beam currents is found to be caused by electrons which fall back in phase from a retarding to an accelerating circuit field."
"If two ohmic contacts are made to the thin emitter region of a transistor in the form of a ring around the periphery and a dot in the center, it is possible to vary the ratio of the emitted current density under the center dot to the emitted density under the ring by passing a transverse current radially through the emitter region. This makes it possible to reduce the surface losses in such a transistor esentially to zero, at some expense of increased base resistance. Such a controllable alpha makes possible feedback stabilization into an independent terminal. The essential theory of operation and experimental verification of the calculations are shown and discussed."
"A power theorem is developed for parametric, longitudinal, electron-beam amplifiers which may be considered as a generalization of Chu's well-known kinetic power theorem. The new power theorem is used to explore the limitations on noise performance of parametric electron-beam amplifiers. It is shown that the electron-beam noise does not impose a basic limit on the noise performance of a parametric electron-beam amplifier in the way a basic limit is imposed upon the noise performance of conventional longitudinal electron-beam amplifiers. The new power theorem can be employed for understanding the operation of parametric beam amplifiers in the same way as Chu's kinetic power theorem has been used for interpreting the opoeration of longitudinal beam amplifiers."
"A method of focusing a long hollow electron beam is described in which beam space-charge fields are balanced against uniform radial electric fields and periodic radial and longitudinal electric fields. There is no magnetic field associated with this focusing method. Elimination of the usual large axial magnetic-field requirement of \"confined flow\" focusing allows the tube system employing the electrostatically focused hollow beam to be lighter in weight, more compact, and to enjoy an enhancement of over-all efficiency. A physical description of the focusing mechanism is given, followed by a mathematical treatment which yields conditions for stable beam flow. Expressions are derived for electrode voltages required to focus a given hollow beam, as well as for velocity variation and beam deflection. A comparison of beam \"stiffness\" is made with a conventional \"confined flow\" beam. Beam stability is investigated under various \"overfocusing\" conditions and imperfect entrance conditions. Finally, this focusing method is compared with other purely electrostatic methods. An experimental program was carried out which demonstrated the usefulness of this type of focusing. Results indicate that good beam definition and transmission coefficients can be obtained with some insensitivity to entrance conditions."
"The propagation constants of a traveling-wave tube can be normalized in such a way that curves of a quantity proportional to gain per wavelength, vs a parameter proportional to electron velocity, approach a single curve at large values of a space-charge parameter. The usual Pierce normalization yields analogous curves that approach an asymptotic curve for zero space charge. Suitable curves for calculation of traveling-wave tube gain, based on this large space-charge normalization, have been computed and are presented for a wide range of values of the relevant parameters. It is found that, even for very large values of the gain parameter, corresponding to values of C of the order of 0.3, these curves do not depart substantially from the asymptotic curve."
"The ratio of the starting current for the first spurious mode of oscillation, in 0-type backward-wave oscillators, to the starting current for the main oscillation has been computed, taking into account the magnetic fields used for beam focusing as well as the transverse components of RF circuit fields. The results show an appreciable influence of both parameters on this ratio and partially explain the suppression of spurious outputs in backward-wave oscillators which can be achieved by deliberate misalignment of the tube in the magnetic field. For higher losses uniformly distributed over the RF circuit length, the ratio I's/I'odecreases; i.e., the tendency toward spurious oscillations increases. This effect may be understood from the coupled-mode theory, since for higher losses the interaction between the circuit wave and the slow space-charge wave decreases much more rapidly for the main mode than for the spurious one."
"An approximate factorization of the traveling-wave-tube (TWT) equation for the propagation constants is obtained by observing that the unattenuated wave is approximately a hyperbola for a lossless circuit. Analytic expressions for gain are also found."
"An exact solution to the diffusion-recombination problem is obtained for the case of a sample in the form of a right circular cylinder with arbitrary bulk lifetime, arbitrary surface recombination velocity on the lateral curved surface of the sample, and infinite surface recombination velocity on the (lapped) plane end surfaces of the sample. The latter surfaces may be regarded as electrical contacts to the sample, and in such a case the geometry corresponds precisely to a very commonly used experimental arrangement for recombination measurements. Relations between bulk lifetime, surface recombination velocity and observed time constant are calculated and plotted with the height-radius ratio of the cylinder as parameter for the principal decay mode, and the higher-mode decay scheme is worked out for a few cases of practical interest. Examples Of simultaneous surface recombination and bulk lifetime measurement by observation of the higher-mode decay components are presented."
"The noise figure of a microwave beam amplifier has a lower limit that depends entirely upon the noise process in the electron gun near the potential minimum. This paper is chiefly concerned with the theory and experimental results of a new method of measuring the noise parameters of the electron beam, especially the correlation between its velocity and current fluctuations, by using a \"selective beam coupler\" that has properties similar to the conventional microwave directional coupler. An appreciable value for the real part of the correlation coefficient between the velocity and current fluctuations was found in the space-charge-limited region. This value went to zero, or slightly negative, in the temperature-limited region. The probable error in the noise measurements is discussed by taking account of the residual selectivity of the selective beam coupler, the effect of the pickup cavities upon the beam, the thermal noise from the pickup cavities, and the higher-order modes in the beam. Measurements of\\Pi/S, the real part of the correlation coefficient between velocity and current fluctuations, have been made on a number of guns. Under space-charge-limited conditions, the observed values were approximately 0.2 to 0.3. Under temperature-limited conditions,\\Pi/S \\approx 0."
"Misconvergence of the beams in color kinescopes because of deflection has been corrected in the past by the use of dynamic convergence devices. Six independent fields are required to deflect three beams without misconvergence. Conventional deflection yokes supply two of these fields; the remaining four are supplied by convergence magnets. This paper describes a more general system that uses six coexistent deflection fields. Such a system is capable of producing deflection without misconvergence, and in contrast to conventional systems produces no loss in color purity tolerance. A particular embodiment of this system is discussed in detail. It employs a six-coil \"converger\" used in combination with a conventional deflection yoke. The results of an experimental investigation of this embodiment are given."
"A symmetry property is deduced for an electron beam modulated and demodulated by gaps of cavities. This property results from a combination of the theory of space-charge wave propagation in an accelerated beam and of the theory of gaps. It states that in a region bounded by two cavities, the power detected by the second cavity is unaltered by an interchange of potentials on the two cavities, provided the widths of the gaps are small. Experimental results are given for both linear and nonlinear acceleration and deceleration regions. In all cases, this property is found to be true. Most of the experimental results are also tested vs theoretical solutions of the electronic equation for regions of acceleration. The reduction factor is included in the theory."
"A general design procedure is developed for the design of both low-power and high-power high-efficiency traveling-wave amplifiers. The process is based on the selection of optimum values (for highest efficiency) of the design parameters C, QC, B and b from the large-signal curves and design of an amplifier with the particular type of RF structure specified by power and bandwidth requirements and operating parameters as near the optimum values as possible. In cases where the optimum design parameters cannot all be realized simultaneously, the design engineer will be able to select the parameter that he wishes to adjust. The procedure is first developed for helix-type tubes and then correction factors are derived that permit the design of amplifiers with any type of RF structure from the same set of curves."
"This paper describes the design of single-stage and double-stage collectors which can be operated at \"depressed\" potentials. When these single-stage and double-stage collectors were used in conjunction with a traveling-wave amplifier, over-all efficiences of 46 and 57 per cent were obtained, respectively. The maximum increase in efficiency which can be obtained by the use of depressed collectors having one to three electrodes is calculated for various traveling-wave tube design parameters."
"The techniques developed to study large signal effects in the two-cavity klystron have been extended to determine performance of the multicavity tube. Bunching is computed as a function of excitation phase and amplitude at various gaps, tunnel lengths, beam diameter and density. Results of efficiency calculations taking into account velocity distribution within the bunch are discussed."
"Contains various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"A report of the analytical and experimental studies of crystallographic orientations and crystal plate mountings leading to an improved phase stable crystal unit under mechanical shock and vibration is made. An hypothesis will be advanced which suggests that a neutral axis (or axes) exists in thep lane of an AT plate and if the blank is mounted at the ends of this axis (or axes), the frequency (or phase) of the crystal unit will not be changed by any stress applied through the mounting points. Evidence will be given showing the importance of oscillator design on the problem of phase (or frequency) stability as a result of mechanical shock and vibration."
"Summary form only given, as follows. The complete presentation was not made available for publication as part of the conference proceedings. The accuracy of timing devices is advancing to the point where they may be used for detecting a number of very small effects connected with general and special relativity, and thereby afford critical tests of these theories. Possible experiments of this type will be discussed, including those which may test for ether drift, gravitational red shift, and transverse Doppler effects. The use of satellites for some of these experiments will be considered."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Describes methods of measuring the significant amplitude levels of a monochrome or color television signal, either composite or noncomposite. The author discusses measurements at points in transmission systems where the signals are at video frequency. The methods described in this Standard are limited to those involving the use of oscilloscopes, and are primarily directed to specifying means of measuring television signal levels for operating purposes.<<ETX>>"
"The standardisation of methods of testing radio telegraph transmitters is considered. The classification of tests to be performed is discussed, and specific methods of measuring power output, spurious transmitter output, frequency stability, carrier hum, and keying characteristics are given.<<ETX>>"
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"A general description of the nature of radio astronomy, its differences from optical astronomy, a review of the earliest beginnings of galactic and solar radio astronomy, and a listing of other important observational discoveries is given. A nearly complete bibliography of these early publications and of the principal review books and papers on Radio Astronomy is given. Some practical aspects and instrumental developments of possible interest to radio engineers are pointed out. The papers in this issue of the PROCEEDINGS on Radio Astronomy are discussed generally and individually. A brief description of some new results on solar-burst spectra obtained at the Radio Astronomy Observatory at the University of Michigan is presented."
"December, 1957, marks the 25th anniversary of the completion of Karl Guthe Jansky's field studies which proved that electromagnetic waves in the radio spectrum of extraterrestrial origin were reaching the earth. April, 1958 will mark the 25th anniversary of the date on which this basic discovery was disclosed in full to the scientific world. This paper describes, briefly the steps which led to Jansky's basic discovery, some of the important results of later studies in radio astronomy, and the relationship between pure and applied science illustrated by the basic discovery and subsequent work in this field."
"A history is given of radio astronomy experiments conducted by the author from 1936 through 1947. A description of the parabolic reflector and equipment design is presented along with reasons for the choice of successive operating frequencies of 3300, 910, 160, and 480 mc. The results are reviewed in light of more recent knowledge. Published articles covering the scientific details will be found in the footnotes."
"A brief account is given of the initiation of the feasibility study on the establishment and operation of the National Radio Astronomy Observatory at Green Bank, West Virginia. The principal research facilities will be the radio telescopes, and a series of such telescopes have been proposed. The desired performance characteristics are reviewed. A 140-foot steerable paraboloid on an equatorial mount has been designed. The steps leading to this design are described, as well as the general features of the designed and the expected operating performance. The National Radio Astronomy Observatory is being sponsored by the National Science Foundation."
"The measurements which have been made of the field strengths of radio signals received at the Green Bank site of the National Radio Astronomy Observatory are described. The site is relatively free from interference and the measures which are being adopted to preserve its radio quietness are discussed."
"This paper describes the principal instruments used for radio astronomical observations at the Nancay field station. They are a variable spacing interferometer made of two 7.5-meter mirrors movable on rail tracks, several radio-telescopes and interferometers for solar research at 3-cm wavelength, and a 32-antenna interferometer operating on the wavelength of 177 cm. The second part of the paper gives some new results concerning the sources of solar radio emission and a phenomenon of scintillation at 3-cm wavelength apparently caused by the troposphere."
"This paper discusses considerations in high-sensitivity microwave radiometry, especially as applied to systems having temperature thresholds significantly less than 1°K. Many considerations that have been ignored in previous analyses are shown to be prominent. The influences of the background radiation from space, atmospheric oxygen, atmospheric water vapor, and earth-bound radiators are shown to set a threshold level. Fluctuations in gain and temperature of the antenna, the waveguide system, the comparison source, the noise balancer, the receiver, and other amplifying components are shown to set another threshold. Impedance-modulation effects set still another threshold. The intrinsic internal receiver noise establishes an irreducible threshold. Continuous nonswitched types of radiometers usually are not suited for high-sensitivity applications because the present state of the art in gain stability is not adequate. The square-wave switched system is most likely to yield satisfactory results. In these systems the optimum performance is obtained when the magnitude of the signal within the system is minimized at approximately the level at which measurements will be made. This result establishes the requirement for noise balancing which may be either continuously adjusted or adjusted once for each measurement."
"A sensitive microwave radiometer system operating at short centimeter wavelengths has been developed which will allow large extensions of the known spectra of a large number of radio sources; facilitate the measurement of source polarization; give information on galactic structure and the sources of galactic radio emission; provide new data on the physical structure of planetary nebulas; and provide a means of measuring more accurately planetary temperatures, and the precise position of the brighter radio sources. A traveling-wave tube radiometer operating at 8000 mc with a bandwidth of 1000 mc and sensitivities of the order of 0.01°K is described. The radiometer is more than one order of magnitude more sensitive than other existing radiometers operating at 8000 mc. The very serious effects of gain fluctuations, acting on small residual signals, when trying to achieve very high sensitivities, are discussed. A means of eliminating such effects by introducing compensating noise has been found successful. Radio observations with this radiometer in conjunction with a 28-foot parabolic reflector have shown that: 1) The predicted sensitivity is achieved. 2) Zero-level stability is extremely high. 3) It has been possible to detect in detail the distribution of radio brightness at this wavelength in the vicinity of the galactic plane. 4) Radiation from the planets Jupiter and Saturn has been detected, this being the first detection of Saturn as a radio source. 5) Radiation from two planetary nebulas has been detected, this being the first detection of these objects as radio sources."
"The lower limits of receiver noise are explained in terms of the fundamental physical constants of vacuum tubes and microwave crystal rectifiers. With negative-grid vacuum tubes, the receiver noise, expressed in absolute temperature units, can be about 30°K at 10 mc but increases to about 1000°K at 1000 mc. For crystal superheterodyne at all frequencies below 10,000 mc, the receiver noise can be down to 600°K, limited only by the crystal mixer. Above 10,000 mc the crystal rectifier parasitic elements-spreading resistance and barrier capacity-cause the receiver noise to increase rapidly to values of approximately 7000°K at 70,000 mc. For the future, high mobility semiconductors and new rectifier geometry promise substantial reduction of the parasitics. Also, a cooling mechanism promises limitless reduction in noise; a receiver noise of 150°K for all frequencies below 100,000 mc seems feasible."
"A pencil-beam radio telescope of the cross type is described; it has a beamwidth of 49 minutes of arc and a sensitivity which approaches, under ideal conditions, 2×10-26 W m-2 (cps)-1, that is, about 1/10,000 the flux density of the strongest radio source. To speed the collection of information the beam may be scanned, presenting information on five separate declinations quasi-simultaneously. Although it is intended primarily as a survey instrument, strong radio sources may be located with high accuracy; the probable errors in the measured positions of the stronger identified sources average less than a 1-foot arc. Methods of calibrating the flux density and temperature scales are described and some examples are given of the use of the radio telescope. The theory of operation and some of the design factors are discussed and it is concluded that, for a given size of antenna and the best snr on a typical radio source, the wavelength is rather well defined. This optimum generally lies in the range 2 m to 4 m, depending on details of the receiver and antenna design; other factors, however, play an important part in the choice of wavelength."
"The construction and operation of the Sydney 19.7mc \"Mills Cross\" radio telescope is described briefly, with special reference to the features peculiar to operation at this low frequency. The results obtained so far are reviewed. They relate to the detection of ionized interstellar hydrogen, to the evaluation of the general background radiation from extremely distant external galaxies, to the study of discrete sources, and to the study of refraction in the ionosphere."
"The design of a high-frequency radar antenna making possible the detection of echoes from the ionized trails produced by very small meteors is described. Preliminary results indicate that the radar system, when fully completed, will be capable of detecting meteors down to the 15th visual magnitude, thus making possible radio studies of meteors five visual magnitudes smaller than the smallest which have heretofore been systematically investigated at back reflection. The results of these studies are expected to provide new information on the amount and distribution of interplanetary matter, the contribution of meteoric ionization to the lower ionosphere, and the radio propagation characteristics of vhf ionospheric scatter and meteor burst communication systems. The results of some preliminary measurements of meteors down to the 14th magnitude are presented. Other possible applications of the antenna are discussed."
"Equations are derived for the number of sources which a radio telescope can detect and the number which it can resolve. Based on these relations curves for the number of sources which can be both detected and resolved, as a function of frequency and aperture, are presented. The need for large apertures in order that radio astronomy deal with significant numbers of sources is evident. It is also pointed out that there is a most economical frequency for radio astronomy in the vicinity of 300 mc. A design for a radio telescope which provides a large aperture at low cost is described. It consists of a fixed standing parabolic reflector with a tiltable flat-sheet reflector. The advantages of the design are pointed out and the results with a scale model are described."
"Salient features of the theory and practice of radio interferometry are presented with special attention to assumptions and to the specifically two-dimensional aspects of the subject. The measurable quantity on an interferometer record is defined as complex visibility by generalization from an analogous quantity in optical interferometry. Subject to conditions on antenna size and symmetry, the observed complex visibility is equal to the normalized two-dimensional Fourier transform of the source distribution, with respect to certain variables S. and S, which are defined. This transform is in turn identically equal to the complex degree of coherence Γ between the field phasors at the points occupied by the interferometer elements. The correlation between the instantaneous fields, and that between the instantaneous intensities are less general parameters which are, however, deducible from Γ. A theorem is proved according to which only certain discrete stations on a rectangular lattice need be occupied for full determination of a discrete source distribution. Procedures in interferometry are discussed in the light of this result and an optimum procedure is deduced. Current practice is considered over-conservative, e.g, independent data in the case of the sun are obtainable only at station spacings of about 100 wavelengths on the ground, a fact which has not hitherto been taken into account."
"The observed antenna temperature due to a celestial source distribution differs from the true distribution in being smoother; various methods are known for operating on the observed distribution to gain better agreement with the true distribution. Current practice includes restoration by successive substitutions, by the chord construction, etc., but also shows a trend towards complete omission of any restoration, which is, no doubt, partly due to awareness that the true distribution is not fully determined by the observations. The isolation of a principal solution has, however, removed uncertainty as to the significance of nonuniqueness. The remaining question as to the degree of restoration which can be tolerated is solved here in terms of statistical properties of the errors. The solution shows that any proposed method of restoration must include mention of the character of the true distribution and of the errors; otherwise cases could be constructed where the proposed method led to deterioration. In the simplest case of independent random errors and a poorly resolved distribution, the rms level of the errors relative to the observed temperature is the relevant parameter (represented by (c/b)1/2 in Fig. 3); e.g., with a random error level as great as 15 per cent, agreement with the true distribution improves up to the third stage of restoration by successive substitutions (Table I) or on application of the chord construction."
"The accuracy of the daily 10.7-cm solar flux measurements taken at the National Research Council, Ottawa, has been investigated. The various system parameters are examined and an auxiliary experiment, using a horn antenna, is described. These studies lead to a revision of the early values of the solar flux and require the use of conversion factors to some of the published data. It has been estimated that the relative error between observations separated by intervals of months may be ±10 per cent during 1947 through 1949, and ±3 per cent during subsequent years. The systematic error in 1952-1953 was estimated at ±7 per cent."
"In order to compare radio-astronomical measurements of power flux observed on different occasions at different wavelengths, special attention must be paid to methods of calibration. A method is described which is suitable for a centimetric radiometer measuring antenna temperature over a range of 0 to 1000°K or more with an accuracy of about 1°K. The power received by the radiometer is compared with that from a CV1881 argon discharge tube fed through a precision attenuator. An additional fixed amount of power is added to that of the radiometer to ensure that the effective temperature is above that of the room. The intensity of solar radiation at λ = 10.5 cm was measured by this method during the eclipse of June 30, 1954. The scale of the chart recording the radiometer output was effectively increased by adjusting the attenuator in steps each time maximum deflection was attained corresponding to about 20°K change of antenna temperature. Finally, to measure the brightness temperature of the uneclipsed sun, the received power from the sun was compared with that from a known external noise source consisting of a horn radiator fed by a CV1881 argon discharge tube."
"Solar radiation and atmospheric attenuation were measured at 4.3-mm wavelength The sun was scanned with a radio telescope consisting of a 10-foot precision paraboloid antenna (6.7-minute beamwidth) and a Dicke-type radiometer. Atmospheric attenuations were determined from the change in received solar radiation with changing elevation of the sun and from direct measurements of the thermal radiation from the atmosphere. The measured attenuations at the zenith for clear skies were between 1.6 and 2.2 db. At 4.3-mm wavelength, the sun (when it is free of sunspots) appears to be a uniform disk nearly one per cent larger than its optical size. From a large number of measurements over a period of 6 months, the solar brightness temperature was found to be 7000 °K with an uncertainty of about 10 per cent. Sunspot regions are slightly brighter than the quiet areas; the largest observed enhancement is 2 per cent."
"A survey is given of the very highly directive equipment and methods which have been devised to obtain details of the distribution of radio emission over the solar disk. A new instrument is described; it operates on a wavelength of 21 cm and gives, for the first time, radio pictures of the sun. This radio heliograph combines principles of the multielement interferometer and the Mills Cross. It consists of 64 parabolic antennas, 19 feet in diameter, arranged along two lines, each 1240 feet in length, in form of a cross. Multiple pencil beams about 3' arc wide are produced by the system; by means of these, the sun is scanned television-wise. The radio heliograph is being used to produce daily pictures of the sun."
"A spectrum analyzer of the type originally built by Wild, et al. is described. The analyzer covers the range of 90 mc to 580 mc at a rate of 3 sweeps per second in three overlapping bands. The output information is presented on three high-resolution oscilloscopes in a frequency-intensity display, and the time axis is provided by the continuous motion of the film used to photograph the displays. Modifications and improvements are suggested."
"A wide-band antenna system has been developed as part of a sweep frequency spectrum analyzer for solar noise studies in the 100 mc to 600-mc frequency range. The antenna system consists of an equatorially mounted 28-foot paraboloid imuminated by a unique feed combination which operates over the frequency range in three overlapping bands. Development of the antenna system has been carried out with the aid of scale models and two full size systems have been constructed. The resulting antenna has an effective area which is reasonably constant over the entire range before reflection losses are considered. The feed configuration is described and performance characteristics are given."
"Observations of the solar radio spectrum have been made at the Harvard Radio Astronomy Station, Fort Davis, Texas, daily from sunrise to sunset since September, 1956. The equipment comprises three separate receivers covering the total range 100-580 mc, and these are attached to a 28-foot-diameter paraboloid antenna. The outputs of the receivers are displayed on intensity modulated, high resolution cathode-ray tubes, and these are photographed by a continuous motion camera. Over-all, the system is approximately ten times more sensitive than any sweep frequency equipments used previously for solar observations. Examples of the records showing the four main types of radiation from active areas on the sun are given, and brief comments are made on the existing theories to account for them."
"The complex flare phenomenon is described in terms of its photographic aspect on Hα spectroheliograms, associated prominence activity, terrestrial effects, and the general pattern of radio frequency emission. Flare-associated events at 2800 and 200 mc are reviewed, and the association between flares and the onset of 200-mc noise storms is discussed. Records of 2800 and 200-mc radiation at the time of 277 flares are compared. Flare-events at frequencies less than 200 mc are considered, and a study of 496 flares at 80 mc is summarized. An effort is made to compare reports of dynamic spectra at radio frequencies with flare data and single frequency records. The apparently close association between flares with \"major early bursts\" at frequencies ⪕200 mc and geomagnetic disturbances is discussed."
"The paper describes an interferometer which has been constructed for studying the various spectral types of solar activity at meter wavelengths. The instrument is a \"swept-frequency\" interferometer and is capable of measuring the one-dimensional position and angular size of a transient source on the sun's disk, and of determining the polarization and intensity of the received radiation. All these characteristics are determined as a function of frequency in the range 40-70 mc. Independent position measurements are made at one-second intervals, and source-size measurements at two-second intervals. Polarization measurements are made as an alternative at chosen times. The two antennas of the main interferometer are spaced 1 km apart on an east-west line. The two antennas of the polarization system are erected on a common axis maintained in the direction of the sun. Some preliminary observations have given an indication of the spectrum of source size for activity of spectral Types I and III. In both cases the angular size is found to decrease from about 10 minutes of arc at 45 mc to about 6 minutes of arc at 65 mc."
"Various polarization measuring schemes are discussed in terms of the Stokes parameters. The methods are separated into three groups according to the number of components isolated by the antenna system. The dispersion resulting from the frequency dependence of the Faraday effect is considered, and the interpretation of polarization data in terms of these effects is discussed. Some results are that one polarization determination will allow limits to be placed on the axial ratio and polarization percentage at the source, and on the ray path integral of longitudinal magnetic field times electron density. A graphical presentation of Hatanaka's dispersion theory permits this to be done very quickly. With suitable assumptions, measurements at two frequencies or with two bandwidths will fix the three quantities. Radio astronomy polarization observations are surveyed. The ionosphere, solar corona, and Crab Nebula are considered briefly in the light of possible Faraday effects. Mayer, McCullough, and Sloanaker's 3.15-cm observations on the Crab Nebula and the optical results are used to analyze lower frequency attempts to find polarized radiation from this object."
"The Cornell polarimeter operates on 201.5 mc with a bandwidth of about 10 kc. This bandwidth is an order of magnitude smaller than previously used. The instrument is basically similar to the interference polarimeter built by Little and Payne-Scott, although it does not operate on an interference basis. The two circular components and the phase and correlation are measured. Ratios of the measured quantities are used graphically to find the polarization percentage and axial ratio. The system is calibrated on a relative basis by transmitting noise from a distant vertical dipole. The errors introduced by inaccuracies in the antennas are discussed; it is shown that the measured inaccuracies might give errors on the order of ±0.05 in axial ratio and polarization fraction. The observed polarizations are similar to what has been reported by other observers, so qualitively there is no gross \"bandwidth effect.\" Mixed and variable polarizations have been seen. An example of a mixed polarization record is shown."
"A radio polarimeter at 200 mc of time-sharing type is described. This instrument observes a set of two circular and four linear components of polarization in 1/200 of a second, with 1/1200 of a second interval for each component, so that practically a simultaneous observation of rapidly varying phenomenon such as a solar burst is made possible. Some details on the electronic switching, the square-law detector, and the method of calibration and checking are discussed."
"A polarimeter at the frequency of 9000 mc for the observation of the solar-radio emission is described. The method of phase modulation at the rf circuit is applied to detect the polarized components in the incident waves. The amplitude modulation by ferrite switching also is used to get higher accuracy for the observation. The Stokes parameters (I, Q, U, and V) in a partially-incident wave can be obtained directly. The minimum detectable intensities of these parameters are 3 for I+Q/2 and V, and 6 for Q and U respectively in the units of 10-22 mks. An example of the observation shows the complex polarization of a solar-radio burst at this frequency."
"Nomograms give refractive index governing radio propagation in the solar corona and the semivertical angle of the cone of escape."
"The brighter radio sources and two regions of the Milky Way were surveyed at 440 mc with equipment mounted in the Naval Research Laboratory's 50-foot radio telescope. An attempt was made to keep the technique in this survey as similar as possible to that used at higher frequencies. Flux values are given for nine discrete sources and contour maps are presented for the section of the galactic plane near and north of the galactic center and for the area near the strong radio source, Cygnus A. The results obtained for five of the discrete sources and for two lines across the Milky Way are compared with the results of other observers at other frequencies, in an attempt to study the radio frequency spectra of astronomical objects."
"Results of a series of measurements on the two most intense radio stars are given. Basic techniques for absolute and relative intensity measurements are described. Principal sources of error are discussed with special attention to the very controversial range below 30 mc. To minimize one common source of error, interferometer arrays using simple dipole antennas over reflecting screens were used for all absolute measurements of Cassiopeia A. For relative amplitude determinations, collinear arrays with higher resolution were employed. The absolute observations show flux densities which increase by a factor of two between 100 mc and 40-50 mc, and then continue a more gradual increase to 18.5 mc. The amplitude of Cygnus A relative to Cassiopeia A is between 0.5 and 0.6 over the entire range of frequencies."
"The results of a survey of cosmic radio background radiation at 250 mc using the Ohio State University 96-helix radio telescope are described. The antenna has beam widths of about 1.2° in right ascension and 8° in declination between half-power points. Radio maps, covering about 75 per cent of the sky, are presented in celestial and galactic coordinates. The greater resolving power of the antenna has revealed a number of fine features of the background radiation as well as numerous radio stars. Radio maps made at other frequencies by various groups are summarized. To present an over-all picture of the sky at different frequencies, eight maps are shown for frequencies from 64 mc to 910 mc. All maps are modified to have the same scale, coordinates and units to facilitate intercomparison. An intercomparison of these radio maps shows some consistent features of the galactic background radiation. These features may be represented by three symmetrical distributions and several unsymmetrical or irregular distributions. The symmetrical distributions are as follows: 1) a narrow belt about 3° wide lying in the galactic plane and concentrated towards the galactic center, 2) a very broad band of radiation concentrated within about 15° to 30° of galactic latitude and having its maximum near the galactic center, and 3) an approximately isotropic distribution. The first component indicates a mixture of thermal and nonthermal origin, while the other two are nonthermal."
"Hyperfine transitions between the F = 0 and F = 1 levels of interstellar hydrogen gas have been observed to produce absorption lines in the spectra of radio stars. Elementary relations are developed which describe the action of an L band radiometer connected to an antenna, if the antenna is viewing an assembly of gas which is illuminated by a radio star. The consequences of the absorption line studies are reviewed. They include: high resolution studies of the interstellar gas, the structure and physical state of interstellar HI regions, minimum distances to radio stars, and experiments of interest in cosmology."
"This paper describes the results of recent investigations at Harvard College Observatory on the interstellar structure around a number of stellar associations and clusters. The results were obtained from analyses of the 21-cm profiles of neutral hydrogen in these systems using the 24-foot and 60-foot radio telescopes at the Agassiz Station of Harvard College Observatory. Investigations of the associations Orion I and Orion II showed expansion of neutral hydrogen around these associations. Preliminary results of studies of other associations Lacerta, Cygnus II, Cygnus VI, NGC 2244, and NGC 2264 are described. Observations of hydrogen content of some galactic clusters were found to show a strong age effect. The significance of the above results for studies of stellar evolution is discussed."
"The study of neutral hydrogen in extragalactic systems by means of its 21-centimeter line emission is a relatively new field of radio astronomy research. To date, radiation has been observed from seven galaxies and three clusters of galaxies. In this paper some of the results of these observations are described. Although the observational material presently available is quite limited, it does indicate the great potential power of extragalactic 21-centimeter line studies."
"The importance of spin temperature for 21-cm line studies is reviewed, and four mechanisms which affect it are studied. Two of the mechanisms, collisions with free electrons and interactions with light, are studied here in detail for the first time. The results are summarized in Table II of Section VI, in the form of certain efficiencies which can be used with (15) to calculate the spin temperature. In Section VI the results are applied to a variety of astronomical situations, and it is shown that in the usual situation collisions with H atoms are very effective in establishing the spin temperature equal to the kinetic temperature. Under conditions of low-density and/or high-radiation intensity, however, important deviations from the usual are noted. The significance of such deviations for absorption studies of radio sources and the galactic halo is discussed. In Section VII the deuterium line at 91.6 cm is considered in like fashion. It is shown that for deuterium also, the spin temperature probably is close to the kinetic temperature."
"A review of the elements of microwave spectroscopy as it concerns, or is likely to concern, radio astronomy is presented. This review attempts to show how atomic and molecular resonance lines arise in the radio frequency spectrum and to discuss the important parameters of spectral lines. Finally, it is shown how the intensity of radio emission received from the galaxy is modified by the presence of an interstellar atomic gas having a resonance transition at the frequency of observation."
"Radiation from the planets, Venus, Mars, and Jupiter, has been measured at a wavelength of 3.15 cm using the Naval Research Laboratory 50-foot reflector and a narrow-band radiometer. The apparent blackbody temperatures for Mars and Jupiter derived from the radio measurements agree reasonably well with the results of infrared radiometric measurements. For the case of Venus, the apparent blackbody temperature derived from the 3.15-cm measurements is about a factor of two higher than the value derived from the infrared measurements. A measurement of the radiation from Venus at 9.4-cm wavelength was made using the same antenna. The apparent blackbody temperature derived from this measurement agreed well with the value derived from the 3.15-cm measurement, but the accuracy of the 9.4-cm result was low because of the small flux density of radiation and the small number of observations."
"Observations are described of radio emissions from the Sun, Jupiter, and Venus during 1956 and early 1957 at a wavelength of 11 meters. Records are presented of solar 11-meter radiation at the time of a large (importance 3) flare on August 31, 1956, and during other periods of solar activity. The effect of scintillation on records of radio stars also is illustrated. A number of records of impulsive radiation from Jupiter at both slow and fast recorder speeds is shown. The radiation is of a bursty or intermittent nature which can be classified into two main types: one which may persist for several seconds and produces a rumbling sound in the loudspeaker and another which is of very short duration (10 milliseconds or less) and produces a cracking or clicking sound. Many of the short pulses consist of distinct pairs or triplets which fall into two main groups, one having pulse separations of about one-quarter second and the other, pulse separations of about one tenth this value. An echo mechanism to explain the multiple pulses is postulated and observed trends in pulse separation compared to those expected with such a mechanism. The stronger Jupiter pulses indicate a peak radiated radio power at the source of the order of 10 kilowatts per cps bandwidth."
"Radiation from Comet 1956 h has been observed on 600 mc at perihelion. An attempt to identify this emission, which presented a rather stable character, has been made. It appears that this radiation may arise from transitions between fine structure components resulting from A-type doubling of the level J=3/2 of the 2∏3/2 state of CH molecule. The observed flux density leads to a number of molecules of the order of 1030-1031, which is compatible with admitted numbers in cometary atmospheres."
"Measurements of the thermal radiation of the moon were made at a frequency near 35 kmc to investigate further the variation of the radio-wavelength brightness temperature with lunar phase first observed by Piddington and Minnett at 24 kmc. The subject measurements, when referred to the equivalent blackbody temperature for the center of the lunar disc, show a complex rather than sinusoidal variation with phase, varying between 225° and 145°K. The directivity of the antenna (about 0.2° of arc between halfpower points) was sufficient to indicate the lunar equatorial (eastwest) brightness distribution; this was found to vary in the expected manner and was in agreement with the form of the central brightness variation during a lunation. Observations of two total lunar eclipses showed that no measurable change in lunar radiation occurs during the few hours of an eclipse. Comparison of these results with calculations by Jaeger suggests the lunar surface is composed of a layer of fine dust of very low thermal conductivity, the average depth of which is estimated as one inch or more."
"High-power radars at the Naval Research Laboratory have been used to study the reflecting properties of the earth's moon. Experimental work over the last six years at frequencies in the 30-mc to 3000-mc band has revealed a lunar surface phenomenon which produces a \"highlight.\" Measurements made at 198 mc have shown that more than 50 per cent of the echo energy is reflected in the first 50 microseconds after the leading edge of a short incident pulse contacts the moon. This fortunate situation permits many interesting astronomical observations and suggests the use of wideband communication signals in a circuit using the moon as a passive relay. Many types of modulation have been successfully passed over the lunar circuit, including amplitude modulation by voice."
"Radar contact has been made with the moon with short pulses at 2860 mc, beginning a program of short-pulse lunar radar. The principal objective of the program is to obtain more accurate moon-to-earth distances than presently are known. Other information may result from the program, such as the earth's diameter, the interplanetary electron density, and the lunar surface characteristics. To date, the program has yielded the following results: earthmoon distances have been measured over several days with consistencies of less than one-half mile; several rough reflectivity measurements have been made which indicate that the radar cross section of the moon is 975 square miles at 2860 mc with pulses of 2-μsec duration, and the fine structure of echoes may be correlated with lunar topography."
"The observations and the theory of radio star scintillation are reviewed, and the following conclusions are reached. 1) The frequency variation of amplitude and phase scintillations agrees with theory. 2) All observers agree that there is a marked increase of amplitude scintillation with increase in zenith angle. The Cambridge data agrees with theory, but the Manchester data does not. No available zenith angle data is adequate to determine the height of scintillation. 3) The available observations of phase scintillation are inadequate for almost all purposes. 4) At present, the Hewish method of locating height by comparing amplitude and phase scintillation is seriously hampered by lack of satisfactory observations. On existing data the method gives heights that are spread over a range of about five to one; all of these heights are above the E region and refer to nighttime scintillation. 5) All observers agree that there is a maximum of amplitude scintillation in the middle of the night. 6) In addition, Australian observers report a maximum of amplitude scintillation at midday. This is only weakly observed, if at all, in the northern hemisphere, where, however, observational conditions are different. 7) Australian observers report maxima of amplitude scintillation at the solstices and minima at the equinox, but observers in the northern hemisphere report little seasonal variation. 8) The rate of scintillation increases under magnetically disturbed conditions, due to increased drift velocity. 9) There is a good general correlation between the occurrence of radio star scintillation and spread F reflections."
"A new method has been devised to measure continuously the phase deviations introduced by the ionosphere into the signals from discrete sources. Sample recordings of measurements at frequencies of 53, 108, and 470 mc are given. An experiment combining this phase measuring technique and standard ionospheric soundings at the point of penetration of the line of sight is in progress and is expected to shed light upon the height of origin of ionospheric scintillations."
"A series of radio telescope receivers has been developed to operate in a switched interferometer system of the type described by Ryle. The new features of the equipment include automatic tracking and recording of the phase difference of a coherent signal at the two receiver input terminals. Chart recorded outputs of total power, signal power, and signal phase are provided. The receiver utilizes dual low-noise rf amplifiers with a high degree of frequency selectivity. Fixed delay lines are available in both receiver channels to allow operation on the higher order lobes of the interference pattern. Front panel controls include a precision gain control, a receiver bandwidth selector, manual and automatic phase tracking controls, and signal power and total power integration time constant switches. Background and signal noise sources are provided for direct calibration of the receiver. Three of these receivers are currently in operation on frequencies of 53 mc, 108 mc, and 470 mc in a two-antenna drift interferometer at the National Bureau of Standards Laboratory in Boulder, Colo."
"Radio astronomy measurements of atmospheric absorption, refraction, and scintillation, taken during the summer of 1956, and the spring of 1957, were made at 3.2 cm and 8.7 mm with the Sun as the source, and at 218 mc with solar energy and radiation from Cassiopeia A. Large tropospheric scintillations at angles below 3° made elevation accuracy difficult in the 8.7-mm and 3.2-cm bands. Refraction at 218 mc was greater than at the microwave wavelengths. Scintillations at 218 mc were present during periods of auroral activity. The information obtained has been useful in assessing radar angle-of-elevation accuracy and demonstrates the use of the sun and other celestial bodies as radiation sources for antenna pattern measurements."
"This paper describes the manner im which 30-mc extraterrestrial radio waves have been used to study the radio absorption characteristics of the arctic ionosphere. It opens with a brief discussion of the theory of ionospheric absorption, followed by a description of the basic principles involved in the technique. Two different types of equipment which have been used in these absorption measurements are then discussed and typical records presented. The observations have shown that the regions of anomalous high-latitude absorption typically have lateral dimensions in excess of 100 km, and that marked differences can occur during disturbed periods between stations 800 km apart. Almost all the absorption of the extraterrestrial radio waves occurs below the E region. The absorption correlates well with the local geomagnetic K index, and apparently is associated with the bombardment of the upper atmosphere by the corpuscular streams which produce the aurora. The increase of absorption during daylight hours is thought to be due to a decrease in effective height of the absorbing layer, resulting from a photo detachment of electrons at heights of the order of 60-80 km, rather than to an increase in the strength of the corpuscular bombardment."
"The spectacular results of radio astronomy have increased interest in the broader field of electromagnetic phenomena in cosmical physics. This subject is introduced here by a discussion of the various possible types of disturbance which may propagate in a magneto-ionic medium. The results are then applied in some regions of interest, particularly those from which nonthermal radio emission takes place. In the solar atmosphere many otherwise mysterious phenomena are explained as electromagnetic effects: the heating of the corona to 10°K, flares, the violent motion of the gases and emission of radio waves, as well as X rays and the corpuscles which cause magnetic storms. Interstellar space, the interior of a mysterious nebula and radio source (the Crab nebula), and interplanetary space provide more examples of electromagnetic phenomena. One of the most fundamental problems concerns the origin of cosmic rays, now believed to result from electromagnetic processes. Evidence is provided of an even more fundamental process: the creation of magnetic field on such an enormous scale that nuclear energy sources are indicated."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists the chairmen of the various Professional groups along with their contact information."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This paper describes the Westrex StereoDisk Recorder which records two stereophonic channels in a single groove with a single stylus. The axes of the two recordings are at 90 degrees to one another, each being at 45 degrees with the horizontal plane of the record. By use of appropriate input circuits, the vertical-lateral type of stereophonic record may also be recorded. The recorder utilizes the electrodynamic feedback features of the Westrex lateral recorder. The design features of the recorder are described and the performance is discussed. Data on channel crosstalk, intermodulation distortion, and frequency characteristics are given. The design features and performance of the complementary StereoDisk Reproducer are described, including the desirability of maintaining the same vertical tracking angle in both recorder and reproducer. This reproducer employs dual d'Arsonval movements resulting in an exceptionally faithful reproduction."
"The ELF screen is a new, flat electroluminescent display which combines very desirable brightness and halftone characteristics with flexible storage capabilities and high scanning speeds. There is no theoretical limitation on the area of the screen. Ferroelectric ceramics are associated with the electroluminescent layer to proved built-in storage and control. The output image is formed in accordance with a charge pattern deposited on the ferroelectric control array. This pattern is established by a signal distribution system, part of which may be incorporated in the screen struc ture. Highlight luminances in excess of 25-foot lamberts have been obtained with contrast ratios of over 50/1 in multielement models. Images may be stored for several minutes or, alternatively, the images can be modified many times per second. Model screens have been built with resolutions of from 4 to 10 elements per inch. Higher resolutions may be obtained by new techniques. A scanning system has been constructed which can distribute the picture information at microsecond switching rates."
"A new type of voltage-tuned microwave oscillator, called the helitron, is described. This device is a practical example of E-type interaction. Electron focusing is accomplished by balancing centrifugal force against a radial electric field force and RF field interaction is both radial and angular. No magnetic field is required. The device employs a spirally-traveling electron beam interacting with the angular and radial components of RF field provided by an internal circuit structure. Experimental results include continuous voltage tuning from 1.2 to 2.4 kmc with an accompanying change in tuning voltage of from 650 to 1700 volts. Start-oscillation current is approximately 0.4 ma for a structure 4 inches long. Power output is in the vicinity of 1 to 10 milliwatts. Second-harmonic output is more than 25 db down, and all other spurious output is more than 60 db below the main oscillation. Possible advantages and limitations of the helitron are described together with brief mention of the accompanying theory of operation."
"An analysis of electromagnetic wave propagation in waveguides (in TH and TE modes) as well as in TEM transmission lines (e.g., coaxial) at frequencies in the extremely high frequency band (30 to 300 kmc) and higher is carried out. It is shown that in the case of metallic waveguides excited in TE0 modes, the attenuation at sufficiently high frequencies is always proportional to (frequency)-3/2. On the other hand with TH waves (including TEM waves) although the attenuation at moderately high frequencies is proportional to (frequency)1/2, yet at sufficiently high frequencies the attenuation drops, becoming proportional to (frequency)-5/2. In other words, with TH waves the attenuation becomes a more rapidly decreasing funcion than it is with TE waves. The analysis is concluded with numerical examples."
"A brief survey of published literature indicates that the electron concentration in the D region of the ionosphere changes with the solar cycle. Such changes should also be apparent in VHF forward scatter signal intensities. Analyses have therefore been made of seven years' results, at 49.8 mc from the Cedar Rapids, Iowa, to Sterling, Va., forward scatter path (1243 km). On an annual basis, it is found that the monthly median received signal intensity, for the noon and afternoon period only, follows the same trend as the mean monthly sunspot number. The effect is still more pronounced when comparison is made with magnetic disturbance indexes. However, when the comparison with magnetic indexes is made using a direct comparison in each 3-hour period, and eliminating long-term trends, no observable increase of the signal intensity is found as the magnetic conditions become disturbed. This is in sharp contrast to the behavior of such circuits in auroral regions. Further analysis shows that a weak increase in signal intensity with a rising magnetic index does occur if the analysis is confined to the midday period. It is concluded, therefore, that any magnetic influence is smaller on middle than on high latitude scatter circuits, but an effect can be clearly discerned by studying the magnitude of the received signal through a solar cycle. These results show that VHF forward scatter signals are not caused by reflection from meteor trails alone."
"A method is derived for determining the potentials in a space-charge-free region, with given potentials and electric fields on a prescribed curve. The treatment is two-dimensional. The method used is to set up a complex analytic potential function along the trajectory, which may be continued analytically into an open region, and whose derivative is related to the electric field. The method is applied to two problems: that of the design of the electrodes for a crossed-field electron gun, and that of the design of the electrodes for Sturrock \"leap-frog\" focusing. It is shown that, owing both to the mathematical and the physical nature of the problems, care must be taken in the application of the method, in order to produce meaningful results. The electrode shapes required to produce exactly the beams in each of the two problems are given. Electrode systems which would be easier to fabricate and which adequately approximate the required fields at the edges of the beam are also described."
"An investigation of the controlled dielectric breakdown of aluminum oxide films resulted in the development of a voltage-sensitive switch which may replace thyratrons and gas diodes in circuits which require single switching from a resistance in the kilomegohm range to one of the order of 1 ohm or less. Compared with a thyratron, the switch is smaller, less expensive, more resistant to shock, vibration and high-energy radiation, and requires no additional power supply. In a recent batch, all samples tested broke down between 12 and 13 volts dc. Three circuits are presented which show applications of the switch in a time delay, in a series arrangement, and in a biasing network where terminal voltage is greater than the critical breakdown voltage of the switch."
"The \"IRE Standards on Piezoelectric Crystals-The Piezoelectric Vibrator\" specifies nomenclature and methods of measurement of the various quantities associated with piezoelectric vibrators. This paper gives in detail the theoretical considerations of these measurements, which are based on the frequency of maximum transmission through a simple pi resistance network which includes the vibrator in the series arm. The motional resonance frequency of the vibrator and the value of the motional resistance by the substitution of a resistor in place of the vibrator may be obtained from the frequency measurement. The theoretical considerations take into account stray capacitances and other impedances, and show how the somewhat involved formulas may be simplified with the average run of presently available vibrators. By the aid of capacitance-bridge measurements and frequency measurements of the vibrator with series impedances, all of the elements of its equivalent electrical circuit may be determined. Charts based on the formulas are included. They relate the measured to the fundamental values of the vibrator elements with any desired degree of precision. It is shown that when using typical quartz vibrators, the measurement of the frequency at maximum transmission will not differ from its value at motional resonance by more than a few parts in a million. Resistance substitution measurements have been found to compare within about two per cent. In addition to the generally available resistance and capacitance bridges, transmission network measurements require a stable RF generator or oscillator, the transmission network, and a sensitive detector."
"It is shown that the nth harmonic cannot be generated with an efficiency exceeding 1/n2. Of the power converted to dc and harmonics, at least 75 per cent is dc dissipation, and this cannot be reduced by an arrangement of selective circuits."
"A report is given on a group effort which has demonstrated the applicability of regenerative shift register sequences to error-correcting codes. It is shown that a triple-error-correcting code of high efficiency can be formed by using the 15 cyclic permutations of a 15-bit, maximal-length, shift register sequence, a 15-bit zero sequence, and the 1-0 complements of the 16 sequences. It is further shown that the interrelationships between the bits of these binary sequences can be used to design a decoder of extreme simplicity."
"A general purpose digital computer can, in principle, solve any well defined problem. At many tasks, such as the solution of systems of linear equations, these machines are thousands of times as fast as human beings. However, they are relatively inept at solving many problems where the data is arranged naturally in a spatial form. For example, when it comes to playing chess or recognizing sophisticated patterns, present day machines cannot match the performance of their designers. The difficulty in such cases appears to be that conventional computers can actively cope with only a small amount of information at any one time. (This circumstance is aptly illustrated by the title of an article by Samuel, \"Computing Bit by Bit.\") It appears that efficient handling of problems of the type mentioned above cannot be accomplished without some form of parallel action. A stored program computer is described which can handle spatial problems by operating directly on information in planar form without scanning or using other techniques for transforming the problem into some other domain. The order structure of this machine is explained and illustrated by a few simple programs. An estimate of the size of the computer (based on one possible design) is given. Programs have been written that enable the machine to recognize alphabetic characters independent of position, proportion, and size."
"Formulas and graphs are presented which describe the distribution of leakage flux around a tubular permanent magnet. The importance of this information derives from the fact that the external leakage flux from the magnets used for straight-field focusing of traveling wave tubes frequently interferes with the operation of other equipment in the vicinity. It is noted that the decrease in field intensity with increased distance from the magnet is approximately exponential over the region of interest. The attenuation constant in the exponent is a function of the length-to-diameter ratio of the magnet. This relation is derived and reduced to a graph. This graph, and easily constructed auxiliary graphs, enable one to insert dimensional information about the magnet and to directly read out the relative field strength to be expected at various distances from the magnet. Illustrations, based upon experience, demonstrate the usefulness of the graphs and their applicability to magnets which deviate from the tubular shape."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents abstracts for the articles comprising this issue of the publication."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"These abstracts and references are compiled by the Radio Research Organilzation of the Department of Science and Industrial Research, London, England, and Published by Arrangement wilth that Department and the Eecfronic and Radio Engineer, incorporati'ng Wireless Engineer, London, England. The Index to the Abstracts and References published in the PROC. IRE fromn February, 1957 through January, 1958 is published by the PROC. IRE, May, 1958, Part II. It is also published by Electronic and Radio Engineer, incorporating Wireless Engineer, and included in the March, 1957 issue of that journal. Included with the Index is a selected list of journals scanned for abstracting with publishers' addresses."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"After a review of the various electronic techniques which have been used in television to simulate optical effects used in motion picture photography, a new process called \"Chroma-Key\" is described. \"Chroma-Key\" is an insetting or matting technique intended for color television which utilizes a highly saturated color background for the inset subject. Many of the problems normally associated with monochrome inset are nonexistent with the new approach. The apparatus required, methods of integration into a system, consideration of various influencing factors, and results of tests and on-the-air use are described."
"The feasibility of displaying images according to electrical signals using an array of electroluminescent cells magnetically controlled has been demonstrated by a working model. A transfluxor is associated with every electroluminescent cell. Each transfluxor is set by the coincidence of row and column current pulses to a level determined by the amplitude of the video signal, stores this level, and transmits energy continuously to the cell in proportion to the stored level. Both halftone and on-off control of brightness is possible. Scanning is accomplished by magnetically switching row and column conductors. The array has 1200 elements arranged in 30 rows of 40 each. The picture is uniform, exhibits good halftones, and has a maximum brightness of four foot lamberts. To obtain sufficient voltage from the transfluxor to excite electroluminescence, drive by short, fast-rising pulses is used. Light output data for such pulses were obtained and it was found that a steeper dependence of light output upon voltage, a different color spectrum, and higher efficiency resulted than is obtained with sine-wave drive. A modification using a linear transformer to couple the transfluxor and electroluminescent cell and driven by sine waves to operate as a transfluxor-tuned resonant circuit was demonstrated to be economical in driving and setting power. For some applications, the full storage afforded by a transfluxor at each picture element is not necessary. A system was investigated which uses fewer transfluxors storing only a row of picture information at a time."
"Free electrons in an ionized medium scatter radio waves weakly. Under certain conditions only incoherent scattering exists. A powerful radar can detect the incoherent backscatter from the free electrons in and above the earth's ionosphere. The received signal is spread in frequency by the Doppler shifts associated with the thermal motion of the electrons. On the basis of incoherent backscatter by free electrons a powerful radar, but one whose components are presently within the state of the art, is capable of: 1) measuring electron density and electron temperature as a function of height and time at all levels in the earth's ionosphere and to heights of one or more earth's radii; 2) measuring auroral ionization; 3) detecting transient streams of charged particles coming from outer space; and 4) exploring the existence of a ring current. The instrument is capable of 1) obtaining radar echoes from the sun, Venus, and Mars and possibly from Jupiter and Mercury; and 2) receiving from certain parts of remote space hitherto-undetected sources of radiation at meter wavelengths."
"An analysis of millimicrosecond RF pulse transmission through uniform systems is presented. Quadratic approximations for the complex propagation constant are used, and a Gaussian pulse envelope is assumed. Employing Fourier transformation, the received waveforms are obtained for the general case of lossy, dispersive systems. The results are discussed and illustrated separately in terms of pulse distortions due to dispersion, due to losses and due to bandwidth limitations."
"The paper deals with a 5 mc oscillator whose frequency instabilities due to vacuum tube effects are at least 100 times less than those present in the best conventional oscillators which achieve stabilization by resonant vector balance. By using quartz crystals of low drift, it is therefore possible to reduce unpredictable frequency changes to one or two parts in 1010. The tubedependent instabilities in conventional oscillators are reviewed, the conclusion being that even with circuit Q values as high as 2 million it is not possible to guarantee frequency instabilities as low as 10-9, much less 10-10. A plan for dual stabilization by resonant-loop balance and bridgeoperated servo to one part in 1010 is described. The development of an oscillator based on this plan and intended as a working frequency standard is explained with the aid of block diagrams and performance data."
"An analysis is made of the consequences to be derived from some fairly broad assumptions as to the nature of turbulent scattering and its effect on waves propagated through the troposphere. The intent is to provide a means for testing the general applicability of this model as an explanation for transhorizon propagation. General relationships for the variation of received power with distance are derived for various scatter-angle dependencies, and for various beamwidth configurations. These relationships are then extended to cover the phenomenon of aperture-medium coupling loss. The results are applied toward distingushing those experiments which are definitive from those which are not."
"A transformer is described which may be used as a phase inverter, a differential transformer, or as a balun transformer. Practical models have been built which operate over more than two decades of frequency range with bandwidths approaching 1 kmc. Insertion loss in a typical transformer fluctuates between 1 and 2 db over the range of frequencies from 5 to 1000 mc. For successful operation the transformer depends upon the magnetic properties of a suitable ferrite core material and not upon the usual resonant lines or cavities commonly utilized with such devices [1]-[3]. The ferrites used are not of the low loss, UHF variety but rather are selected on the (approximate) criterion of yielding a high absolute value of permeability over the entire frequency range, and are typically of a class intended for use at much lower frequencies."
"The elliptic-function filter is of considerable importance because of its ability to provide simultaneously small pass band ripple, large stop band attenuation, and very sharp cutoff, with equal-ripple behavior in both the pass band and the stop band. The fundamental design parameters are the pass band ripple, the stop band attenuation, the transition bandwidth, and the number of poles required. They are interrelated in a rather complicated way involving certain elliptic functions, so that determination of a compatible set of parameters is both tedious and difficult. Two nomographs relating these parameters have been devised, by means of which suitable values can be determined easily and quickly. The ranges covered are: pass band ripple, from less than 0.05 up to 3 db; stop band attenuation, from 3 to 40 db (extendable to any value above 40 db simply by renumbering certain scales); transition bandwidth, 0.001 to 1 times the cutoff frequency, and number of poles, 1 to 20. Once a compatible set of parameters has been determined, the approximation function can be obtained in a straightforward manner. The necessary formulas are given, and the procedure for evaluating them is described briefly."
"The annular geometry gun represents a distinct departure in electron gun design and operation. The modulator section contains an annular cathode, annular control grids and accelerating grids, a beam bending probe and an electron object electrode. Very high modulation sensitivity, inverted modulation characteristics, internal electronic video signal amplification, and automatic \"white noise\" inversion are among the unique performance features of the annular geometry gun. Beam control is produced by a focus modulation process. The final spot is formed by imaging a geometrical aperture in the object plate. This results in very high resolution capabilities and an optimum focus condition and spot size which are practically independent of beam current."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The method developed by Manley and Rowe for the treatment of nonlinear reactive elements is extended to include nonlinear resistors. General power relationships are derived which yield modulation efficiency, efficiency of harmonic generation, and stability criterion."
"G.L. Turin, author of \"Error Probabilities for Binary Symmetric Ideal Reception through Nonselective Slow Fading and Noise,\" which appeared on pages 1603-1619 of the September, 1958, issue of Proceedings of the IRE, has note that several corrections be made to equations appearing in his paper."
"The performance of several basic types of communication systems are determined experimentally, and in some cases theoretically, under typical conditions with steady or fading carriers, and in the presence of thermal or atmospheric noise. The relative efficiency of various carriers and the interference factor of various types of noise are found to be dependent upon the characteristics of the particular communication system as well as the characteristics of the carrier and noise themselves. Methods are considered for calculating errors expected from a given system, based upon the amplitude distribution of the noise envelope."
"This paper discusses some fundamental frequency limitations of the junction triode. It also describes briefly practical accomplishments with germanium diffused base transistors of the type reported by Lee. Finally, the frequency limitations of the junction triode are compared with those of the field effect transistor and the analog transistor. For transistors of the mesa type with linear emitter and base electrodes (i.e., an emitter stripe with parallel base contact stripes a fraction of the emitter width distant on each side), the (power gain)½(bandwidth) product is found to be about 7.5 × 106/s cps where s is emitter stripe width in centimeters. This is an order of magnitude better than the corresponding figures for field effect and analog transistors. For operation at or below the alpha cutoff fre quency, the gain-band product is shown to be nearly independent of the particular alpha cutoff frequency selected. This independence arises from the reciprocity between collector depletion layer capaci tance per unit area and collector depletion layer transit time. This transit time effectively determines alpha cutoff frequency in optimunm gain-band designs."
"Frequency variations in the propagation of shortwave signals were observed at frequencies of 5 mc and 10 mc for about six months, beginning in August, 1957, utilizing the standard frequency transmission of station JJY in Tokyo. The distance from the station to the receiving point was about 360 km, and the propagation path was nearly parallel to the latitude. It was found that during the six to ten-hour period centered at noon the E-layer reflection of 5 mc was most suitable for utilizing the standard frequency, although the field intensity was very weak and the accuracy of the frequency comparison was only 5×10-9, which was inferior by about a factor of ten to that possible with the VLF standard signals. The propagation of signals (at 5 mc at night and 10 mc throughout 24 hours) which are widely used for communication service was accompanied by considerably large frequency variations, up to 3×10-7. However, most variations are not large enough to disturb the communication quality even for those communication systems which require the severest limitation of frequency variations. The diurnal and seasonal variations of the 5-mc signals, whose reflection point was in the E layer in the daytime and in the F2 layer at night, were observed, and the differences between the F2to E-layer exchange in the morning and the E- to F2-layer exchange at evening were also observed and discussed."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Between the years 1888, when Hertz first launched electromagnetic radiation in the radio spectrum, and 1900, when Marconi was successfully establishing communication by radio, the scientific investigators of the time turned their attention to microwaves. Later, when it was found that the longer waves were more suited to long-distance communication, interest in the microwaves waned. Between 1888 and 1900, however, microwave devices and techniques had a rich development anticipating much of present-day practice. This paper reviews the antennas and waveguides of the period, with some reference to the associated microwave techniques then developed. Apart from Hertz's dipole, with or without a plane reflector, the principal microwave antennas evolved were the cylindrical parabola, the dielectric lens, the waveguide cavity radiator, the radiating iris, and the electromagnetic horn. Among the waveguides produced were the round, square, and rectangular forms, the open end being used as a radiator. The experimental development of these hollow pipe radiators appears to have anticipated Rayleigh's theoretical paper on waveguides by a number of years, Lodge discovering the mode property experimentally in 1894. Many of the associated microwave components were of the \"freespace\" or quasi-optical type, rather than of the constrained or bounded type as common today, since the investigators between Hertz and Marconi were interested profoundly in the representation of optical phenomena at microwave frequencies. Hertz himself was the founder of \"microwave optics,\" a classical subject being revived today."
"Attention is called to the existence of microwave resonances which have the unusual property that they are nonradiating, and thus have high Q, in spite of the fact that the fields are not enclosed completely by metallic walls. These \"ghost modes\" represent fields which are derived from those of the usual waveguide modes, but are \"trapped\" in the vicinity of imperfections in the waveguide. Their resonant frequency is slightly lower than the corresponding cutoff frequency. If one attempts to use a waveguide in its lowest mode, over a range of frequencies which includes the ghosts of higher modes, complicated resonance effects may be observed which can cause trouble in some types of microwave circuits. The same phenomenon exists in any structure which has pass bands and rejection bands, such as periodic structures or crystals."
"High-frequency crystal filters which operate to 40 mc are now being commercially produced. These filters, with bandwidths ranging from one cycle to several hundred kilocycles per second, have been made possible by new design techniques and simplified circuitry. Eliminating the need for multiple frequency conversion, the small rugged flters are already beginning to find wide use in many AM, SSB, and fm receivers as well as single-sideband generators. Crystal filters are normally composed of from two to eight quartz resonators in a lattice or bridge network. The filter components are characterized by high Q and stability under extreme environmental conditions. Normal values of Q for crystal filter components in the 1 to 40 mc range are from 50,000 to 200,000; in certain filters, element Q's exceed 1,000,000."
"Experimental klystron amplifiers, which were used to investigate the cw power obtainable at a wavelength of 8 mm, are described. Working at 5000 volts with a beam current of 0.2 a, these tubes produced an output power of 75 watts cw. Operation was limited by the maximum current density of 1.5 a/cm2 which could be drawn from sprayed-oxide cathodes."
"Under conditions of high-level interference fm receiver performance is often impaired because of improper low-frequency time constants in the limiter and discriminator circuits. The computation of the upper bounds on the permissible values of these time constants is illustrated. Severe restrictions are indicated which often conflict with other fundamental requirements. The computational results of this paper demonstrate that these severe restrictions can be alleviated by means of simple schemes that will greatly enhance the capture performance of the fm receiver."
"The design considerations, construction, and performance of an S-band, pulsed, kilowatt-level traveling-wave tube, focused by means of periodic permanent magnets are described. The tube exhibits saturated power gain in excess of 30 db, with a bandwidth of approximately 2-4 kmc and weighs 17 pounds or less, complete with package. The results of studies on the electron beam defocusing effect of strong rf fields and on the effect of attenuator design on power buildup and saturation level are reported. Factors affecting the design of a high-power traveling-wave tube using periodic magnetic focusing are described in order to show the design constraints imposed by the periodic focusing system."
"This index covers all Standards on Definitions of Terms issued by the IRE from 1942 through July, 1957, that are still in force. It brings together in one alphabetical list approximately 3500 technical terms defined in those Standards, indicating the IRE code number of the Standard and the issue and page number of the PROCEEDINGS OF THE IRE where the definition may be found. Standards issued prior to 1949, which were published as separate reports instead of in the PROCEEDINGS, are identified by the word \"separate\" in the index. In some instances the same term has been defined in more than one Standard. If the Standards are in the same field, only the last published definition is referenced in the index; if they are in different fields, all definitions are referenced. A list of the Standards covered in the index and their IRE code numbers is given below. Reprints may be ordered at the indicated prices from IRE headquarters. Reprints of this index are also available as indicated in the footnote below.* The IRE is greatly indebted to Chester H. Page, Vice-Chairman and Definitions Coordinator of the Standards Committee, for the substantial task of compiling this index."
"Both the monostatic and the bistatic radar cross sections of a man were measured at the five frequencies 410, 1120, 2890, 4800, and 9375 mc. The measurements were made using both horizontal and vertical polarizations, and for various directions of facing, or aspects, of the man being used as a target. The cw Doppler method was used in making the measurements. The man whose cross section was measured weighed about 200 pounds and he was six feet tall. It was found that the man's cross section varied as follows, depending primarily upon polarization of the incident wave and aspect of the man: 410 mc 0.033 to 2.33 square meters 1120 mc 0.098 to 0.997 square meters 2890 mc 0.140 to 1.05 square meters 4800 mc 0.368 to 1.88 square meters 9375 mc 0.495 to 1.22 square meters. A few measurements were made with men of different sizes, and these indicate that the cross section is approximately proportional to the weight of the man."
"This Standard is a revision of Part 1 of Standard 50 IRE 23. S1 and replaces in all respects this previously issued part of the Standard. The need for the revision stems from the standardization of color television signals in the USA, and the inadequacy of the earlier Standard in providing methods of measuring the luminance component of the color signal. The revision consists primarily of a change in the response characteristics of the oscilloscopes to insure adequate suppression of the color subcarrier. Other minor changes in wording and in the associated figures have been made to bring the standard into accord with present terminology and practice."
"A network theory is derived for circuits constructed of linear rheostats driven from a common input shaft. A correspondence between these networks and RL networks is used to demonstrate that driving point impedances and transfer functions are real rational fractions in a real variable, the input shaft rotation. Requirements on the pole-zero characteristics of these functions are established. Methods for developing functions approximating a given input-output relation in physically realizable form are discussed. Modern methods of transfer-function realization can be applied to these fractions to synthesize the physical networks. Networks for sine and log transfer functions obtained by the technique are presented."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The electronics industry has experienced four major periods of development: the radio era, the radar era, the television era, and the missile era. The radio and television eras, both being consumer-goods eras, were strongly influenced by the economic climate and by certian contractual arrangements peculiar to the electronics industry, whereas the radar and missile eras were dominated by factors related to the urgent development of new military weapons. Following a discussion of the characteristics of these eras, the author looks into the future to the possibility of the fifth surge in the industry, which he calls the industrial electronics era-a broad term which is intended to include all electronic fields other than consumer goods, military goods, and entertainment services, and including the field now covered by the electrical industry. The paper concludes with a discussion of the major traits and the absence of any one predominating trait in this new era of the future."
"This paper is a review of thermoelectric effects in solids, with emphasis on the practical application of these effects. The basic principles of thermoelectricity are reviewed, the present status of the problem and recent achievements are outlined in terms of specific practical applications, and the present status of the more detailed theoretical treatments is discussed in a nonmathematical fashion. The more useful equations describing the important parameters are tabulated in Appendixes I and II."
"Application of principles of statistical communication theory has led to a new communication system, called Rake, designed expressly to work against the combination of random multipath and additive noise disturbances. By coding the Mark-Space sequence of symbols to be transmitted into a wide-band signal, it becomes possible at the receiver to isolate those portions of the transmitted signal arriving with different delays, using correlation detection techniques. Before being recombined by addition, these separated signals are continuously and automatically processed so as to 1) apply to each an optimum weighting coefficient, derived from a measurement of the ionosphere response, and 2) introduce in each an appropriate delay such that they are all brought back into time coincidence. After a brief introduction, a functional description of the system is presented. There follows a review of the communication theory studies, which indicate that such systems have certain optimal properties. Details of design of an experimental prototype Rake system are followed by the results of limited field tests of this prototype. Conclusions and recommendations for future work are given."
"An investigation of noise reduction in backwardwave amplifiers has yielded two significant results. 1) This type of amplifier has been demonstrated to be capable of very-low noise figures and therefore constitutes an entirely new class of microwave receiver tubes. Tube noise figures less than 6 db for a 25 per cent tuning range and less than 4.5 db for a 10 per cent tuning range of the amplifier's narrow pass band have been attained. 2) Tube noise figures of well under 4 db have been measured, which are the lowest recorded to date on any type of microwave tube. This performance results from a special low-noise gun which was developed for use with hollow electron beams and which features a new type of beam launching mechanism. The experimental S-band tubes and \"Christmas-tree gun\" are described. Detailed noise performance of the tubes is presented, as well as other data relating to the operation of the tube as a receiver component. On the basis of these experiments, it is concluded that still lower noise figures are possible using the basic concepts of this new gun, not only for backward-wave amplifiers, but also for other types of microwave tubes."
"In order to determine the different parameters necessary for assessing the interfering effect of atmospheric noise to short-wave broadcasting, a systematic physical analysis is made of how the atmospheric noise impulse, as heard by the ear, arises and how it causes annoyance to the listener of broadcast programs. Hence, criteria are developed both for measurement and estimation of atmospheric noise. The paper thus provides the necessary additional physical background for the author's papers on \"Measurement of atmospheric noise interference to broadcasting\" and \"Noise power radiated by tropical thunderstorms\" but leaves the final conclusions and results of the two papers unchanged. Although the paper is thus restricted in scope, it is believed that the general principles emerging from the discussion should be of wider application."
"A. van der Ziel has given formulas for shot noise in junction diodes and junction transistors for transistors in which: 1) All current is carried by one type of carrier. 2) The carrier flow is one-dimensional. 3) The recombination is by volume recombination. These equations are here proved with the help of a corpuscular approach without any significant restrictions except that the individual holes can be treated as independent. The emitter and collector currents are then split into various parts for which the noise spectrum can be obtained by relatively simple reasoning."
"In treating the behavior of the magnetic moments of unbalanced electron spins in ferromagnetic materials under the action of an rf field, second-order terms in the alternating components are usually neglected. It is shown here that retention of certain second-order terms for one component of the magnetization predicts the possibility of using ferrites to detect an amplitude-modulated microwave signal. The demodulated envelope can be used to magnetostrict a long thin ferrite rod, the vibration of which can be observed by means of a polarized BaTiO3 ceramic rod. The results obtained with an experimental model of this device indicate verification of the theory. Factors which are expected to improve performance are discussed."
"Transistors, semiconductor diodes, and solid-electrolyte batteries were exposed to short duration, high-intensity neutron radiation from a U-235 critical assembly which was primarily a neutron source. The effect on these components was ascertained by comparing their principal parameters before and after exposure, and in several cases units of operating equipment utilizing these components were monitored during irradiation. Of the transistor electrical parameters altered by irradiation, most significant were the decrease in common emitter forward current gain (Beta) and the increase in collector diode reverse leakage current (Ico). The higher frequency units were less affected by neutron fluxes than were the audio transistors. High-frequency surface barrier transistors remained virtually undamaged by irradiation up to 1013 total neutrons per square centimeter, an exposure which rendered the audio units nearly useless. Semiconductor diodes suffered an increase in forward resistance and a decrease in back resistance in reasonable accord with the degree of neutron irradiation, while the solid-electrolyte batteries were not permanently affected. The results obtained are in reasonable agreement with those obtained by others who used pile-type reactors with much longer exposure times, thus indicating that the integrated neutron dosage is of primary significance rather than the rate of exposure. The degradation of performance of the operating equipment during irradiation was almost entirely attributable to changes in the semiconductor devices utilized therein."
"A class of filters is developed whose amplitude characteristic has no ripple in the pass band and a high rate of attenuation in the stop band; thus it combines the desirable features of the Butterworth and Tchebycheff response. Among all filters of a given order this new class has the maximum cutoff rate under the condition of a monotonically decreasing response."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"A schedule of 55 technical sessions is given, followed by abstracts of the more than 280 papers to be presented. This year's exhibition will be held in the New York Coliseum at 59th St. and 8th Ave. A list of the 850 exhibitors and their products appears in \"Whom and What to See at the Radio Engineering Show\" in the advertising section of this issue."
"Provides a listing of Institute activities and events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists the chairmen of the various Professional groups along with their contact information."
"Provides a list of current section chairmen and their contact information."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A completely transistorized experimental 150-mc FM communication receiver utilizing diffused base transistors is described. It is a crystal controlled double conversion receiver designed for 60-kc adjacent channel spacing at any channel frequency between 152 and 174 mc. Performance curves for the receiver are provided. For experimental evaluation, the experimental receiver is used with a vacuum tube transmitter to provide a complete transceiver unit."
"A theory of a ferromagnetic traveling-wave amplifier of parametric type is presented here. Amplification of signal power in the form of growing waves is obtained in a propagating structure which is partially or totally embedded in a ferromagnetic medium. The structure, in one of its possible forms, possesses two propagating modes: one of the modes is excited by a signal at the input end, and the other is used as an idling circuit. The structure should also support a traveling wave supplied by a local oscillator which provides, through the motion of the magnetization, a time-varying coupling between the two propagating modes. The problem is essentially that of two coupled transmission lines with a time-dependent coupling coefficient. Optimum conditions for amplification are derived. A structure consisting of two pairs of parallel wires is calculated to illustrate the general principles."
"The principle of using a variable reactance in a circuit to produce gain can be applied to an electron beam. The beam is strongly modulated by an rf wave at a frequency equal to twice the signal frequency. In such a beam the two normal space charge waves at the signal frequency break into two parts-one grows exponentially with distance and the second is attenuated. Either the \"slow\" or the \"fast\" space charge wave can be amplified. When this beam, which has been previously modulated at the double frequency, is coupled to a slow wave circuit, growing waves are found and again the \"fast\" space charge wave can be amplified. We stress the amplification of the fast wave since the noise theorems which apply to previous microwave amplifiers and establish a lower limit to the noise figure do not apply. Thus, in principle, we should be able to obtain lower values for the noise figure."
"The semiconductor properties of gallium arsenide, particularly the high electron mobility and forbidden band gap, besides favorable point contact rectification characteristics, are of interest for microwave diode applications. The device feasibility evaluation described in this paper indicates that, both theoretically and experimentally, gallium arsenide is potentially superior to germanium and silicon in point contact diodes. Besides an improvement in mixer conversion loss, gallium arsenide diodes promise to be operable at appreciably higher temperatures than germanium and silicon units. The noise temperature values for the three materials are comparable. There are indications that gallium arsenide can be used advantageously in fast switching diodes."
"Two types of switch are described, one which is matched in both \"on\" and \"off\" positions, and the other is a very short, wide-frequency band, reactive switch suitable for switching at high repetition rates. A phaser is presented which is a reciprocal device and uses an unusual ferrite configuration. Although no particular isolator design has been included since this has been the subject of many previous articles, the effects of variations of temperature and dimensional parameters have been investigated and the results are presented here, together with some observations on scaling isolator designs into different frequency bands."
"The characteristics of the FM disturbance that is caused by two-signal interference are pointed out and compared with the characteristics of message modulation. The comparison suggests a new role for the amplitude limiter in FM receivers. The limiter spreads out the spectrum which carries the FM disturbance over a frequency range that often exceeds many times the bandwidth requirements of the message modulation. This makes it possible to reject important parts of the interference spectrum by proper filtering in the output of the limiter without substantially affecting the spectrum of the message modulation. A repeated cycle of amplitude limiting and spectrum filtering is found to be an effective scheme for suppressing the disturbance ahead of the discriminator stage, and for improving the capture capabilities of an FM receiver."
"In preceding papers, tables were presented for the design of lossless networks terminated in resistance at one or both ends. Networks with uniform dissipation and a resistance termination only at the load end are considered in this paper. The tables give the element values of normalized low-pass ladders with one of the following characteristics: maximally flat magnitude (Butterworth), equal-ripple magnitude (Tchebycheff), and maximally flat time delay (Bessel polynomial). The low-pass to band-pass frequency transformation can be used on the Butterworth and Tchebycheff networks to yield the element values for the band-pass case."
"In switching problems, the efficiency of the switching circuits is often of considerable importance. In the past the basic switching mechanism has been actuated by pulses of simple functions of voltage, current, or force, and efforts to obtain increased efficiency have led to the use of transistors, development of better relays, and the improvement of other components. This paper considers, as an alternative or complementary approach to the problem, the optimization of the function of time which is used for triggering so as to minimize the energy required of the triggering signal. The general problem of determining the optimum triggering signal for a lumped-constant, linear circuit is considered. The optimum signal is defined as that which produces a given current through, or a voltage across, a resistive output element at time t = T while at the same time requiring a minimum of energy from the generator driving the circuit. The output resistance is considered as characterizing the input terminals of a monostable or bistable element such as a thyratron, multivibrator, or a magnetic relay. An equation characterizing the optimum signal is derived, and the conditions under which the equation is valid are noted. There are two types of circuits for which a characteristic equation is not obtained. However, both of these types of circuits are unrealistic in the practical sense because they do not allow for generator internal resistance or stray capacitance across the input terminals. For equivalent circuits of practical importance the characteristic equation is always valid."
"This paper attempts to describe a new method by which periodic signals in noise can be detected easily without the aid of an expensive correlator. In principle, the circuit consists of a delay network which is inserted as a part of a unidirectional loop connected with the main circuit through a hybrid coil. The delay time must be equal to, or an integral multiple of, the signal period to be detected. The delay time also must be longer than the inverse figure of the preceding network bandwidth. Successive noises will be superimposed one after another at random in circulation, while the signals are superimposed in phase. This means an improvement in the signal-to-noise ratio. Theoretically, the ideal basic delayed feedback circuit gives an improvement in the snr of 7.66 db, and in the apparent Q of 9.06. Further improvement can be expected by the use of active circuits. Possible applications are for producing artificial reverberation, a narrow-band filter, and a short-time memory circuit. The response of the delayed feedback circuit is like a comb filter. The circuit also can extract complicated periodic waves without an appreciable distortion."
"R.N. Bracewell, author of \"Radio Interferometry of Discrete Sources\" and \"Restoration in the Presence of Errors,\" which appeared on pages 97 and 106, respectively, of the January, 1958, issue of Proceedings of the IRE, has informed the editors that these two papers were incorrectly credited. The work reported was carried out entirely at Stanford University, Stanford, Calif., USA and supported throughout by the US Air Force Office of Scientific Research, Contract AF 18(603)-53."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A simple formulation is developed for describing statistically the time coincidences among a set of random pulse trains. Specifically, each pulse train is assumed to consist of pulses occurring randomly and having pulse lengths with some known distribution. It is then possible to determine the statistical distribution for the resulting durations of coincidences among several individually specified random pulse trains. From this can be derived such corollary results as the average duration of the resulting coincidences."
"The short-circuit transient response of a drift transistor is found for a step of input current. The one-dimensional partial differential equation for minority carriers in the base is solved by a Laplace transform technique yielding the rise, storage, and fall times in the common-emitter and common-base configurations. The improvement in rise time due to the built-in field in a drift transistor is found to be less in the common-emitter than in the common-base configuration, which in turn is found to be less than the improvement previously predicted. The built-in field is shown to lengthen storage time, but other effects of the field such as low αІ1 tend to cancel this out in a practical transistor."
"The reversal of magnetization of cores with rectangular hysteresis loop is investigated. For materials whose thickness is more than one thousandth of an inch, the switching is determined from the static loop and the solution of the appropriate field problem; for thinner materials the B-H concept is not sufficient to determine the instantaneous state of magnetization and to characterize the core as a circuit element a new approach must be used. In this paper it is shown that the terminal properties of these cores can be obtained from their dynamic step response; the analysis is based on the physics of magnetization and is experimentally verified."
"The simplest types of nonlinear capacitor modulators, demodulators, and negative conductance amplifiers, in which components at only two signal frequencies are present, are studied by means of the well-known small-signal analysis. The results of this analysis of course agree with the general energy relations of Part I, but in addition give the gain, bandwidth, terminal admittances, and sensitivity (to changes in the terminal admittances or in the local oscillator drive) of these devices, and show the way in which these quantities depend on the amount of nonlinearity. In general, the bandwidth of all of these devices approaches zero as the nonlinearity approaches zero. Three cases are considered; f1 is the local oscillator frequency. 1) Noninverting modulator and demodulator-signal frequencies fl and f+=f1+fl. This device is stable and yields maximum gain with matched source and load. Under matched conditions the gain is equal to the ratio of output to input frequency; for widely separated signal frequencies the modulator has substantial gain, the demodulator an equal loss. Only a relatively small amount of nonlinearity is required to attain a bandwidth equal to the low-signal frequency. Since source and load are matched the sensitivity is zero. 2) Inverting modulator and demodulator-signal frequencies fl and f-=f1-fl. This device is potentially unstable; its input conductance is negative and match is impossible."
"Recent improvements in design and techniques are described which have lowered the noise figure of a developmental traveling-wave amplifier from 9 db to 6 db. Some selected tubes have had noise figures as low as 4.8 db. The improved tube is now commercially available as the RCA-6861 low-noise traveling-wave tube. A general explanation of beam noise is presented and the presently employed noise-reducing schemes and theories are discussed in relation to the 6861. The specific factors contributing to the very low-noise figures are evaluated, including low helix loss, low QC with high circuit impedance, maximum beam diameter with minimum intercepted current, a flexible low-noise gun, and, most important, a smooth and highly emissive dense oxide cathode operating at about 600°C. Application considerations are also discussed, including phase sensitivity, life, saturation effects (modulation and harmonic generation), allowable voltage variations, and typical noise figure, gain, and match over the 2700-to-3500-mc frequency range of the tube."
"Starting from a general partial differential equation of the second order, which includes the equations of Laplace, of Poisson, and those of semiconductor diffusion problems, an equivalent equation with finite differences is discussed. This leads to resistance and to resistance-capacitance networks. Resistance chains are applied to high vacuum diodes of one-dimensional character (plane, circular, and spherical systems). Results are within about a per cent of the exact solutions. Resistance-capacitance chains and networks are applied to semiconductor diffusion problems with space and surface recombination, yielding known and new results pertaining to p-n diodes. A plane resistance network is applied to a triode with electronic space charge and yields the anode current vs grid voltage curve within a few per cents of the published value. These results may lead to considerable savings in the design of new tubes."
"Techniques are presented for the calculation of the statistical properties of the resultant carrier-to-noise ratios of systems subject to both additive and multiplicative noise. The cases considered are those in which the desired signal is either steady or exhibits Rayleigh fading while the interference consists of receiver noise plus an interfering signal which may be steady, Rayleigh fading, Gaussian fading, or Rayleigh fast fading with slow Gaussian fading of the median of the Rayleigh distribution. The results of the indicated calculations are presented graphically. A simple process is outlined for converting the data presented for use with any other signal strength. The utility of the data is demonstrated by a sample calculation the results of which are presented graphically. This calculation derives threshold data for the system as a function of desired signal power with the percentage of time that it operates in one of its two possible modes (fading or nonfading) as a parameter. Attention is called to the technique demonstrated in the Appendix. This result appears quite useful in many joint or combination probability problems, especially those requiring numerical solutions. Although this paper stemmed from work on line-of-sight microwave links, the results may be useful in other applications in the hf, vhf, and uhf regions."
"Consideration is given to simultaneous asynchronous oscillations in systems having a moving reference point. The system chosen for study is a Class-C pentode oscillator. It is shown, both analytically and experimentally, that self-starting asynchronous oscillations are attainable in such a system. Transient and steady-state solutions are obtained for the Class-C oscillator containing one and two degrees of freedom. The method of analysis employed is that of equivalent linearization as described by Kryloff and Bogoluiboff. The existence of asynchronous oscillations is also explained by the phenomenon of negative discrimination."
"Methods of using diversity to improve frequencyshift keyed receptions in the presence of Rayleigh fading are analyzed. In the absence of prior information about signal amplitude and phase, square-law combination is optimum; the error rate for this combination method has been found. If signal amplitude and phase are exactly known prior to reception of the signal, coherent combination and detection are optimum; at low error probability this yields only a 3-db improvement. Nonoptimum switch diversity yields only slightly less diversity gain than square-law combination. For dual diversity, correlation of the fading on the separate antennas does not give a large loss if the correlation coefficient is moderate. Correlated noise yields a similar small loss."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Provides a listing of abstract numbers, Proceedings issue, and pages for the articles published in this volume of the Proceedings."
"A name followed by \"and\" is that of the first author of a jointly written paper, while the word \"with\" indicates that the name indexed is that of the second author."
"Numbers refer to chronological list."
"Presents revisions to various equations and formulas as well as text from selected articles."
"A selection of the journals which are regularly scanned for content of interest to our readers is given here, together with the addresses of publishers or editorial offices and the abbreviations of titles as used in the Abstracts and References. Applications for copies of any journal should be made to the addresses given. The full title of each journal is given first and is followed by the address, the abbreviated title being shown within parentheses. In a few cases the nature of a journal is indicated, where neither the title nor the address shows it clearly."
"The Solid-State Devices Committee of the IRE and AIEE which organized this special issue felt it proper to honor the co-inventors of the transistor. To this end we have asked each gentleman to write a short essay, and these are given first place in the body of this issue. We delight in paying tribute to the superb experimental technique of Dr. Brattain, the deep theoretical understanding of Dr. Bardeen, and the creative genius of Dr. Shockley. There are sixteen invited papers in this issue. The honor to the authors of these papers is enhanced by the method by which they were chosen. A letter survey was conducted asking nationally prominent men in the field to suggest authors for topics we considered desirable to cover in this issue. In most cases the authors were selected by popular vote in this survey. Our list of topics also was enhanced by the same survey. Many thousands of man hours have gone into the preparation of this issue and we hope it will serve the field for many years to come as an important reference work."
"During the past ten years the transistor has invaded every phase of the electronics industry. Its important features are its high efficiency at low power levels, its reliability, and its potential low cost. Presented here are the major milestones and problems which were overcome and led to devices that cover a broad field of electronic technology, and to the growth of a new industry."
"New semiconductors capable of competing with germanium and silicon in transistor applications must be looked for among the compound semiconductors, and more specifically among the III-V and IV-IV compounds. Gallium arsenide and indium phosphide are the most promising all-round materials for high-frequency as well as high-temperature performance. Indium antimonide and indium arsenide may be of interest for extremely high-frequency transistors operating at low temperatures The aluminum compounds, gallium phosphide and silicon carbide, are potentially useful for very high operating temperatures at the cost of high-frequency performance. Some of the unusual properties of the compound semiconductors have led to novel methods of junction preparation and new junction structures, such as the surface-diffusion and the widegap junction. Bipolar and unipolar surface-diffusion transistors have been demonstrated in indium phosphide, and the wide-gap emitter principle for high injection efficiency has been experimentally verified in gallium arsenide transistors. Electron lifetimes in these two compound semiconductors are estimated from the transistor results."
"Semiconductor devices other than transistors and rectifying cells are useful and some are becoming important in solidstate electronic-systems technology. It is shown how one possible system of classification for all semiconductor devices can be set up. The system starts by listing a complete set of semiconductor properties and a complete set of external influences which can modify the semiconductor attributes. Devices are then classified in order of complication with respect to semiconductor attributes with external influences being applied singly, in pairs, and so on. It is not claimed that this system is a tool for invention of new devices, but it could serve to organize creative thought. An attempt is made to list criteria for important devices, and a selection is made of those devices which we predict will be important in the future. The selection is Hall effect devices, thermistor devices, photodevices, and thermoelectric devices. Each of these classes of devices is discussed briefly with respect to important properties, and some applications which have been described in the literature."
"The statistics of recombination and of trapping of electrons and holes through traps of a single species are presented. The results of the Shockley-Read recombination theory are derived and more fully interpreted. A level of energy known as the equality level is introduced. When the Fermi level lies at this level, the four basic processes of electron capture, electron emission, hole capture, and hole emission all proceed at equal rates. Transient cases for large trap density are presented."
"Excess carriers in semiconductors recombine either by direct recombination of electrons and holes, or through the intermediacy of recombination centers. The latter process is the one observed in silicon and germaniun. Various impurity atoms, dislocations, vacancies, and interstitials are known to act as recombination centers. The capture rates associated with these imperfections vary over a wide range depending on their state of charge. Recombination at the surfaces is described in terms of a similar model in which surface states replace the recombination centers present in the bulk. The surface recombination velocity measures the density and capture properties of these states. A given center can act as a recombination center or a trap depending on the relative magnitude of the capture cross sections for electrons and holes. This paper reviews the analytical treatments of the different processes as well as specific experimental results."
"A survey is given of theory and experiments on noise in bulk semiconductors and photoconductors. This paper is divided into four parts, including generation-recombination (gr) noise in semiconductors, gr noise in photoconductors, 1/f noise in single crystals, and modulation noise in granular materials. In the first part an account is given of the appropriate analyses and the results are applied to extrinsic as well as intrinsic fluctuations, generated either in the bulk or at the surface. In the part about photoconductors the limiting sensitivity caused by photon noise is calculated and present infrared detectors are discussed. Next, a survey is given about present understanding of 1/f noise, and of its relation to the field effect as proposed by McWhorter and others. Finally, some remarks are made about 1/f noise in granular material and the proposed theories are briefly reviewed."
"This paper gives a survey of the problem of shot noise and flicker noise in junction diodes and junction transistors. After a short introduction in Section I, the theory of shot effect is presented in Section II. First a simplified low-frequency theory is given and the close correspondence with earlier (heuristic) equivalent circuits is indicated. Then the theory is given in a more rigorous form, both from a collective point of view (Petritz, North, and van der Ziel) and from a corpuscular point of view (Uhlir, van der Ziel and Becking). Finally the conditions under which the theory holds are summed up and the possibility of deviations is discussed. Section III gives Fonger's theory of flicker noise in diodes and transistors and incorporates his discussion of base modulation effects into the equivalent noise circuit in a manner that differs somewhat from Fonger's original presentation. Section IV gives the experimental verification of the theory by Guggenbuehl and Strutt, Nielsen, Hanson and van der Ziel and others and also discusses some further experimental material. Finally, the problem of low-noise circuits, the choice of the operating point of the transistor, and the design criteria for low-noise transistors is discussed. Section V extends Fonger's theory of base modulation effects to shot effect and discusses possible consequences of this effect."
"The known effects of neutron irradiation upon majority and minority carrier properties of germanium and silicon are reviewed, and used as a basis to derive a theoretical expression for the dependence of grounded-emitter current gain of a transistor upon accumulated neutron dose. This theoretical expression assumes a Shockley-Read recombination mechanism in the base of the transistor; the crystal defects introduced by bombardment act as recombination sites. A number of germanium and silicon transistors were irradiated at different facilities; the observed changes in transistor parameters are explained in terms of the theory. This explanation enables determination for germanium of certain basic quantities in recombination theory, viz., the position in the forbidden band of the recombination site (Ec-Et=0.23 ev), and the capture cross section of the site for hole and electron capture (σp= 1.0×10-5 cm2, and σn≃4×10-15 cm2)."
"The photovoltaic effect in p-n junctions can be used to measure the diffusion lengths of minority carriers in a semiconductor. The short-circuit current in an irradiated p-n junction is Ik=egL, where e is the electron charge, g the generation rate (number of electron-hole pairs per unit volume and unit time generated by the radiation), and L a quantity which equals the diffusion length if the position of the p-n junction is suitably chosen. If g is known, the diffusion length can be calculated from the short-circuit current. The generation rate can easily be calculated if the junction is irradiated by γ rays from a Co60 source. The method will be described more closely in this paper. Diffusion lengths were measured in Si, GaAs, and InP containing a p-n junction. In GaAs diffusion lengths up to 8 μ were measured, and up to 130 μ in InP."
"The diffusion of group III and group V impurities into germanium and silicon is reviewed. Observed and possible variations of the diffusion coefficient with concentration are discussed, followed by a summary of the diffusion coefficients and of solutions to the diffusion equation. Finally, methods for the evaluation of diffused layers and diffusion techniques are described."
"A new approach to the fabrication of semiconductor devices has been investigated. This approach allows the processing of large semiconductor wafers to a point where they can be diced into numerous and identical devices. Lapping, instead of etching, is employed for all shaping of the units, and the high degree of precision built into the lapping apparatus is passed on to all of the devices prepared. The approach is applicable to the fabrication of a great variety of semiconductor devices. Unipolar, photo-unipolar, as well as bipolar transistors and negative resistance devices, have been fabricated. These devices exhibit superior electrical characteristics. Silicon power transistors have current transfer ratios in the 20 to 40 range and power gains from 30 to 40 db. Silicon unipolar transistors have transconductances in the neighborhood of 500 μmhos and input resistance of about 100 megohms. Silicon photo-unipolar transistors show a dc photo response of 2 to 20 a per 1m."
"The outdiffusion process, which consists of the extraction of impurities from a semiconductor wafer by heating it to an elevated temperature in a high vacuum, is shown to be a practical method for the production of diodes and transistors. The usefulness of outdiffusion as a technique for device fabrication depends on how easily impurities can be evaporated from the crystal surface. The surface-evaporation velocity K which characterizes the ease of removal of impurities has been determined for the evaporation of antimony out of germanium at 700°C and is (1.5±0.5)×10-8 cm/sec. This value is large enough to indicate that it is definitely feasible to make high-frequency devices by outdiffusion. Narrow base germanium computer diodes have been fabricated that have a forward drop of 0.11 volt at 1 ma and that switch at speeds up to 5 mc. The operation of these graded base diodes is analyzed. Germanium n-p-n graded base transistors have also been fabricated which have grounded-emitter current gains, ß, of over 100 and alpha frequency cutoffs, fαco, of above 200 mc."
"The rectifying action in semiconductor p-n junctions is controlled essentially by the equilibrium densities, diffusion constants, and recombination times of minority carriers. The low-level behavior of germanium junctions at room temperature is adequately described by a theory which is based on the rate of diffusion and recombination of minority carriers on either side of the barrier region. It is necessary to include the effects of carrier recombination and generation in the barrier region to explain the low-level behavior of silicon. At high current densities, the junctions depart from the ideal low-level rectifier law because of effects associated with majority carrier modulation. As a consequence of recombination current to the barrier region at low levels and conductivity modulation effects at high levels, the simple I8(exp qV/kT-1) behavior is rarely observed in silicon junctions at room temperature."
"Analytical solutions of space-charge regions in semiconductors can be carried out when a one-dimensional symmetry exists. Analog solutions can be used to solve Poisson's equation for more complex geometries. An analog method is described which has been used with some success. This method consists of a rubber membrane with surface mass loading being used to simulate the semiconductor space charge."
"Two general types of rectifier are singled out for review in this paper. These are the silicon and germanium large area p-n junction rectifying cells. A discussion is given of various phenomena which have a bearing upon the volt-ampere characteristics. Methods for fabricating the various kinds of p-n junctions into rectifying cells are described and typical volt-ampere characteristics are given. Finally, a brief summary of the kinds of applications these rectifiers have filled is provided with some typical illustrations."
"Graded p-n junctions that can be fabricated by solidstate diffusion are low-loss nonlinear capacitors at microwave frequencies. These diodes can be used to make low-noise amplifiers, amplifying frequency converters, harmonic and subharmonic generators, switches, limiters, and voltage-tuned passive circuits. Single junctions can control many watts of microwave power. Point-contact diodes are nonlinear resistors and as yet are unchallenged as microwave rectifiers. At lower frequencies, nonlinearresistance action can be obtained in p-n junctions by introducing recombination centers. A p-i-n diode is resistive at high frequencies. The value of the resistance depends upon the dc current. This variable resistance can be used as a broad-band microwave switch or attenuator. At low current densities, the p-i-n structure functions as a transmission line and so can serve as a support, protection, and connection for small-area p-n junctions made in the same single crystal of silicon."
"Recently developed techniques in three broad areas have been drawn upon to help solve the problem of improving microwave mixer diode performance. Specifically examined were the advantages offered by: 1) pertinent processes from the latest transistor technology, 2) new semiconductor materials, notably gallium arsenide, indium arsenide, and indium antimonide, and 3) cooling. These techniques and their theoretical bases are described, and supporting experimental evidence is presented. Use of these techniques can extend the frequency range in which detector sensitivity is good by an order of magnitude, from about 105 mc to 106 mc. In some cases, the already good sensitivity below 104 mc can be improved by an order of magnitude (from a receiver temperature of 2000°K to 200°K). In addition, burnout resistance in radar-detector applications can be improved by an order of magnitude. The technology described is also applicable to a number of other microwave-detector problems, e.g., those encountered in various types of video receivers, these applications are dealt with to some extent."
"The operation of germanium photodiodes at room temperature both as reverse-biased and photovoltaic detectors is analyzed. This analysis takes into account generation of hole-electron pairs in the base as an exponentially decreasing function of distance from the surface. General expressions are derived for the steady-state and the time-varying detector signal components. The intrinsic frequency behavior (that associated with carrier diffusion from the point of generation to the p-n junction) is the same for reverse-biased and photovoltaic operation. The frequency-cutoff behavior is compared with that of a homogeneous base transistor and, for the case of small loss of photogenerated carriers by surface recombination, it is shown that the cutoff frequencies are essentially the same for identical base width. Photodiodes may be useful at modulating frequencies well above this cutoff frequency if the radiation is penetrating since for this type of radiation the intrinsic frequency response does not decrease rapidly above cutoff. The equivalent circuits for both reverse-biased and photovoltaic operation are obtained as is the noise-equivalent circuit for reverse-biased operation. It is shown that at frequencies where 1/f noise may be neglected, for most small-signal applications reverse-biased operation is greatly superior to photovoltaic operation. With a reduction in base width the intrinsic frequency cutoff will be increased, the bulk and surface recombination loss of photogenerated carriers decreased, and the diffusion capacitance associated with the p-n junction in photovoltaic operation reduced. Thus, improvements in both reverse-biased and photovoltaic operation are realized."
"During the past ten years the junction triode has been studied extensively in attempts to improve the understanding of the device. The resulting increase in understanding has made possible improvements in both device design and in transistor-circuit design. Highlights of these studies including references to approximately 100 papers, are reviewed in this paper from the point of view of relating electrical characteristics to the physical construction of the device. First the ideal-diode model resulting from Shockley's 1949 analysis of the junction triode is reviewed, Then the differences between experimentally observed electrical characteristics and the corresponding characteristics of the ideal model, together with their explanations presented in the literature, are described, The dc characteristics are discussed first, followed by a detailed description of the increased understanding of the small-signal parameters. Other topics reviewed briefly include the effect of non-one-dimensional current flow, and switching characteristics of the triode."
"Lumped models are shown which can be used to approximate the properties of transistors and diodes over a wide range of conditions and applications. Two analytical procedures lead to a lumped model approximating a distributed system. In the familiar one, a differential analysis of the distributed system is made, subsequently a rational approximation is made to the transcendental functions resulting from the differential analysis. In the other, one makes a lumped model at the outset to approximate the distributed system and analyzes it. The lumping approximation at the outset generally simplifies the analysis and permits consideration of phenomena which would be prohibitive to analyze on a differential basis. Throughout, it provides a close tie of analysis to the physical phenomena involved. A lumped model for diffusion transistors is shown here which is analogous in end result to the Ebers-Moll model. The simple model is subsequently amended to account for the drift phenomenon, photo effects and avalanche multiplication."
"The effect of two-dimensional current flow in a junction transistor at high frequencies is analyzed, with particular emphasis on the rectangular geometry employed for grown-junction transistors. At high frequencies, the distributed nature of the base region must be taken into account in general. For example, in the usual equivalent circuit for the transistor, the ohmic base resistance ϒb' must be replaced in general by a complex base impedance, which decreases in magnitude with increasing frequency as a result of a high-frequency internal biasing effect. The effect of this modification upon circuit performance is discussed, and transistor design considerations are outlined briefly. An approximate distributed model is used for the analysis, but it is shown in Appendix II that the solutions thus obtained are consistent with the equations governing twodimensional current flow in a semiconductor region."
"The fabrication of high-frequency transistors by the alloy-diffusion method is described. A group of transistors was subjected to an extensive series of measurements in order to establish an equivalent circuit characterizing the transistor for small ac amplitudes at à fixed dc bias. The resulting \"physical\" T-equivalent circuit is valid up to at least 25 mc. The different circuit elements are discussed with respect to their physical background. A translation from the T-circuit into the electrically more convenient π-circuit is also presented."
"Various designs of the micro-alloy diffused transistor (MADT) have been perfected for different classes of service. A highspeed switching version, operating in low-voltage saturating circuits with a current gain of 10, gives turn-off and turn-on times of 5 mμsec. Base-gated scale-of-two counters have operated at input rates as high as 140 megapulses per second with these transistors. A highfrequency, low-noise amplifier provides neutralized gain of 20 db at 100 mc with a noise figure of 4 db. A high-frequency, high-power oscillator-amplifier having a thermal impedance of 100°C per watt yields power outputs as great as 1.0 w at 70 mc. This paper discusses the control of design variables, including base width, impurity gradient, and positioning of emitter and collector junctions in the gradient, and describes some of the new circuit and measurement techniques evolved for these units."
"This paper presents a physical analysis which establishes that the phase shift associated with the common-base current gain of a junction transistor is of the type defined by Bode as \"minimum.\" The phase of the common-base current gain is therefore uniquely determined by its magnitude characteristic. Using the minimum phase properties of networks and the empirically observed behavior of transistor current gain, it is shown that the complete common-base and common-emitter current-gain magnitude and phase frequency characteristics can be determined from three amplitude measurements, namely the low frequency α, α0, the magnitude of the common-emitter current gain at a single frequency in the common-emitter cutoff region, and the common-base cutoff frequency ƒα. The paper develops the equations for determining the common-emitter and common-base short-circuit current gains from these three magnitude measurements."
"The objectives of power transistor design are expressed in general terms which make evident the reason for certain trends in the development. The design theory is discussed in terms of the physical phenomena which are believed to be important at high current densities and high voltages. The course of development over the past ten years is then described in terms of the important factors revealed by the design theory. A brief discussion of the present status of power transistor development is followed by speculation as to the probable future results of continued development."
"A method of measuring the thermal resistance of transistors using the collector cutoff current as an indicator is described. The author uses a series of two steps to determine the overall junction-to-ambient thermal resistance. This type of arrangement is most accurate and less time consuming than the one-step over-all junction-to-ambient measurement."
"A method for measuring the internal temperature rise of a transistor, making use of the variation of alpha with temperature, is described. It consists of a comparison of static characteristics taken at constant temperature by means of a low-averagepower pulse technique and characteristics taken under continuous power dissipation. The advantage of the method lies in the fact that measurement is made at temperature equilibrium in the hottest portion of the transistor, and is made with current and voltage distributions essentially identical with those encountered in normal operation."
"A 5-watt, 10-mc, silicon power transistor has been developed. The device, made by solid-state diffusion, uses the intrinsic-barrier structure. Although primarily designed as a 5-watt, 10-mc oscillator, some laboratory samples have delivered as much as one watt of power when used as oscillators at 100 mc. As an amplifier at 10 mc, a unilateral gain in excess of 20 db is obtained at the 5-watt output level. The design, static characteristics, characterization in terms of an equivalent circuit, and performance data are given."
"An extensive series of silicon n-p-n alloyed transistors has been made. One set of these transistors has base thicknesses of 40-45 μ; the other, 55-60 μ. In each group the base resistiv ity is varied from 2 ohm-cm to 7000 ohm-cm. The \"blocking capability\" of these transistors is plotted against base resistivity. The results are compared with theory. Agreement is good. Details of the current-voltage characteristic are discussed. Three base resistivity regions are distinguished: 1) pure breakdown; 2) approximately simultaneous occurrence of breakdown and punch-through; and 3) pure punch-through."
"The theoretical derivation in this paper is concerned first with the determination of an effective emitter area for a transistor with cylindrical geometry. From this it follows that out of the total emitter area only the border region in a width of one diffusion length is effective. This result is applied to a geometry of concentric emitter and base rings, each being considerably broader than two diffusion lengths. For comparing theory and experiment in such a geometry, different emitter rim lengths are realized easily when the different base rings are connected successively with one another and the emitter rings are also treated in the same manner. Theory and experiments agree. As a second theoretical contribution, the Appendix contains a rigorous solution for a special three-dimensional transistor model."
"An investigation is made of the electrical characteristics of three-terminal silicon p-n-p-n structures, where electrical contact is made to both outer (emitter) regions and to one of the inner (base) regions. When the base current Ib is zero, the V-I characteristic naturally is identical to the two-terminal case, i.e., ranges of high and low impedance separated by a region of differential negative resistance. Base current supplied from an independent, external circuit is found to decrease the breakover (peak) voltage and to decrease the turn-off current, i.e., the current at which the device enters the low impedance state. In fact, the p-n-p-n triode is found to exhibit switching properties closely analogous to the conventional thyratron. As an extension of earlier work, a general analysis of four-region structures is presented and is applied specifically to the p-n-p-n triode. Much of the detailed behavior of the device can be explained in terms of this analysis, and theoretical curves are given which are in good agreement with the experimental results."
"A silicon p-n-p-n switch (two or three terminal) whose operation depends in part upon electric field transport of minority carriers is described. In a p-n-p-n structure relying upon an electric field to increase one internal alpha sufficiently to produce switching, the \"turn-on\" current is related to minority-carrier lifetime (diffusion length) and to the resistivity, area, and base width of the section depending upon field transport. It is shown that at least one base region can be of relatively large dimension. This increases \"turn-on\" current, \"on\" impedance, and \"turn-off\" time, but allows greater freedom in some aspects of device design and fabrication at not a great increase of the characteristics mentioned. In particular, two and three terminal p-n-p-n switches, dependent in part upon field transport, can be designed as signal devices or as power devices. Certain features of three-terminal p-n-p-n operation are discussed and experimental results presented."
"In recent years, the transistor has replaced the vacuum tube for most switching applications. This change has been brought about by the near-ideal switching characteristics of transistors, their low power requirements and long life. The purpose of this paper is to acquaint the reader with the basic principles of several circuit philosophies presently in use. Some advantages and disadvantages of these philosophies are given."
"Communications equipment in its various forms poses design problems which encompass nearly all facets of the electronics art. Transistors, as they exist today, can perform a large percentage of the functions required in comminications systems. A brief discussion of a number of circuit techniques which are useful in the application of transistors to communications equipment is presented. Representative equipments, which indicate the state of the art, are described."
"This paper deals with the analysis and design of transformerless pulse generators which utilize clamped transistors as active nonlinear elements and passive RCL components as linear timing networks. RC and RCL monostable multivibrators are considered and approximate design procedures are developed for each of the basic types. Line-driving applications are discussed and experimental results are described."
"A unified approach to the design of junction transistor oscillators is presented, based on a study of the dynamic admittance presented to the load at the oscillation frequency by a bilateral active four-pole network with passive feedback. The method, applicable to practical oscillator arrangements, leads to simple design expressions when appropriately simplified transistor parameters are used. The equivalent circuit used is suitable for transistors operating by drift and/or diffusion of minority carriers in the base region. Oscillation to the highest possible frequencies, or with the highest possible load, is achieved with optimized feedback networks; for practical transistor oscillators, these are found to be easily designable in terms of the transistor parameters h11 and α. An expression for the maximum frequency of oscillation, fm, valid for transistors operating by drift and/or diffusion, leads to new methods for the measurement of certain high-frequency transistor parameters."
"This paper attempts to bring up to date the information on fundamental properties of silicon and germanium. Much the same topics are covered as in the author's earlier article \"Properties of Silicon and Germanium\" (henceforth referred to as I), which appeared in the 1952 Transistor Issue of PROCEEDINGS. Also included is some of the detailed knowledge on the band structure which has been obtained since 1952. This is essential to the understanding of many of the properties of these materials."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The Secretary's Report is published so the membership may be informed of the more important factors affecting the operation of Institute. Topics covered include membership issues, publication of the Proceedings, Sections news, Awards, finance matters, death announcements, and reviews of recent meetings"
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"We are privileged to present in the following pages a series of reports covering the major activities of the Twelfth General Assembly of the International Scientific Radio Union (URSI) held in Boulder, Colo. last summer. The material was prepared especially for this issue by officials of the seven US Commissions of URSI, under the coordinating guidance of Frederic H. Dickson, international Vice-Chairman of Commission IV and member of the US National Committee of URSI."
"The International Union of Radio Science (French: l'Union Radio-Scientifique Internationale, or URSI) was officially created in 1919, during the Constitutive Assembly of the International Research Council, based on the earlier Commission Internationale de Telegraphie sans Fil (1913-1914) when the only radio communication system was radiotelegraphy. It has held a general assembly every three years from 1922. In each nation which adheres to the international organization, the affairs of URSI are administered by a national committee. In this country the USA National Committee of URSI is organized similar to the international body. It includes representatives of government, industry, and academic institutions. In addition, each of the seven URSI commissions maintains an active membership which is based on a high level of technical competence. Appointments to membership are made by the National Academy of Sciences upon recommendation of the USA National Committee. Delegates to the General Assemblies are drawn from this roster."
"The principle of parametric amplification using lower-frequency pumping has been verified in both a nonlinear inductance and a nonlinear capacitance system. In the former a ferrite core was used and a 30 per cent power gain was observed at a signal frequency of 10 mc and a pump frequency of 7 mc. The low gain is attributed to the small degree of nonlinearity. The nonlinear capacitance system gave much better results because of the larger degree of nonlinearity. Here a reversed-bias junction diode was used as the nonlinear coupling a signal circuit at 380 mc, an idling circuit at 220 mc, and a pumping circuit at 300 mc. A stable net gain of 20 db was obtained at 380 mc with a pump power of only 30 mw. Strong oscillations at 380 mc set in when the gain exceeded 40 db. The full percentage bandwidth is of the order of 0.3 per cent. The noise factor, with a nonisolated load, is in the order of 10 db."
"A frequency converter based on the generation in a ferrite of magnetization at the required difference frequency between input and output signals to provide an alternating environment for the input signal has been operated, and is compared with theory. The principles of the device are those of the amplifier/oscillator proposed by Suhl. Theory and experiment on the converter agree within the expected error of the latter. The support thus provided for the theory is pertinent to the present case and the original amplifier/oscillator."
"A system has been proposed by Kahn for the generation of an SSB signal which may be received on an AM receiver without distortion in the receiver output signal. For this reason, the system is said to be a \"compatible\" SSB system. The mathematical analysis of this system is fairly simple except for that part of the circuit which performs a limiting of the input full-carrier SSB signal. It is shown that Granlund has analyzed circuits of this type in great detail and that the results of Granlund's work can be used in a very direct manner to obtain a fairly complete analysis of the Kahn system. From the resulting analysis, computations are made of the CSSB signal spectra for various input signal conditions. The theoretical results are also used to predict certain system operating characteristics. The results obtained are presented without comment as no attempt is made to evaluate the Kahn system relative to other compatible SSB systems which have been proposed."
"The results of an investigation of overwater tropospheric propagation under both summer (July, 1955) and winter (February, 1956) conditions are presented. Transmissions were from a point on the south shore of Massachusetts, near New Bedford, to a ship traveling along great circle courses to a maximum distance of 630 nautical miles (724 statute miles) from the transmitter. A 10-kw, 385.5-mc transmitter feeding a 28-foot paraboloid antenna was used for the summer phase. For the winter investigation, this same facility was used, supplemented by a 40-kw transmitter feeding a 60-foot paraboloid for use at the greater distances. The frequency used for the winter was 412.85 mc. The receiving antenna aboard the ship was a 17-foot paraboloid for both series of tests. All antennas were horizontally polarized and approximately 100 feet above sea level. The data obtained are presented to show the median path loss vs distance. The strip chart recordings of the received signal levels were analyzed with respect to fading characteristics in an effort to separate out those transmissions which were enhanced by superrefractive conditions. The fast fading signals, which were well represented by the Rayleigh distribution, were assumed to be unaffected by superrefractive conditions. The data for the fast-fading Rayleigh type signals appear to show a cyclic variation of the attenuation rate with distance although there is no substantial deviation from a linear rate of between 0.16 and 0.18 db per nautical mile."
"Hall effect and radiation pressure, as different manifestations of the same basic phenomenon, have both been successfully applied to the measurement of microwave power, using semiconductors for the purpose. Attention is called to the part played by displacement current at these frequencies and the conclusion is drawn that such currents are much more significant in relation to radiation pressure than to Hall effect. A wattmeter depending for its operation on the Hall effect is described and it is shown to give accurate measurements whatever the nature of the load."
"This paper calls attention to some of the most important and easily recognizable forms of surface wave, pointing out that their essential common characteristic is the evanescent field structure over the wave front, as represented by equiphase planes. The problems of launching and supporting surface waves must, in general, be distinguished from one another and it does not necessarily follow that because a particular surface is capable of supporting a surface wave that a given aperture distribution of radiation, e.g. a vertical dipole, can excite such a wave. The paper concludes with a discussion of the behavior of surface waves and their applications."
"In \"IRE Standards on Television: Measurement of Luminance Signal Levels, 1958,\" (Standard 58 IRE 23. S1) which appeared on pages 483-486 of the February, 1958 issue of Proceedings of the IRE, the horizontal scale in Fig. 2 on page 484 was not drawn correctly below 1 mc. Going back to the primary data with that read from the published curve, corrected results are obtained. This comparison shows that errors of the order of 0.2 db can be made if the scale below 1 mc is used as a purely arbitrary scale. If the curve is read only at the marked divisions along the horizontal scale, the error is of the order of 0.1 db (or less)."
"The method of measurement of conducted interference from television (TV) and FM broadcast receivers is described by two current IRE Standards. These are \"IRE Standards on Receivers: Methods of Measurement of Interference Output of Television Receivers in the Range of 300 to 10,000 KC, 1954\" (Standard 54 IRE 17.S1l) and \"IRE Standards on Methods of Measurement of the Conducted Interference Output of Broadcast and Television Receivers in the Range of 300 KC to 25 MC, 1956\" (Standard 56 IRE 27.S12). In the measurement of conducted interference, it has been determined that the network formerly employed to deliver an RF input signal to the receiver under test has been responsible for some inconsistency. Accordingly, this Supplement is issued to describe a new procedure in which the old coupling network is replaced with a resistive pad having properties that are well defined and easily reproduced. The Standard 56 IRE 27.S1 represented an amendment to the earlier Standard 54 IRE 17.S1. The present supplement further modifies Standard 54 IRE 17.S1."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A review is given of the chemical compositions, structures, performance characteristics, and applications of various primary and secondary batteries. Both batteries produced presently, and those in the development stages are included. The following primary batteries have been discussed: dry, solidelectrolyte, wet, reserve, fuel, and EMF standards. The secondary battery section covers a review of lead-acid, nickel-iron, nickelcadmium, zinc-silver oxide, and cadmium-silver oxide batteries. Also included is a review of the various nuclear batteries and solar converters showing the relationship to each other and the electrochemical batteries."
"Tetrode amplifiers (resnatrons) used to power the Minnesota Linear Proton Accelerator are described. These demountable tubes are continuously pumped, grid pulsed 202-mc amplifiers capable of a peak power output of 3.5 megw during 300-μsec pulses with two per cent duty cycle. A transconductance of 0.12 mho and power gains of 10 have been observed. Reliability has been surprisingly good. Life limitation is due to crystallization of the pure tungsten filaments. The average time between pull-downs because of filament trouble varies from 700 to 1140 hours of operation. The lower life corresponds to higher power service conditions."
"This paper is mainly concerned with the effects of the troposphere and ionosphere on the propagation of vhf and uhf radio waves. Tropospheric refractive index profiles and ionospheric electron density models representative of average atmospheric conditions are presented. Mathematical relationships are derived for calculating refraction effects, time delays, Doppler errors, polarization changes, and attenuation experienced by radio waves traversing the entire atmosphere."
"A brief description is given of the typical tropical thundercloud and the electrical discharges associated with it. The discharge that contributes significantly to noise in the medium waveband is described in greater detail. There follows a systematic physical analysis of how the atmospheric noise impulse as heard by the ear arises and how it causes annoyance to the listener of broadcast programs. Hence, criteria are developed both for the measurement and estimation of atmospheric noise in the band. The method of analysis is similar to the one adopted by the author in a previous communication on atmospheric noise interference to short wave broadcasting. The results of the investigation are expected to hold over the frequency range, 0.23 to 2.5 mc."
"An analysis of the situation in point-to-point radio communication circuits at frequencies below MUF with respect to radiation in undesired directions brings to the fore some aspects which are useful as guide lines in antenna research, design, and application engineering. In many cases, the interference experienced in operating receivers in the high-frequency range can be attributed primarily to the relatively high side lobes of the radiation pattern of rhombic antennas. Progress has been made in suppressing these side lobes through the development of antenna arrays employing nonuniform amplitude distributions and, more recently, through the advent of modified horn-type antennas. Other sources of interference which are usually overlooked are associated with balanced open-wire lines which are not operated properly. Recently, it has become feasible to replace these lines by coaxial cable using broad-band balun transformers."
"A single quantitative measure of amplifier spot noise performance is established. It removes difficulties heretofore associated with the effect of feedback upon spot noise performance. This measure, (Me)opt, is a function of the amplifier noise and circuit parameters alone. It determines the lowest spot noise figure achievable at high gain with a given amplifier, which is used either alone or in a passive interconnection with other amplifiers of the same (Me)opt. Moreover, passive interconnection of amplifiers with different (Me)opt cannot lead to a spot noise figure at high gain better than that obtainable by using only amplifiers of the smallest (Me)opt. (Me)opt is, therefore, a valid measure of the absolute quality of amplifier noise performance. In many important cases the best noise performance attainable with a particular type of amplifier is actually achieved by a simple cascade in which the input of each stage is properly mismatched. The mismatch conditions for each stage do not in general coincide with those normally used to \"minimize\" its noise figure. In the case of a two-terminal-pair negative resistance amplifier, a limiting form of which is the maser, optimization may always be obtained using an ideal circulator."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The direct conversion of heat into useful electrical work without utilization of moving mechanical parts has been successfully achieved in a novel device called the thermoelectron engine. This device is a heat engine in the thermodynamic sense because the working fluid, an electron gas, receives heat at a high temperature, rejects heat at a lower temperature, and delivers useful electrical work to an external load. This heat engine is also a thermionic device in that the electron gas is produced by emission from a hot cathode in a vacuum and by absorption or condensation of the electrons on a colder anode at a higher negative potential. The basic principle underlying this heat engine is that a calculable fraction of electrons emitted from a hot cathode possess sufficiently high values of emission velocity to overcome a retarding electrostatic potential barrier between cathode and anode in a vacuum. Thus these electrons can transform their high initial value of kinetic energy into useful potential energy at the colder anode; this potential energy can then be utilized by connecting cathode and anode externally through a matched impedance in the form of a load. Hence, this engine utilizes a selection process which results in a large value of output voltage per unit cell compared with the output of a thermoelectric generator per unit thermocouple."
"Observations during the last days of Sputnik I's orbiting are presented. These observations were made at The Ohio State University Radio Observatory using a simple CW reflection technique. The data suggest that the breakup of an artificial satellite upon its reentry into the denser atmosphere is a complex phenomenon in which a sequential series of events may occur over a period of days. Graphs of the average height of the satellite and its associated fragments as a function of time are presented, and some conclusions are drawn as to the details of the actual breakup phenomenon."
"This paper contains a theoretical treatment of noise in maser amplifiers and the results of experimental measurements of the noise of an ammonia beam maser. The concept of \"effective input noise temperature\" is defined and used. The theoretical treatment obtains an equivalent microwave circuit and derives expressions for the gain and effective input noise temperature of both reflection and transmission-type masers. The experimental measurements yielded values of about 80°K for the effective input noise temperature of a reflection-type ammonia beam maser. The experimental values agree with those predicted by theory and the comparison of experiment and theory gives an upper limit of about 20°K for the magnitude of the \"beam temperature.\""
"The spherical coil is an idealized form of inductor having, on a spherical surface, a single-layer winding of constant axial pitch. Its magnetic field inside is uniform and outside is that of a small coil or magnetic dipole. Its properties exemplify exactly some of the rules that are approximately applicable to practical inductors. Simple formulas are given for self-inductance, mutual inductance, coupling coefficient, effect of iron core, and radiation power factor in free space or sea water. This coil is the basis for evaluating the shielding effect of a closed conductive (nonmagnetic) metal shell. A special winding is described which enables simple and exact computation of self-resonance (the length of wire being just 1/2 wavelength in some cases)."
"One of two correlated, equal energy, equiprobable waveforms is transmitted through a channel during a given time interval. The signal is corrupted in the channel by slowly-varying, frequency-nonselective fading and by additive, Gaussian noise. On reception, the corrupted signal is processed by an ideal receiver, which guesses that the transmitted waveform was the one which it computes to be a posteriori most probable. Expressions for the probability of committing an error in making such a guess are derived for both coherent and noncoherent receivers; these are studied in detail, and some general trends and system design considerations are noted. In an illustrative example, the results are applied to binary frequency-shift keyed (FSK) systems with various pulse shapes and frequency separations."
"This paper is a contribution to the problem of diffraction of EM waves by the smooth crest of a perfectly reflecting mountain. Model experiments at K-band frequencies with mountains of various radii of curvature have been made. The results are compared to an improved Fresnel theory where the reflections of the waves at the surface of the cylinder near its crest are taken into consideration and a correction factor from Fock's theory of grazing incidence is used. The results are also compared to Artmann's and Rice's theories."
"Propagation at 250-10,000 mc often encounters: 1) dense fadings where the radio signal fluctuates spatially with large amplitudes and small spacings from maxima to minima, e.g. amplitudes of up to 40 db and spacings at 3000 mc of 1 mile; 2) radio holes, where the signal falls spatially to a level often 15 db or more below the levels outside; 3) antiholes, where the signal fluctuates spatially with large amplitudes and irregular spacings; 4) radio ducting, including cases where the transmitter or receiver is far above a ducting layer in the air. The anomalies (1-4) are portrayed by ray tracings using a differential analyzer which solves the simplified ray equation d2h an(h, x) I dx2 ah a Both hypothetical-prototype and complex-measured refractive index profiles of the atmosphere are used for the analog computation of the ray tracings which are interpreted to explain refraction anomalies in radio-wave propagation and are compared with signal-strength measurements. They involve divergence of rays, and concentration and crossing of direct rays in multipath transmission. Resulting radar angular and range errors are shown where the radar sights a target at a) multiple elevation angles, of under 1 degree, which deviate by up to few tenths of a degree from the angle obtained if the atmosphere were standard, and b) multiple range corrections, for a 200-mile range, which deviate by few tens of feet from the standard correction."
"The well-known effect of full shot noise of current saturated parts of a cathode and shot-noise suppression under spacecharge-limited conditions is shown to be very useful for evaluation of cathode quality. A test equipment and a practical test performance are described. Test results and their comparison to other methods of cathode evaluation demonstrate the high sensitivity of the proposed test. Alterations of the cathode quality by the method itself are very small. The test has been used in the laboratory for activation studies and cathode life tests during the past three years."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers. The Professional Group on Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics is an organization, within the framework of the IRE, of members with principal professional interest in Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics. All members of the IRE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive all Group publications upon payment of an annual assessment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A brief introduction and review is presented of the problems of protecting and cooling airborne electronic equipment in present and future high-speed devices. The thermal characteristics associated with high-speed flight of manned and unmanned vehicles are related to the thermal problems of irreversible electrical and magnetic components which possess upper bounds of temperature for reliable operation. Various types of cooling devices, fluid flow processes, and techniques are presented and discussed, and the trends of future development are reviewed briefly."
"High-speed aircraft require the successful operation of large quantities of electronic equipment. The problem of providing a suitable environment for such equipment is of interest to both airplane and electronic designers. A proposal is offered by which cooling provisions may be standardized for airplanes of widely varying performance. Basic design parameters for the development of such a system are outlined, as are the economic factors involved."
"The results of adequate cooling of electronic parts are gains in part life and reliability. An engineering compromise between ideal electronic part temperature and the thermal point of diminishing return must be evaluated not only with respect to desired life, but also in terms of the electronic circuit and cooling efficiencies. This paper outlines the flow of heat within, through, and from heat producing electronic parts in terms of internal thermal limitations, part surface and environmental ratings, and cooling indices. Natural heat flow design data pertinent to conduction cooling of heat sources, tube shields, the placement and mounting of parts, and \"sink connectors\" are presented."
"A brief explanation of the principles of forced-air direct-contact cooling is given, and it is shown that the heat density of the electronic part being cooled determines essentially the range of applicability of this method. The discussion then progresses to cooling problems arising when this concept is applied to airborne electronic equipment. Several techniques are presented for obtaining high heat transfer coefficients and good air distribution with small pressure drops. The use of laminar flow in all of these techniques is shown to be effective, and examples are given of practical applications, such as the use of tube shields and special solenoid designs. Applications of thermal insulation to forced-air direct-contact cooling in aircraft are also treated, and the shortcomings, as well as the advantages of forced-air direct-contact cooling, are pointed out."
"A solution to the problem of cooling certain types of high heat-dissipating airborne electronic equipment is the modification of the equipment chassis to incorporate a simple plate-fin heat exchanger, sometimes called a \"cold plate.\" In this paper equations for cold plates are developed and the effect of variations in fin configuration on performance are discussed. Theoretical and experimental results based on tubes mounted on a cold plate are found to compare very favorably. The application of the cold-plate technique is illustrated for power transistors. This method of cooling is shown to be useful and efficient."
"Based on weight penality comparisons of ultimate heat sinks for electronic equipment cooling, the use of expendable evaporants and fuel is indicated for high supersonic flight. Centralized ram air should be the alternate coolant during subsonic flight. System integration is best accomplished with a recirculating liquid transfer system, which is relatively easy to control and which is characterized by small pumping power, line size, and heat gain from high temperature environments. Because of these features close temperature control of dispersed components and cooling of remote highpower units are best achieved by liquid coupling, regardless of the type of ultimate heat sink. Part temperature rises in high voltage equipment can be minimized by use of dielectric liquids. Although this permits some reduction in ultimnate coolant weight penalty, the reduction is usually not great enough to offset the equipment weight increases that are due to liquid filling. Vapor-filled or air-filled units with minimal liquid contents and liquid transport to part surfaces by capillary action or mechanical means are superior. Electronic assemblies that are to be series cooled in sealed liquid transfer systems should be designed for conduction, forced air convection, or radiation heat transfer from the parts, and high power units should have integral liquid cooled heat exchangers, placed in separate transfer system branches. Internal heat transfer in such units may be attained by conduction through flexible metal or rubber jackets and electrical insulators, by air convection in standard modules, and by liquid film cooling."
"In airborne electronic packages, for either thermal or electrical reasons cooling air often is not ducted directly over the components but is passed through a heat exchanger. Consequently, the thermal path between the heat exchanger and the components must be of low impedance to result in efficient heat transfer. The high heat transfer coefficients obtainable as a liquid boils and condenses permit an effective reduction of the temperature drop between the electronic components and the heat exchanger. In this paper the development and design of an evaporative system utilizing gravity return flow is discussed, and the test results of such a system are compared with those obtained utilizing a conventional metallic conductive paths technique. Where heat dissipation or cooling air inlet temperature is high, the evaporative-gravity (ev-grav) system is shown to be the most effective."
"The quality of heat transfer data depends, to a large extent, on the accuracy of temperature measurements. Errors in temperature measurement may be due to calibration errors and/or application errors. This paper describes some common methods of temperature measurement and estimates the precision commonly attainable with these devices. The calibration of thermometers is also discussed. The problems of surface temperature measurement, fluid temperature measurement, and bulk temperature measurement are discussed in some detail and some specific examples are included."
"Limited heat dissipation from the necessarily compact electronic equipment installations of airline aircraft has been a problem to commercial air carriers for many years. To deal with this problem, United Air Lines, in August, 1955, began equipping fleet aircraft with a forced air electronic equipment cooling system, with the following objectives: 1) improvement of electronic equipment reliability, 2) reduction of crew discomfort caused by electronic-equipment generated heat in the flight deck area, and 3) evacuation of any smoke from the flight deck area which might arise from electronic equipment failure. Observation of electronic equipment maintenance records during the subsequent transition period from convection to forced air equipment cooling shows characteristic failure rate trends which indicate the dependence of equipment reliability on operating temperature. These patterns occur independently in fleet records for the Convair 340, and DC-6 and DC-6B fleets, in time phase with the progress of conversion to forced air cooling in the fleet. These records, in conjunction with other comparative testing of forced cooled and convective cooled equipment installations indicate that forced air cooling provides an effective answer to airline equipment heat problems."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers. The Professional Group on Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics is an organization, within the framework of the IRE, of members with principal professional interest in Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics. All members of the IRE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive all Group publications upon payment of an annual assessment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Interference blankers have been developed to give improvement ratios of the order of 1000 in the presence of severe precipitation static of the order of 150,000 pulses per second. Recently the blanking technique has been applied to ADF receivers with the objectives of simplification, reduced size and weight, improved sensitivity in the presence of interference, reduced intermodulation distortion, maintenance of the relative phases of the sense and loop signals, and general compatibility with ADF receiver operation."
"This paper describes an application of the storage tube to marine radar, for providing an automatic plot of the equipped vessel as well as all other vessels within the radar's range. It further describes a new type of presentation which combines relative motion with true motion in a manner easily understood by the mariner and which requires no understanding by him, of new concepts. In addition to providing six different types of presentation, the system for the first time furnishes a means of directly determining the aspect, true course, and true speed of other vessels without auxiliary plotting and without calculations."
"In attempting to gain some insight into the synthesis and analysis of a stable platform system the simple assumption that the platform can be analyzed on a single-axis basis is adopted. The single-axis analysis is then made applicable to the three-axis case by introducing a coupling factor. Of course, the shortcomings of this assumption, such as the omission of mechanical interactions, must be recognized. The inherently close association of the stability of the servo-system and the basis character of the input-output response will generally require that design requirements be compromised. The servosystem is essential to effect a suitable reduction in the influence of disturbances, and the factors involved in achieving stiffness must necessarily be considered. Finally, in discussing the design and features of the servoamplifiers it should be realized that the conditionally stable character of the system and the large attenuation involved in securing adequate phase lead create a difficult circuitry problem. In this regard, active research and development programs are under way toward the development of improved transistorized amplifiers."
"Automatic navigation of aircraft may be accomplished in a number of ways. Where radiative contact with the ground is satisfactory, systems such as the conventional radio ranges and the more recently developed hyperbolic grid techniques are economical and normally reliable. However, in some regions of the earth and under certain atmospheric conditions, these types of radio aids may not be reliable. Other systems that involve radiative contact with the ground include radio mapping techniques and Doppler navigation; these generally require more expensive airborne equipment, although they are less subject to atmospheric disturbances. But since in military applications radiation from an aircraft furnishes a potential means of enemy detection, such techniques are relatively undesirable. At the present time, Doppler systems are the least subject to this objection. Inertial navigation makes use of acceleration detection and integration for obtaining information on the progress of the aircraft over the surface of the earth. It is independent of radiative contacts, and therefore free from such detection. On the other hand, it is subject to errors resulting from instrumental imperfections. In particular, drift of the essential gyroscopes leads to cumulative errors in indicated position; consequently, pure inertial autonavigators are limited in the flight time over which their indications are satisfactorily accurate. Use of photoelectric telescopes (star trackers) in combination with an inertial system provides a tie to basic inertial space, such as to minimize or eliminate the cumulative effect of gyro drift. Such a combination is known as a stellar inertial autonavigator."
"In order to test and compare various azimuth estimating procedures, use was made of a search radar video simulator and a flexible high-speed digital video processor. The output of the video processor was recorded in digital form and analyzed on a general purpose digital computer. The azimuths of approximately 30,000 simulated targets at signal-to-noise ratios of 3, 6, 10, and 15 db were estimated by several methods. A reliable indication was obtained of the detection efficiency, false alarm rate, and the obtainable azimuth accuracy under a variety of conditions. The data which have been processed so far indicate superior performance of the maximum likelihood method for azimuth estimation purposes. The experimental results are presented in graphical form."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers. The Professional Group on Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics is an organization, within the framework of the IRE, of members with principal professional interest in Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics. All members of the IRE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive all Group publications upon payment of an annual assessment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The history of navigation is described briefly, with particular attention to the rapid progress that has taken place since 1940. The problems still to be solved are outlined, and possible directions of future progress in navigation are discussed. The challenge for the future is highlighted by the observation that it is significant that in one hundred and twenty years, mankind has passed the \"oats, sonic and thermal barriers,\" and now is in a position to discuss openly the ultimate speed barrier of all physical matter."
"For future navigation systems the major problems in development will be as much concerned with the presentation and use of data as with its provision. The relationship between a stated operational requirement and the means developed to meet it are discussed on this basis. The nature of different types of navigational intelligence are considered, and a distinction is drawn between control and monitoring functions. The navigational task is analyzed, and different types of associated displays are examined. Safety considerations call for a degree of redundancy in a complete system, and the importance of avoiding dependence on a single navigational technique is emphasized."
"This paper reviews some of the earlier developments of civil avionic equipment design specifications, and describes how the U.S. Flag Air Carriers now arrive at procurement specifications, and how they determine their current operational needs. The responsibilities and activities of ATA, ARINC, AEEC, and RTCA are described and related to the development and coordination of such specifications."
"The present manual system of air traffic control is described briefly to provide background material for the reader who is not familiar with existing practice. Then follows an outline of the plans for modernization of our national airways system as set forth in the Curtis Report. The body of this paper deals with the plans of Airways Modernization Board for applying computers to air traffic control in its five-year Phase II program."
"A pilot's job has become so complex that he must rely increasingly on support from automatic aids for such functions as aircraft stabilization, navigation, cruise control, and landing. The Transac® C-1100 series digital control computers are designed to handle these functions in a single computer for commercial and military aircraft. The C-1100 computers are entirely transistorized for small size and utmost reliability. While their modular structure allows variations in many features for different applications, the computers are characterized by high precision, typically one part in 106, and fast operation, typically 60,000 additions per second. The general-purpose stored-program organization allows the C-1100 to be shared by various tasks during flight, and enables the same computer to execute a large variety of operations merely by changing the program. A powerful system of internal and external decisions permits the computer to respond to both the en-route instructions by the pilot and to conditions of the system as sensed in one of the 64 data channels. A representative problem involving dead-reckoning and VOR-TAC navigation, automatic control of the aircraft, and fuel management illustrates how the computer is programmed. The functional and physical description should provide the reader with enough background to consider the computer in terms of his own application."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers. The Professional Group on Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics is an organization, within the framework of the IRE, of members with principal professional interest in Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics. All members of the IRE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive all Group publications upon payment of an annual assessment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A comprehensive review is made of the problem of indicating the vertical from moving bases and methods for its solution, both theoretical and practical. This is based on research work carried out at the Instrumentation Laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. The concept of Schuler tuning for precise vertical indication is shown to be a particular application of aided-tracking feedback systems in which proper use of the effect of vehicle acceleration can be made to cancel the dynamic tracking error that otherwise would exist. The 84-minute natural period resulting requires accurate instrumentation. A discussion of equipment suitable for this work concludes the paper."
"A method of determining position error of Doppler navigation systems is discussed which is based on the component errors and on statistical considerations. Sample calculations for four typical systems are presented. The historical behaviorial performance of the three major components of a Doppler navigation system the velocity sensor, the computer, and the heading reference are analyzed and presented graphically. The weight trends of the components of Doppler navigation systems and of the complete systems are described. Possibilities of certain combinations of self-contained and ground-referenced navigation systems are discussed."
"The situation where n stationary, accurately located, direction-finding stations fix the position of an unknown emitter by intersecting angular bearings has been previously investigated by Stansfield for the case where the angular bearings have small, normally distributed errors. The most probable location of the emitter and the surrounding confidence regions were determined. Stansfield's solution is here extended to include the case of airborne direction finding, which introduces uncertainties in the locations of the direction-finding stations. These uncertainties arise from navigation errors and increase the uncertainty of the fix, which is reflected in an increase in the variance of the solution. The increase in uncertainty is derived for celestial, dead reckoning, and direction-finding (Loran, Shoran, etc.) navigational procedures. Small, normally distributed navigation errors are assumed. In addition, a model in which celestial position fixes are taken between direction-finding cuts is investigated. The various procedures are compared."
"The performance of an airborne moving-target indication (MTI) system, designed to detect moving ground targets, is shown to depend upon the video autocorrelation function of the ground return, both with and without a target. The pulse-to-pulse video autocorrelation function is derived, and from it are obtained formulas for MTI cancellation and moving-target enhancement. Results are given only for a square-law detector."
"Some factors that influence radar target detectability on a cathode-ray tube at high ambient light levels, such as occur in fighter airplanes, have been investigated. The signals considered are those that are intensity-modulated, as in B scopes and PPI. The problem is considered to consist of three parts that should be investigated separately: 1) the ambient brightness at which the indicator shall produce detectable signals, 2) the target spot brightness or intensity required for detection in this surround, and 3) the conversion of electrical signals into visual signals in the CRT. In this paper only 2) and 3) are discussed. It is found that with an intensity-modulated display, target detectability is determined by the spot intensity rather than by the spot brightness. The brightness of a conventional CRT shows an early saturation, but the intensity increases uniformly. Neither brightness nor intensity is a linear function of the radar parameters."
"Aspects of electronic part-cooling techniques applicable to 300-500°C equipments are presented. Contrary to some beliefs, the minimization of thermal resistance at these temperatures is as important as at lower temperatures. The significant shifts in the natural modes of heat transfer which occur with high-temperature electronic parts are outlined, together with some recommended methods of cooling high-temperature parts and assemblies."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"A comprehensive listing of the authors, articles and departments included in 1958."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The problems encountered in a study of the transient response of a heat transfer system in which the coolant experiences a phase change are discussed. The differential equations which govern the system are presented. The analog computer circuit is developed from the equations and the peculiarities of the circuit are described. Analog results of a typical coolant flow transient are presented."
"In connection with a continuing program of fundamental research concerning the scattering of fast neutrons, instrumentation has been developed for measuring the energies of 1-4 mev neutrons by means of their flight time over a one-meter path. Some problems involved in measuring the resultant 30-70 mμsec time intervals with an accuracy of a few per cent are discussed, together with the limitations imposed by intensity considerations, presently available photomultipliers, and known electronic recording techniques. Some results are given showing the spectra of neutrons scattered from a primary energy of 4.3 mev by zirconium, carbon, nickel, aluminum, and chromium."
"In the use of a multiplier phototube to measure short time intervals, the accuracy of the measurement is limited by the statistical deviations in the output pulse from the phototube. These deviations arise from variations in the electron transit time in the phototube. This paper reports a technique by which the transit time dispersion in the tube structure can be measured. A beam of electrons is deflected through an aperture onto the first dynode of the photomultiplier by an rf sweep voltage. The output pulse resulting is examined using the sweep voltage as a time base. Values of the order of 1 mμsec were obtained using three commercial type photomultiplier tubes."
"Radiation background intensity has been monitored in Albuquerque, New Mexico, on a continuous, 24-hour basis since February 1, 1955. This paper describes the techniques used in the measurements. As an example, the increase in total dose received in Albuquerque due to the Teapot tests (atomic test series in Nevada, spring of 1955), over what the dose would have been had there been no tests, is determined to be 4.5 milliroentgens (mr)."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Long-distance monitoring of radiation levels can be accomplished economically and reliably over commercial telephone line circuits. The system described was developed for the Atomic Energy Commission for the remote monitoring of gamma radiation resulting from atomic explosions. Though its principal use has been over long distance telephone lines, it can also be used over direct field lines for monitoring sites within approximately 15 miles of the control station. The monitoring stations consume power only durg challenges which last for about two minutes each. Total battery drain is therefore quite low, permitting the stations to remain unattended for long periods."
"An electrometer is described which has been commercially engineered to provide chemists, biologists, and medical technicians with a device for low-level ß counting using an ionization chamber. The operation of the instrument and typical applications are outlined. These include C-14 in gas samples, tritium in gas, and the same isotopes in liquid or solid form."
"A standard photomultiplier tube having uranium coated on the cathode is proposed for use in power reactor control. It will cover the neutron flux range from 106 to 1011 neutrons/sec/cm2 or the range from 103 to 108 neutrons/sec/cm2. The electron multiplier neutron detector will compete with gamma compensated ionization chambers. Electronic discrimination of both gamma induced pulses and the natural alpha activity of the uranium is used to reduce the gamma sensitivity of the system."
"The advantages of long operational life, low-power drain and miniaturization may be realized in nuclear counting circuits through the use of transistors. The disadvantage of instability, due to the effects of temperature change in the transistor, may be minimized in counting circuit designs. The predominant effects are a change in the grounded emitter current gain (beta) and a variation of the leakage current through the transistor (Ico). The binary circuit is analyzed for stability criteria, and may be tested conveniently through a simulation of Ico for the maximum operating temperature. Representative circuits of a binary stage, amplitude discriminator, one-shot multivibrator, and ratemeters are included. These were designed using the criteria of a minimum Beta and a maximum Ico."
"The advantages of transistors over vacuum tubes in radiation instruments have long been realized but a somewhat different approach to circuit design must be followed in developing transistor instruments, as compared with that used in vacuum tube circuits, and this seems to have discouraged many from developing such circuits. The purpose of this paper is to describe in some detail the design principles included in some instruments developed at Chalk River in the past two years. Transistor high-voltage supplies, ratemeters, and pulse amplifiers are discussed and two instruments tusing these elements are described."
"The application of transistors to circuits controlling the rod release for shutdown of a nuclear reactor is described. No vacuum tubes are used in the circuit. The circuits were designed with maximum attention to reliability and fail-safe operation."
"A commercial one-inch vidicon was exposed to a total radiation dosage of approximately 1015 NVT in the Brookhaven National Laboratories Nuclear Pile Reactor. Quantitative tests were devised for measuring tube aperture response, signal, noise, and photoconductor \"dark\" current. No measurable degradation of performance occurred, except for decrease in signal output, which was attributed to radiation browning of the vidicon glass faceplate."
"The pressure of a pressurized water nuclear power plant is maintained by heating water to saturation temperature in a vessel partially filled with water. The water level in this vessel, the pressurizer, must be monitored for safe plant operation. This paper describes the application of a well-known principle of liquid level measurement to this problem. The unusual operating conditions made the development of the device difficult."
"The setup and results of a reactor kinetics and servo-system simulation is presented. The reactor, a 50-megawatt high flux materials and engineering test reactor designated Belgian Reactor-2, is controlled by means of a saturating servomechanism actuating a cadmium containing regulating rod. The simulation was set up on a 100/1 time scale using GAP/R high-speed analog computing equipment, and solutions were presented repetitively. Represented in the setup were six delayed neutron groups, variations in regulating rod effectiveness with displacement and reactor cycle time, four quadrant servomotor torque-speed characteristics, control rod position limiting, and a temperature coefficient of reactivity. The results presented include the response of the system to: reactivity disturbances, changes in desired power set point, increase of power on a constant period, and transition from manual to automatic control during startup."
"A control system has been developed for the NRU reactor which performs automatic start-up as well as steady power control. This paper describes the system characteristics and the circuits which determine them during start-up and under steady power control."
"When reactor power is controlled only by neutron teakage flux, a difficulty arises because the factor relating neutron flux level with reactor power is a function of the flux distribution in the reactor. Due to variation in control rod positions, the flux distribution will vary. This paper presents a method for handling the problem by measuring the reactor thermal power and using this to adjust the power level demand circuits. A stability analysis is also given."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The Administrative Committee of the PGNS met on October 31, 1957, in the offices of the Associated Universities, Room 1750, Coliseum Tower. The Chairman, J.N. Grace, presided. Considerable discussion took place on methods of assuring high quality technical papers for the various PGNS activities. H.D. LeVine was appointed chairman of an ad hoc planning committee to 1) explore means of solving the long-term problem of assuring the quality of papers for both the meetings and TRANSACTIONS, and 2) explore themes and topics for the Fifth Annual Meeting to ensure a cohesive, wellintegrated program. G.A. Morton presented a report on plans for the Scintillation Counter Symposium of which the IRE is a joint sponsor. The question of publication of Symposium papers in the TRANSACTIONS is to be discussed after the Symposium has been held and the funds available to assist publication are known."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Cerenkov counters as particle detectors in high energy physics experiments are discussed with emphasis on the practical design of velocity-sensitive devices. The performance and problems associated with three types of detectors are considered: simple velocity threshold counters and wide-band and narrow-band velocity selectors. The limitation in resolution of practical velocity-sensitive counters in high energy experiments arises mainly from the characteristics of the beams which must pass through their radiators. These limitations include divergences in the direction of the beam particles, multiple coulomb scattering, and changes in velocity of particles as they pass through the Cerenkov radiator. Methods of coupling radiators to multiplier phototubes include direct optical contact, specular reflection, and diffuse reflection. Magnesium oxide is an excellent diffuse reflector and methods of its application are given. Statistical fluctuations in the small numbers of photoelectrons produced from Cerenkov radiators limit the accuracy with which the times of passage of individual particles are determined."
"An investigation of the relative scintillation efficiencies of the various noble gas mixtures has been made in an attempt to find a combination that would yield either more light than any of the pure gases or allow a more economical use of the heavier gases without substantial loss of light. Data on the efficiency of all binary mixtures of Xe, Kr, A, Ne, and He are presented. They show a characteristic large drop in the light for mixtures containing a small proportion of the heavier gas in a major fraction of the lighter. However, a 10 per cent Xe-90 per cent He mixture has a relatively large output and could be useful in constructing a high-efficiency neutron counter using the He3(n, p)H3 reaction. Data are also presented on the relative conversion efficiencies of several commonly used organic waveshifters. Of those tested, the best are diphenyl stilbene, tetraphenylbutadiene, and quaterphenyl having relative efficiencies of 1.0, 0.7, and 0.4, respectively. A survey investigation was also made of the relative efficiencies of solid and liquid xenon, krypton, and argon for ordinary glass and for quartzfaced photomultipliers. Although these data are not as accurate or reproducible as the corresponding work on gases, they indicate several of the combinations may approach NaI(T1) in light output."
"The objective of this work is to study the possibilities of incorporating into plastic scintillators substantial quantities of heavy element compounds without the introduction of appreciable color or haze. Factors governing the quenching of the light output are considered, and a practical balance is struck between lowered pulse height and the quantity of heavy element introduced. The various components required in a heavy-element-loaded plastic scintillator are outlined, with a discussion of the effects of variations in their chemical character and proportion. Specific approaches to the problem are outlined as follows: 1) the inclusion in the plastic scintillator of organo-metallic compounds, 2) inclusion of essentially non-ionic metal salts, 3) inclusion of chelated metal compounds, 4) use of a base plastic material in which a variety of metal compounds are more soluble than in the standard vinyl-aromatic type of base plastic, and 5) inclusion of a metal compound that is also a monomer. Possible applications to detection of low energy radiation and of thermal neutrons are discussed."
"Work on pure NaI reported at the Fifth Scintillation Counter Symposium (1956) has been extended using crystals of higher purity at temperatures down to 4°K. Decay of the light pulse from unactivated NaI is not a simple exponential but exhibits a rising component superimposed on an exponential decay. In other measurements, the absolute conversion efficiency (emitted useful light divided by exciting particle energy) was found to be as high as 25 per cent for unactivated NaI at liquid nitrogen temperature (compared with 13 per cent for NaI(T1) at room temperature. Theoretical and practical implications of the results are discussed."
"The preparation of scintillating glasses is currently being studied with principal emphasis on the use of cerium as an activator. The most efficient material investigated to date is a cerium activated high silica glass prepared originally by the Corning Glass Company. The pulse height of this material has been found to be as high as 10 per cent that of NaI(Tl), but its efficiency is dependent upon the purity of the high silica glass from which it is prepared. Conventional meltable glasses activated with cerium have been prepared which have a pulse height of 7 per cent of NaI(Tl). The pulse height of these meltable glasses is dependent upon their composition. Alkaline earths have been found to be deleterious, whereas the presence of aluminum has been found to be beneficial. The most efficient composition to date has been found to be 1.ONa2O, 0.30Ce2O3, 3.0-4.0(B2O3 + SiO2), 1.0-1.3Al2O3. Methods of preparation of both meltable and high silica glass type glasses as well as their optical properties are described."
"When a scintillation counter is used as a spectrometer for energetic protons, corrections must be made for the fact that (p,n) and other nuclear reactions may occur in the scintillator, causing some of the protons to register substandard pulse heights. These corrections have been measured for thalliated sodium iodide, and for plastic scintillators at proton energies between 10 and 40 mev, by measuring the pulse-height spectrum produced by a proton beam of homogeneous energy striking the crystal. The homogeneous beam is obtained by collimating a linear accelerator beam to one-eighth inch diameter, then magnetically analyzing to get rid of the slit-scattered protons."
"In considering the design of a photomultiplier with good time resolution characteristics, it is convenient to divide the problem into two parts, one dealing with the photocathode-to-first dynode region, the other with the secondary emission multiplier structure. The two principal causes of poor time resolution in both of these parts are: 1) the different path lengths of electrons originating from separated points on a second, and 2) the effect of initial velocities of the emitted electrons on transit times. The electron optical approach to the alleviation of the transit time spread due to path differences is discussed for both the cathode region and the structure. The focusing spiral method of analyzing the performance of a structure is of considerable value. The effects of initial velocities can be reduced by ensuring that the electron velocities within the photomultiplier are very high. It is not practical to obtain these high velocities simply by applying a high over-all voltage to the tube because of the loss of secondary emission gain and because of internal and external insulation difficulties. However, the necessary high velocities can be obtained by the use of high voltage field electrodes between successive dynodes, so arranged that electrons are rapidly accelerated to a high velocity and then decelerated before they reach the next dynode. A photomultiplier is described whose design is based upon these two principles. A high voltage central electrode system between successive dynodes serves to give electrons the high velocity required to minimize transit time spread."
"In recent years a great deal of attention has been paid to the dangers of high X-ray dosage during fluoroscopic examination of a patient. A number of electronic devices have been put forth in an attempt to allow fluoroscopic image intensification and a consequent decrease in the required dosage. The purpose of this paper is to outline briefly the principles on which these devices work. The discussion begins with a general consideration of the requirements and limitations of fluorescent screen intensification. The devices which are then explained can be divided into four main categories: 1) solid-state intensifiers, 2) image-converter tube intensifiers, 3) television camera tubes directly sensitive to X radiation, 4) television camera systems with enhanced light sensitivity. Some general conclusions are drawn concerning the present state of the art in these devices."
"The change of gain with time of two types of dynodes used in photomultipliers has been studied at several current levels and under repeated fatigue cycles. The fatigue of the photomultiplier takes place predominantly in the last few dynodes; The magnitudes and time dependence of the fatigue vary with dynode current, temperature, construction, and past history."
"A number of recent developments have contributed to the design of multiplier phototubes having improved time discrimination, as well as improved pulse-height resolution. In the 6810-A, a modified version of the first commercial high-gain, high-speed tube, a curved faceplate (flat on the outside) is used to reduce transit-time variations in the region between the photocathode and the first dynode. Special geometrical construction is used to minimize transit-time spread in the 7046, a five-inch tube developed under an AEC contract. Curvature of the inner faceplate is also used to improve pulse-height resolution and time discrimination of developmental versions of the 6342 and the 6655. In a new developmental tube, RCA Dev. No. C-7251, cathode curvature is combined with a new electrode structure between the cathode and the multiplier structure to reduce transit-time spread to less than a few tenths of a millimicrosecond."
"A discussion on linear and box-type multiplier phototubes is presented. Various aspects of dynode geometry and front end design of the Du Mont linear type multiplier structure in regard to transit time and transit-time spread are discussed. Several methods of operation of the front end of a multiplier phototube are considered in order to determine the optimum conditions for collection efficiency and transit-time spread. The mechanical requirements of various linear multiplier phototube types are discussed briefly. The development of linear tube types has come about as a result of an increasing demand for fast tubes capable of delivering high peak pulse output currents."
"Recent developments have resulted in multiplier phototubes having wider spectral responses from the ultraviolet to the infrared, having higher absolute sensitivity, and having lower dark emission. The multialkali photocathode discovered by Sommer is now being used in the development type multiplier phototube, C7237. Despite the very high red sensitivity of this cathode, the dark emission is a factor 10 lower than that of antimonycesium cathodes used in typical scintillation counters. Output dark current is basically due to the photocathode dark emission, but this is sometimes increased by regenerative processes. In a special sixteen-stage developmental type with a sealed-in optical shield, the dark current was kept to a minimum for gains as high as 109 to 1010. Photocathodes of very high quantum efficiency have been achieved on the 7029 multiplier phototube type of means of an internally evaporated-front-surface photocathode of the antimony-cesium type. Absolute comparisons of special characteristics are presented for the photocathodes mentioned above, as well as for the ultraviolet-sensitive 6903 and for the 7102 multiplier phototube which has red and infrared sensitivity."
"A photomultiplier structure capable of high current output and relatively fast rise time has been developed and several prototypes have been built. The design incorporates eight separate photocathode elements spaced around the cylindrical structure. A five or six-stage multiplier focuses the electrons onto a central coaxial collector-output structure matched directly to a coaxial line. Each stage of the multiplier consists of a ring of eight dynodes, giving effectively eight parallel current channels from photocathode to collector. The structure is approximately two and one-half inches in diameter by four and one-half inches long. Saturated pulse output currents of nine amperes have been obtained in initial tests. Linearity within approximately 10 per cent has been obtained with output currents of four amperes. Calculations and measurements indicate a transit time of approximately 5 millimicroseconds with a spread of the order of 1 mμsec. Current gains of 4000 at 2500 volts over all hate been obtained with a five-stage multiplier with antimony-cesium dynodes. The geometry of this structure and the operating characteristics are discussed. A psuedo-logarithmic response capability, inherent in this design of tube, is expected to be useful for covering an extended dynamic input range."
"The characteristic shapes of the response functions of a sodium iodide scintillation spectrometer determine the potential of the spectrometer for X or gamma-ray spectroscopy. The present report reviews the evaluation of these functions for monoenergetic X rays and the limitations placed by this evaluation on the quality of the results for various applications. Emphasis is given to theoretical and experimental methods at X-ray energies between 1 and 100 mev. The theoretical methods available up to 4.5 mev are either of the analytical or Monte Carlo types. Above 4.5 mev, no satisfactory theoretical approaches have been developed. Experimental methods using gamma-ray sources, monoenergetic electron data to synthesize X-ray responses, and synchrotron bremsstrahlung are reviewed in detail."
"The various considerations necessary for conversion of the pulse height spectrum from NaI(Tl) spectrometers to photon intensity distributions are discussed. Some of these are: 1) resolution and efficiency of the crystal; 2) summing of cascade gamma rays; 3) source geometry and self-absorption; and 4) handling of positron emitters. A straightforward empirical method for subtracting the Compton distributions associated with the various gamma rays in a complex spectrum is indicated and the logical extension to continuous photon distributions is discussed."
"The Hanford system for measurement of neutron time of flight differs from conventional techniques only in the use of a vernier chronotron for time interval measurements. The chronotron consists of two circulating transmission lines with a single fast coincidence circuit between them. The line lengths are adjusted to give slightly different circulation periods. By counting the number of circulations necessary to bring two noncoincident pulses into coincidence, a number is obtained which is a measure of the time interval in terms of the difference in circulation periods. This number is used as the channel address for storage in a Radiation Counter Laboratories 256 channel analyzer. Discussion of the vernier chronotron includes: 1) The factors determining channel width, stability and uniformity, 2) use of the RCA 6810 for starting circulation directly, 3) performance of the system as determined with prompt gamma ray cascades, and 4) performance of the instrument in conjunction with the other components of the time of flight system."
"A scintillation counter employing a 70-lb NaI(Tl) crystal and a Swiss (AfiF) multiplier phototube has been tested with electrons of energy up to 600 mev. The plot of pulse height vs energy of incident electrons is found to be linear up to the highest energy tested (600 mev). Energy resolution of 16 per cent has been obtained at 350 mev. The crystal is 9 1/2 inches both in diameter and length. The incident radiation, which can be either electrons or gamma rays, induces a cascade electromagnetic shower within the mass of the crystal giving rise to light which enters the photomultiplier tube. Graphs showing linearity in energy response are presented as well as plots of line shape at constant energy of the incident particle. The procedure for obtaining line breadth semitheoretically is described, and the breadth so derived compared with the value obtained in actual practice. Details of the airtight crystal enclosure and of the crystal-photomultiplier optical coupling system are shown."
"This paper describes the construction of a matrix expressing the response of a large sodium iodide crystal to axially incident 0.01 to 8-mev gamma rays. Interpolation from measured and calculated pulse-height distributions due to monoergic sources yielded a series of distributions at source-energy intervals uniform in the square root of energy. Each distribution was normalized to the total detection efficiency of the crystal and divided into \"bins\" whose centers were spaced at the above source-energy intervals. Integrated values of the contents of all such bins were written as a triangular matrix. Inversion of this matrix was performed on an automatic computer. Reduction of an experimental pulse-height distribution to a spectrum is effected by first expressing the distribution as a series of bin contents as above, then multiplying this series by the inverse response matrix, and finally dividing by bin widths to give photons per mev."
"A review is given of experiments carried out in an investigation of the scintillation response of Li6I(Eu) to fast neutrons. A considerable improvement in fast-neutron resolution is realized by operation of the crystal at low temperatures. Pulse-height spectra have been recorded for neutrons from various sources providing both line spectra and continuous spectra. These experiments indicate possible applications of Li6I(EU) as a fast-neutron detector and spectrometer."
"The scintillation counter has played a key role in many of the recent experiments pertaining to the conservation of parity and other symmetry principles in weak interactions. Although in many instances the development of the techniques of scintillation counting, per se, has been limited, the applications to which these techniques have been put are sufficiently novel to warrant a general review of these applications to the measurement of certain dynamical quantities in weak interactions. These quantities include the momentum and angular distribution of emission with respect to nuclear polarization direction of beta particles from polarized nuclei, the longitudinal polarization of these beta particles, the circular polarization and angular distribution of gamma rays following the beta decay process, and any correlations of these quantities with one another or with the nuclear recoil. Particular emphasis is placed on the scintillation spectroscopy of beta particles performed within the vacuum space of a cryostat where the temperature of the detector is of the order of 1°K and that of the source is below 0.01°K and where high magnetic fields are present."
"The liquid scintillator, in just a few years of development, has shown itself to be an extremely versatile chemical system for radiation detection. Its evolution has been characterized by penetration into almost every phase of experimental science. A survey of the most notable applications of liquid scintillation counting is presented."
"Gamma sensitive scintillators may be applied to low power training reactors and reactor critical experiments where the residual fission fragment gamma activity is kept low. Some results of applying gamma sensitive scintillators with linear and log-n-period circuits to reactor critical experiments are compared to results obtained with conventional neutron sensitive counters and ion chambers. Relative performances and reliability are discussed. One advantage found is a reduction in the time required to sense an unsafe condition. Power reactor problems of monitoring for excessive exhaust stack gas activity and for fission fragment leakage from defective fuel elements are also discussed."
"A beam of parallel particles of given velocity traversing a transparent radiator gives off Cerenkov radiation at a unique angle with respect to the beam direction independently of the point of traversal. Such light can be brought to a ring focus. A Cerenkov counter has been built using this principle. Velocity definition is obtained by using a ring diaphragm on the face of a photomultiplier. The greatest velocity definition is obtained for small angle Cerenkov light; we have chosen 10 degrees. To change the velocity selection without changing the optics the index of refraction of the radiator is varied. The index of refraction may be varied by changing the pressure of a gas near its critical point. The working fluid is Fluorochemical FC-75.1 The index of refraction of FC-75 can be varied continuously from n = 1.15 to n = 1.01 at a temperature of 250°C by changing the pressure. The counter has been tested using 1.8 bev/c π mesons from the Brookhaven Cosmotron; the counting rate vs pressure of the FC-75 has a full width corresponding to less than Δ ß = 0.01."
"Transistor circuits simplify the design of pulse amplifiers because of their essentially linear gain characteristics. The low heat dissipation of such circuits permits small packages. The variations in transistor gain and leakage can be minimized by converting the high single stage gain to stability through the use of emitter feedback. Linearity and response to fast-rise pulses is shown for specifiic scintillation amplifier circuits."
"The rate of decay of luminescence following excitation by a high energy particle is an important parameter both in application and interpretation of scintillation phenomena. Two of the present authors developed a more accurate method of measuring scintillation decay, using a pulsed X-ray tube. However, the intensity and time resolution of that apparatus was not adequate for the measurement of all interesting scintillators. A new apparatus has been constructed in which cathode rays are used to excite the scintillator. Cathode-ray pulses as short as 10-10 sec are generated by sweeping a cathode-ray beam across a narrow slit. The emergent electrons in the pulse are accelerated to ~80 key and pass through a thin window to strike the scintillator. The latter may be a crystal, plastic or liquid. The light from the scintillator is detected and amplified by a multiplier phototube, type 1P28. The currents from the anode and last dynode are fed through 120-ohm transmission lines to a traveling-wave oscilloscope. A value of 2.15 × 10-9 sec is obtained for the decay time of scintillations from a solution of 5 g/l of terphenyl in toluene, in agreement with previous measurements. The apparatus is currently being used to study the dependence of the decay time on solute concentration in liquid and plastic scintillators. The decay time is found to increase with decreasing concentration, as predicted by the current theories of energy transfer."
"A spectrometer has been developed for rapid quantitative determination of nitrogen content in bulk media using neutron capture gamma-ray analysis. Four NaI(Tl) scintillation detectors, each operated at counting rates of the order of 105, per second, are utilized to permit rapid measurement. Resolution loss due to pile-up is minimized by the use of a 40-millimicrosecond pulse width at the photomultiplier anode followed directly by a low level biased silicon diode preselector. Those portions of pulses exceeding the diode bias are stretched and the four stretcher outputs are fed to a common amplifier of the nonoverloading type which has been modified to improve stability. The preselector reduces by almost two orders of magnitude the effective pulse rate which must be handled by the amplifier. Since pulse-height stability requirements are stringent, temperature regulation of the scintillation detectors and preselector units is used. Detailed measurements indicate that the NaI crystal-plus-photomultiplier combination contributes more instability than all the other spectrometer components combined."
"The use of a multichannel detector in the focal plane of a magnetic spectrometer effectively decouples the wellknown reciprocal relation between spectrometer resolution and transmission applicable to single-channel detection The Stanford 36-inch magnetic spectrometer is used in electronscattering experiments in conjuction with the Mark III linear electron accelerator. In order to utilize the full momentum acceptance of the spectrometer (Δ/p/p ≃ 0.05), we have constructed a 10-channel prototype of a 50-channel scintillation-Cerenkov detection system which will possess a resolution (p/Δp ~ 1000) close to the maximum obtainable from the spectrometer. The momentum channels are defined by small scintillation counters which detect ionizing particles, consisting primarily of high-energy pions and electrons. Electrons are distinguished from mesons by Cerenkov counters which back up blocks of 10 scintillators. A coincidence is required (2τ ≃ 3 + 10-8 μsec) between a scintillation detector and the associated Cerenkov counter. A 256-channel computer-type ferrite core memory (Radiation Counter Laboratories Mark 20), divided into four manually or electronically-selected blocks of 64 channels, is used to store the information from the counter array. The use of this large memory allows storage of correlated information in matrix form from two arrays of counters."
"The problem of measuring gamma activity at the natural levels, particularly in people and foodstuffs, is an extremely important one because of the necessity of monitoring both fallout from nuclear weapons tests and the disposal of reactor wastes. This problem will also be encountered because of the necessity for minimizing radiation in clinical and industrial tracer applications. Two principal techniques have been developed for this purpose which are applicable to in vivo studies: the NaI crystal spectrometer in a special, low-activity shield, and the large 4π liquid scintillation counter. Both have sensitivities which permit the detection of gamma activity in the human body at levels a factor of 10 to 100 below the natural K-40 concentration. The choice between the two systems depends largely on the particular application, since they are comparable in terms of ultimate sensitivity and cost. The liquid scintillator is the method of choice used for routine studies involving large numbers of samples in which the identity of the activity is known. This is the case, for example, in studies of the gamma activity of people and foodstuffs due to fallout because of the large discrimination factors in biological systems against elements not closely resembling nutritional essentials. Natural K-40 and Cs-137 are normally the only gamma activities present, and the energy resolution of the liquid scintillator permits their simultaneous determination. Because of the constancy and predictability of the K-40 level, additional hard gamma activity (e.g."
"Studies of the differences in the decay time of organic phosphors have shown that, while most of the light is emitted with a short-period fluorescence decay, differences in specific ionization affect the long-term components. It is consequently possible to distinguish between gamma ray and neutron excitation of many phosphors (including scintillating liquids) by using multiplier photocells having relatively slow response characteristics. Photomultipliers with large-area photocathodes can therefore be used."
"The structures of both production and developmental type photomultiplier tubes made by EMI are described and their characteristics presented. A departure from previous EMI tubes which has taken place in the past two years has been the development of a small box and grid structure system and recently a focused dynode system. The dark current characteristics of the EMI tubes are discussed particularly from the point of view of low energy counting. In the limit, a single beta particle of low energy in a scintillating phosphor may cause the emission of only 1 or 2, or 3 photoelectrons, and these are difficult to distinguish from the thermionic electrons emitted from the cathode. The problem is, therefore, to design and use photomultipliers so that as few thermionic electrons as possible are emitted from the cathode, and to reduce the collection of unwanted electrons from other parts of the cathode-Dl space. The results of development along these lines are presented."
"The work at 20th Century has been directed primarily at production of replacement units for photomultiplier types presently being produced in the United Kingdom. The tube type selected for study has been the venetian-blind type. A simplified dynode structure made of a single sheet of metal has been developed. Experiments have been conducted on the light utilization by a transparent cathode and results are presented. The collection characteristics of dynodes also have been investigated and the results are presented. Some general principles in tube design are outlined."
"Some properties of different types of photomultipliers which are now in commercial use in France, such as background linearity at high currents, transit time fluctuations, and stability for a counting, are discussed. In addition, some properties of different types of scintillators in commercial use or under development are presented. These include amplitude, light spectrum and decay time temperature for various mineral or organic (solid and liquid) scintillators, and of several gaseous mixtures. The latter part of this paper describes briefly two new French applications of scintillation techniques: gamma spectrometer for aerial prospecting and the use of scintillation counters for measuring thermal neutron fluxes in reactors."
"After a brief outline of applications of scintillation counters to nuclear studies at ETH (Eidgenoessische Technische Hochschule), some topics in electronic circuit developments are selected for a more detailed discussion. 1) A linear overload-protected amplifier is described in which pulse shape parameters can be adjusted independently. 2) In the linear amplifier double rectangular pulse shaping is produced by a ferrite core delay line of novel design. Higher order phase corrections are obtained by a combination of inductive and capacitive couplings. 3) Fast timing signals are derived from slow scintillation pulses using a nonlinear amplifier circuit. Amplitude-dependent time jitter is reduced by a special design of interstage couplings. 4) Requirements to be met by pulse stretchers are listed, and a corresponding circuit diagram is presented. 5) Ultrasonic delay lines can be used for the storage of channel counts in a pulse spectrometer. A new type of magnetostrictive transducer has been developed in order to improve the reliability of such a memory. Increased signal amplitude is obtained along with a suppression of unwanted reflections. 6) Straightforward decimal coding, as used in ultrasonic storage and in electrostatic storage type pulse spectrometers, will be explained briefly. Automatic data recording from the CRT display of the ultrasonic memory spectrometer is demonstrated. The electrostatic memory spectrometer is presently operative with four decimals on each of 32 columns in the storage tube. 7) A possible way of using a pulse spectrometer for automatic computing in the analysis of complex scintillation spectra is suggested."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Job opportunities for engineering college graduates for 1958 is discussed. The survey includes information from a number of east coast electronic industries. In nearly every case, a reduction in the number of new employees is indicated. A lowering of the salary scale is not anticipated. Employers will emphasize quality. It is pointed out that the opportunities for employment may make a sudden reversal from the trend indicated due to a change in national defense planning. The data presented would support the view that the engineering college graduate for 1958 would not be sought after with the vigor of the past few years."
"This article concentrates on the problems throughout the educational system, but particularly in the fields of the sciences an dengineering, created by the loss of faculty members to industry and the difficulty of attracting qualified replacements, and discusses some ideas for correcting them. Included in a discussion of incentives and rewards of a teaching career is a table showing the years of education and experience required for comparable positions in industry and teaching, as well as average salaries for these positions in a medium-sized corporation. There is also a suggestion of how a change in the tax laws would benefit the fund-raising campaigns of schools and universities."
"The extreme shortage in recent years of engineers and scientists with advanced degrees has caused a severe depletion of younger university teachers in these fields. The simultaneous increase in the number of technical students in universities has put an added load on the remaining faculty. While the larger student population promises to provide warm bodies to fill technical positions, there is a great danger that the quality of the product will deteriorate."
"In response to the need of industry, several of the leading engineering colleges are granting a Professional Degree after two years of graduate work instead of the one year normally required for a Master's degree. The technical difficulty and complexity of industry's development programs tax unduly the training given for a Master's degree. More depth and breadth in such subjects as mathematics, advanced mechanics, thermodynamics, and electronics are required. Many capable men would be willing to devote two years to graduate work who are unwilling to spend the time necessary for a Ph. D. degree and hence content themselves with a Master's degree, thus handicapping themselves and industry."
"Outstanding national achievements to the development of which higher education has contributed substantially are cited, among them being 1) attainment of a high standard of living based on scientific and technological accomplishments, 2) a high degree of social mobility, and 3) a high degree of political stability. Difficulties confronting colleges and universities in meeting greatly increased demands are examined in the light of developments which have deprived them of the priority of support they once enjoyed. It is contended that higher education must be adequately supported at whatever cost if immediate and future demands are to be satisfied."
"The success of an industrial enterprise is largely determined by the quality of its technical and management personnel and its long-range research program. Industry depends upon education to supply creative people and new ideas. Education depends upon the community to which industry is perhaps the most important element, to voice its educational needs and to provide support. The personnel and equipment of industrial laboratories can be used both in the company and in the schools to stimulate teachers and students and to acquaint them with the content and requirements of modern industrial technology. Financial aid from industry can support new educational projects pending budgetary acceptance."
"During the next ten years, technical institute education in the United States should be expanded ten times while other forms of higher education are doubled. Only in this way will we be able to get efficient utilization of our scientists and engineers. The many developments in science and technology that will take place in the next decade will call for a greatly expanded technical manpower team, and the largest potential source of 1957. supply is the manpower pool composed of individuals with aptitudes that qualify them to become engineering technicians. We can produce twice as many engineering technicians as engineers for the invested educational dollar, for the engineering technician is graduated in two years while the engineer needs four years. Through better acceptance of the engineering technician by industry and the engineering profession, this much needed expansion is bound to be realized."
"The word \"technician\" embraces a broad spectrum of skilled workers. This paper is concerned with a few specialized groups who are defined in detail for further study. The examination includes their background and training, the organization for administration and supervision of their work, where they come from, and what their opportunities presently seem to be. The paper describes certain factors which determine how many technicians may be utilized effectively and the experienced trends of one organization. It concludes with a short discussion of the use of the title \"engineer\" and the problem of technician job stability."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The Editor must advise its readers that the Cedar Rapids Section of the IRE saw fit to help launch the PGE TRANSACTIONS. It did so by contributing enough of its hard earned cash to print letter press the entire printing of the first issue 2000 copies. By so doing, the Cedar Rapids Section has given PGE a considerable thrust in its \"take off.\" The \"overage\" of copies is being used for promotional purposes. Educators and industrial leaders alike are being sent sample copies of the PGE TRANSACTIONS free so that they may have a sample copy by which to judge its merits."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Changes have been occurring in the character of the present-day engineering product which require a review of the education for such engineering. A number of studies and reports have been made which seek to assess the needs and to suggest ideas for meeting the real challenge that exists. A separate study has been conducted by a group at the Case Institute of Technology along these same lines. This paper discusses the general educational problems and the broad philosophy which have been established to guide our subsequent curriculum development. The result is the need for a complete reappraisal of the existing curricula, with a degree of depth and integration among subject matter far beyond anything that has heretofore been attempted."
"The rapid advance of science and technology in today's world threatens to heighten, rather than minimize, the coming crisis in education. This paper advocates that the technological advances now possible must include advances also in the methods of education. Those now engaged in modern engineering and science must apply their ingenuity and resources to major creative efforts in the art of teaching. As with all other intellectual tasks in the coming period, the educational process must also be visualized as a \"man-machine\" process. The brain and senses of the human teacher must be extended by new engineering systems. This paper discusses specific examples, including feedback as a concept in automatic or semi-automatic lecturing, and stresses that by removing from the duties of the teacher those tasks which can be done as well or better by machines the teacher is elevated to those tasks requiring the superior intelligence and sensitivity of a trained human being."
"Teachers actively engaged in the classroom do not agree that today's science education is a failure. Schools are expressions of our culture, and their deficiencies have much deeper roots than most current analyses recognize. Fundamental rather than superficial remedies are indicated. Industry, in its approach to education must recognize the central importance of the teacher himself as an expert in the job to be done, and try to adjust its efforts to the special conditions of the classroom. Certain of the steps now being taken by industry in the field of secondary education are noted, and suggestions for their improvement are offered. It is necessary to put intellectual interests in a favorable competitive position with respect to more glamorous teen-age activities, and a possible action in this direction is suggested. Improvement of the economic and social status of the teaching profession would be the single most powerful development in bringing about better secondary education."
"As more and more material becomes relevant for laboratory work in the undergraduate curriculum in electrical engineering, it becomes increasingly important to find more efficient systems for setting up the equipment for laboratory experiments. Any such system should result in a neat, easily followed arrangement when assembled, should be flexible with respect to the experiments which can be performed, and should not result in stereotyped experiments. This paper describes a system which has been evolved utilizing chassis upon which are mounted an array of banana jacks on three-quarter inch centers. Many different circuits can be assembled easily and quickly by plugging in components which are mounted on double banana plugs. Different chassis are arranged for different circuits such as a dual triode, single pentode, and push-pull power amplifier."
"Teaching devices capable of directing the study of a student in accordance with his individual needs and capabilities offer exciting possibilities for the schools of the future. An \"automatic\" teaching device is one which incorporates both the presentation of information and the testing of the student in a controlled feedback relationship. This paper presents the case for \"automatic\" teaching devices along with some proposals for the construction of such machines."
"It is contended that engineering education in the United States is and has always been backward and of low quality compared to that in other countries, particularly Russia. Consequent low quality raises serious questions regarding ability to compete with the Communist world. Historical reasons for low quality are scrutinized as created by personality factors, financial matters, university policies, and federal policies. Significant differences between educators and practitioners in science and engineering are discussed. Specific practical proposals for action by federal and university agencies are given which can aid in reducing the serious shortage of welltrained engineers."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Revision of the electrical machinery courses requires the selection of those concepts fundamental to the field and a studied organization and presentation of these concepts in a form which correlates with other courses in the curriculum (particularly in the method of approach to analysis) and which simultaneously provides motivation in the form of interesting examples and illustrations drawn from current technological frontiers. The paper describes briefly one such attempt, in which the emphasis is placed on electromechanical signal transducers and their description in terms of two-port network functions, linear incremental models, and transfer functions."
"An experiment has been conducted in which the conventional introductory physics course for engineers has been reduced, and the capabilities of two groups of students-one group having had certain physics topics and the second group without these-have been compared. The comparison was made in mixed classes in engineering statics. Insofar as the data can be analyzed, they seem to show no essential differences in the performance of the two groups. Certainly, preliminary work in physics did not give that group of students any major advantage."
"The authors analyze the answers to 10 questions from 523 engineering students in three Michigan junior colleges, in an attempt to elicit the beginning student's view of engineering. The answers give information on the age of first interest in engineering, the age of decision on the field as a career, the influences that led to the choice of engineering, future aspirations, and six other related questions. The opening section briefly states the objectives of education in our society and indicates the contribution of the junior college. The conclusion suggests some specific assistance professional engineers can give to youth."
"To provide a method for graduate engineers to acquire advanced degrees, some industrial organizations have instituted a part-time employee program. The difficulties encountered by an industry, an employee and an educational institution which have been involved in such a program are indicated in this paper. Suggestions are made, which should improve the benefits derived from such a program. Since programs of this type will provide a better qualified technical force for industry and the nation, they deserve the attention of educators at this time. Greater cooperation between industry and educational institutions will provide a benefit to all."
"One of the most pressing problems facing the nation today is the need to improve and enlarge our higher education system. Many of our college facilities and faculties are already overburdened, yet the number of students seeking higher education will double in the next decade. This paper points out the steps that must be taken to increase the number of potential teachers and to induce sufficient numbers of them to choose teaching as a career. A greater effort must also be made to see that more of our most able high school graduates have an opportunity to pursue a higher education; at present, one third of the top quarter of our high school graduates do not go on to college. A recent study of Russian education made by the U. S. Office of Education is reported and the relative emphasis which Russia and America are placing on education is discussed. The cost of meeting the increased educational needs in America will be immense by current standards, but the cost of not meeting these needs will be far greater."
"The modification of the various engineering curricula to permit adequate preparation of students in a four-year program for careers in a rapidly changing technology of ever increasing complexity is one of the chief concerns of the engineering educator. It is generally felt that a more scientifically oriented curriculum than has been customary in the past will provide a more efficient and more effective undergraduate program. The actual realization of increased efficiency and effectiveness requires a great deal of careful thought and some bold experimentation with curricula. Some considerations in this connection are set forth. In particular, it is held that unification of subject matter, whenever possible, is of primary importance in realizing greater efficiency and effectiveness, and means whereby the scientific bases for engineering may be employed to achieve unity are suggested. In this connection certain tasks that belong uniquely to the teacher are pointed out.."
"Can ability and exceptional experience be accepted as substitutes for formal education in engineering? This article tells how one company developed a program of qualifications and examinations through which its more talented technicians can achieve full engineer status. The program gives the aspiring technician a continuing incentive for work towards an advanced status that is accepted without reservation by every degree engineer in the company."
"Some of the weaknesses of the old method of handling the language requirements for Ph.D. candidates are pointed out. It is maintained that a considerable waste of time was involved and that the requirement was not satisfactory to all concerned. The author supports the proposal that a good training in one language is preferable."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The mean reading rate of the average educated adult is about 250 words per minute. Perhaps the top 5 per cent read twice this fast. Slow readers read no better than fast ones. Slow reading is a bad habit, and a needless waste of time. Most educated adults, in a few weeks' time, could achieve rates of four to five hundred words per minute, in their ordinary reading, and do so without loss in comprehension. The reading rate of a given person varies, of course, with a number of conditions; but the person who reads a given selection rapidly tends to read other selections at a proportional rate. Readers tend to maintain their relative ranks as material and purpose vary."
"The need for a knowledge of foreign languages by the leaders in scientific research is discussed. It is argued that if one language is started in school and a second one in college, fluency in both may be achieved before entering graduate school. This avoids the waste of valuable time by Ph.D. candidates who are far beyond the age when languages are easily learned. Engineering colleges are urged to adjust their requirements and curricula to implement this proposal."
"The question of formulating an educational policy has secured limited attention since 1951. The acute engineering shortage of 1955-1956 gave industry food for thought. Disclosures of the progress made by the U.S.S.R. alarmed our military and congressional personnel. The launching of Sputnik I awakened large segments of the public to the inadequacies of the national treatment of educational matters. There is need to look ahead. Responsible scientists have foreseen tripling of world population by next midcentury; food production, resource utilization, and energy production must be brought to levels to permit life at desired standards. The most critical element necessary for all this is adequate technical manpower. There is a need for about three times the number available at present rates of growth. The solutions require such magnitude of effort and support that joint endeavors by government, industry, and educators must be found."
"Improving the abilities of our future engineers seems to call for enhanced study of the natural sciences as against continued study of applications of current hardware; however, we find that today's engineering college was built and designed along hardware lines. A new form of engineering college organization is proposed in which the departmental and divisional responsibilities cover areas of scientific subject matter rather than areas leading to specific degrees. Realignment of conventional departmental areas will lead to an engineering program which will carry some of the aspects of liberal arts but with technical course subject matter. It should provide the freedom of choice and the mathematical depth required for the engineer of tomorrow."
"Virtually all of us believe in the great importance of physics in engineering curricula and have fought for years to develop a strong and modern physical basis for instruction in engineering. From our observations, the basic question is no longer seriously disputed; the idea is generally accepted and only the details of local implementation seem to remain. If this is so, why does discussion continue on what should be a dead issue? Why do we continue to beat an academic \"dead horse?\" In searching for the answer, we have come to some disturbing conclusions which, theoretically, place the entire issue in a different perspective, establishing new directions in electrical engineering education."
"A definition of basic philosophy for our future education is given, and the implications with regard to our future teaching system are analyzed. Then the European primary and secondary education, and automatic selection in the precollege year are discussed. The teaching system in a European engineering school is explained, and a discussion of the main results of the 1957 International Conference on Engineering Education and Training, in Paris, is included. Finally, it is explained why, in many fields of science and engineering, the European university education appears superior to ours."
"Rapid changes in the professional activities of engineers are taking place as a result of revolutionary developments in sciences and industry. Inevitably, these changes must be reflected in all aspects of the training and education of engineers. Engineering curricula and other phases of college programs are being modified in several respects to provide the present-day graduate with the knowledge and the understanding of fundamentals that he requires. In recognition of the fact that the education of an engineer is far from complete when he graduates, industry is assuming increasing responsibility for parts of the educational program. Further cooperation between the colleges and industry is natural and desirable."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The index contains an entry for all items that appeared during the year."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"A comprehensive listing of the authors, articles and departments included in 1958."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"From these calculations, a load voltage with an error of approximately 0.12% can be maintained at the expense of increasing the circulating current from 10.2% to 10.62%."
"This paper deals with characteristics of utility loads in Canada, and the characteristics required in generators to match them; with some examples of means that have been employed for this purpose."
"The effect of hydrostatic pressure on the permittivity of barium titanate ceramics was investigated experimentally up to a pressure of 1,125 kg/cm2 (kilograms per square centimeter) and at temperatures of 0, 11, and 25 C (degrees centigrade) respectively. The pressure system used consisted of a stainless steel chamber in which the specimen was placed under oil, a hydraulic jack, and a Baldwin pressure cell with accompanying strain indicator. No marked changes of permittivity with hydrostatic pressure were observed. The variation of permittivity e with pressure p is linear, or almost linear. The pressure coefficient of permittivity (∂e/∂p)t of the e versus p curves was small: 0.01 to 0.16 cm2/kg (square centimeters per kilogram). The curves with the greatest slope are those which refer to data taken at 0 C; those for 12 C and 25 C have a lower and approximately the same slope for any given specimen. Additions of calcium titanate and lead titanate, respectively, in small percentages reduced the pressure coefficient to zero. It was observed during the course of this investigation that if the hydrostatic pressure on a ceramic disk is suddenly released, the capacitance of the disk rises rapidly to a maximum and, thereafter, slowly declines to its normal value. The corresponding rise in permittivity may be as much as 20%. Oscillograms were taken and an empirical equation fitted to the experimental data."
"Until recently, the definitions of the various insulation temperature classes in both the United States national and the corresponding international temperature standards were based upon chemical composition as largely determined by the words \"organic\" and \"inorganic.\" With the advent of many new synthetic materials having thermal stabilities extending over a wide temperature range a new approach to insulation classification by \"accepted test and experience\" has been developed both in the United States and internationally. This has resulted in the revision in 1955 by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) of IEC Publication 34 and issuance of the revised standard as IEC Publication 85 in 1957. It also resulted in a similar revision of AIEE No. 1 in 1956 and the issuance of the revised AIEE No. 1 and supplements 1D and 1E in June 1957. The evolution of this new approach to insulation temperature classification is reviewed with emphasis on its international aspects."
"1. The curves apply to any type of modern lightning arrester. Only the sparkover voltage has to be known; this should be obtained from the manufacturer. 2. When the arrester is between the equipment and the surge, the maximum voltage at the equipment approaches 200% of the arrester sparkover voltage. For short distances where the voltage at the equipment is less than two, Figs. 3 and 5 can be employed to determine the voltage at the equipment. 3. When the equipment to be protected is between two arresters, and if the surge is applied externally, the maximum voltage at the equipment approaches 150% of the arrester sparkover voltage. For short distances where the voltage at the equipment is less than 150%, Fig. 11 can be employed to determine the voltage at the mid-point 4. Figs. 3 through 5 were constructed on the basis of 1,000-kv/μsec surge on the OH line. However, since simple inverse proportionality exists between permissible feeder length and slope of surge front, any slope can be considered. If 100 feet is the answer from graphs (1,000-kv/μsec wave), then 200 feet is the answer for a 500-kv/μsec wave. 5. If system parameters are unknown, Figs. 3 and 5 should be used directly with no concern for all the variables involved."
"The helically corrugated, impervious, steel sheath is formed around the cable core, welded and corrugated in a continuous operation. This manufacturing method eliminates the thermal problems of the extrusion process, the length restrictions of the sinking or draw-down system, and also increases the pliability and the radial strength of the sheath. The sheath is an impervious barrier to gases and fluids which also gives mechanical protection to the cable core. Corrugation designs are based upon an engineering balance of weight, thickness of metal, pliability, compression strength, and ability to withstand internal and external pressures. The method of corrugating is flexible, and special designs can be made for specified service conditions. Even with thinner sheaths than commonly used for other types of impervious sheaths such as lead and aluminum, the corrugated steel sheath has improved radial strength and resistance to \"sheath metal fatigue.\" Conduits, ducts, and similar accessories are not necessary to protect the cable. Service records and laboratory tests substantiate the fact that the corrugations do not damage cable cores either during the manufacturing process, installation, or service. Cables protected with the corrugated steel sheath have bending characteristics which permit them to be shipped on normal diameter reels and to meet the normal installation requirements of minimum radii and number of bends. The sheath can be bent much sharper without damage to itself than recommended by industry standards for various insulations and cores. Protective systems for the sheath have been developed for chemical and corrosive environments."
"This discussion is not meant to decrease the value of the corrugated steel sheath which is in its design and manufacturing means a beautiful sample of excellent cable engineering. But this discussion is meant to give a fair opportunity for making a comparison with aluminum sheathing in its latest stage of development, this kind of sheathing being the hope of so many cable producers who have invested much in it. It tries to show that the very thin walled aluminum sheathing in particular has a great number of advantages among which we may once again emphasize, is the unique combination of exceedingly low weight and small over-all diameter which gives to it a real economical superiority. The discusser wishes to express his gratitude to the technical management of the Osnabrucker Kupfer-und Drahtwerk, Osnabruck, Germany, for kind permission to publish these data and Fig. 23."
"Trees, or fine, branching, microscopic channels extending partly or even wholly through a wall of insulation, represent a characteristic form of latent damage. This phase of dielectric breakdown has been studied in polyethylene. The phenomenon is probably similar in other dielectrics, such as rubber, where it cannot be so readily seen. A method of observing the progressive stages of treeing and final punchout under the microscope is described. The similarity between the appearance in the final stage of needle breakdowns after preliminary treeing and that of the breakdown paths from ordinary tests with alternating, direct, or impulse voltage supports the view that in most breakdowns the eventual failure is preceded by treeing. It is probable that the time interval between the start of a tree and the final breakdown can vary from months to microseconds. At low over-all stress trees may start at points of high local overstress but eventually stop growing. This permits the growth of the other trees before breakdown, so that the presence of many trees in different stages of growth is most likely in insulation after prolonged life tests. At very high stress the first channel may traverse the wall before others form and the whole process from tree start to final punchout may require times only of the order of microseconds. Regardless of the time scale, the phenomenon seems to be basically similar, in that the tree comes before the punchout."
"Gas-insulated transformers are now available to the industry. Since their insulation characteristics differ from the conventional oil units, the opportunity is presented to revise the concepts which were necessary in establishing the original BILs. It appears that when these units are protected with modern lightning arresters, their basic insulation levels can safely be reduced one step below the normal BIL established for liquid-insulated units. At the same time, maintaining full, standardized, low-frequency high-potential tests are maintained, with considerable margins of safety under both the lightning and switching surge conditions. It is suggested that the values shown in Table I be used as a preliminary basis for establishing standards for this new product."
"An unusual number of flashovers due to lightning have occurred on the 138-kv lines of Commonwealth Edison Company on a relatively new type of 138-kv double-circuit tower designed for only one overhead ground wire. Calculations based on the most recent AIEE Committee Report1 for estimating lightning performance indicate that these towers should have tripout rates very much similar to the type of double-circuit towers that are designed for two overhead ground wires. This paper goes a step beyond the AIEE Committee Report in that it considers the voltage surge induced on the conductors at the instant of field collapse through cloud discharge. This is done on a comparative basis for the new and old towers, as well as for modifications of the new towers. In addition, all towers are compared on a direct-stroke basis, in line with the AIEE Committee Report. A curve is presented which indicates a region where a second ground wire can be added to the new towers so that the resulting induced surge voltage and direct-stroke voltage compare favorably with previous designs. Actual modifications made in tower designs are discussed. These consist of: 1. changing the tower head to provide for two ground wires in a horizontal plane, and 2. adding a second ground wire at the height of the top phase conductor through the center of the tower."
"The trend toward increased electrification inside the modern power plant is evidenced by the Avon supercritical-pressure unit. The application of electrical controls to economically and reliably accomplish equipment protection and interlocking functions directly, or in combination with hydraulic and pneumatic control devices, has been demonstrated on commercial subcritical pressure units. They will continue to do so on the supercritical-pressure units. 1. Basically, the over-all trip protection for the supercritical-pressure turbine and steam generator is not radically different from that for large subcritical units, except for several important additions. 2. Automatic transfer of selected auxiliary motors to the start-up source becomes more important. 3. The monotube once-through steam generator requires a large number of hydraulic and remotely operated electrical controls. 4. Automatic starting of boiler feed pump prime movers and other auxiliaries may increase the over-all reliability of the main unit while adding little complexity to the control system which is designed for complete remote operation. 5. The complexity and number of electrica controls required on main control room panels for a supercritical unit far exceeds those required for a large conventional highpressure high-temperature unit."
"Representative insulations are thermally aged in pure oxygen and also in a moderately good vacuum. The resulting aging rates are compared with similar specimens aged in air and in nitrogen. A 50% dielectric criterion is used in evaluating deterioration rates. The evaporation component of aging is shown to be minor as compared with the oxidation component, for the materials tested, except for siliconeimpregnated materials."
"The need for increased ratings of magnetic air breakers has required critical studies of and improvements in the various factors involved in the interrupting process in these devices. One important factor, the magnetic field, has been extensively explored by means of probe coils connected to integrating circuits in such a manner that instantaneous values of useful flux, leakage flux, and flux densities in the air gap could be directly recorded and observed on magnetic oscillograms or cathode-ray screens. By these means the effects on field magnitude and distribution in improved field structures may be readily determined. The large leakage, usually more than 50% of the total flux, indicated that a substantial improvement in the useful field strength could be effected by decreasing the leakage. It was found that most of the leakage could be suppressed by the addition of low-resistance conducting bands completely surrounding each of the two magnet poles. For a particular field structure, an increase of almost 75% in the useful field density resulted from the application of leakage suppressor bands. Together with the proper design of arc chutes that take advantage of this increase in magnetic field, the use of such suppressor bands can substantially increase magnetic air breaker ratings."
"A sample holder is described in which thin-sheet-insulation materials may be placed for determining the dielectric properties from room temperature to 600 C (degrees centigrade). The type of electrode system is given along with the reasons for changing the method of measurement. The accuracy of the system is given along with the dielectric properties of two high temperature insulation materials."
"A transistorized-bushing potential device has been developed which provides an economical means of obtaining instrument and protective-relay voltages from power transmission systems. The device described in this paper includes a power supply, input circuits, and four transistor amplifiers. In the application described, the input signals which are to be amplified are obtained from taps on the condenser bushings of a 46-kv power circuit breaker. The device output voltages are proportional to the system line and zero-sequence voltages and are used to energize the directional element potential coils of induction-type overcurrent relays. Power for the amplifiers is obtained from a remote operating transformer and from a current transformer in the power circuit breaker. The paper describes the circuitry used and shows test results."
"The equivalent circuits presented here differ from those previously presented in two principal respects: 1. By a different choice of coefficient in the defining equations for id and iq, the equivalent circuits have been made reciprocal inherently, so that a special choice of base or turns ratio is not required to accomplish this desirable result. 2. The circuits have been so developed that they may be easily established either in a per-unit system, as has been the practice heretofore, or in a physical system, as may be more convenient. These two features should make circuits of this type easier to use and more convenient for practical calculation. The programming of the solution of the corresponding equations on a digital computer should make possible the routine use of these methods for computation of the starting performance of synchronous motors in design work. Since many variations can be tried easily and rapidly, it would now be possible to achieve optimum design proportions for specified needs. The further development of these circuits and their specific application to the calculation of starting performance of synchronous motors is treated in a paper by Giaever.14 It has been shown that the turns ratios used to modify the field and damper circuits are arbitrary, but that there is a definite range of ratios which will ensure that each branch of an equivalent circuit used to represent the relations between any two windings will be positive."
"Paralleled turbines should be loaded at selected valve points to maximize the power generation per pound of steam in preference to equal incremental steam rate loading using smooth average curves. The fact that turbines should spend a major portion of their useful working life on valve points instead of in between them, poses a logical question for the turbine and equipment manufacturers. Can valves, valve gear, governors and automatic dispatching equipment be adapted or redesigned to better fit and achieve this more precise and efficient valve point loading system for paralleled turbines?"
"The following is a summary of the main problems to which the methods discussed have been applied and of points of special interest in connection with these problems: 1. Determination of the magnitude of required reserve in the planning of system additions to meet future load requirements. The two main procedures are the use of probability methods for the determination of forced outages and the use of the constantrisk principle in scheduling overhauling to give the minimum required reserve for a desired degree of reliability. Factors considered include the following: monthly peaking factor, and help from emergency loading of equipment, from interconnections, and from dropping of interruptible load. 2. Evaluation of the savings in owned capability derived from an interconnection and determination of the required capability of the interconnection. These studies presuppose reciprocity over the interconnections on an equal basis. The saving in owned capacity by a given utility is greater than the power interchange by an amount equal to the incremental reserve which would be required if the power were obtained from additions to owned generating equipment. 3. Study of the effect of size of units upon the required reserve in the planning of system additions. The first new unit of a much larger size than existing ones adds to the usable capacity to supply load a much smaller fraction of its capability than that obtained if the added unit is equal in size to the largest existing one."
"This paper outlines the method of determining the economic choice which is believed to be universally applicable, mathematically rigorous, and quantitatively correct to the extent permitted by the accuracy with which component items of cost can be forecast. It introduces no drastic innovations, and may be described simply as a better organization of well-established principles. However, it does demonstrate that a number of generally accepted conclusions and procedures are unsound. It points out the advantages of distinguishing between selecting the economic choice and capital budgeting; it discusses difficulties that arise when analysts attempt to solve problems in the first category by applying techniques appropriate to the latter. The paper demonstrates that the economic choice is the alternative having minimum present worth of revenue requirements; i.e., the revenues needed to earn a rate of return acceptable to investors after paying all expenses. It describes the solution to problems in engineering economy in two steps: 1. Determining which alternative is most economic, and by how much. 2. Selecting the most desirable plan, in the light of step 1, plus other factors not reducible to dollars. It is shown that this approach is equally appropriate for regulated utilities and nonregulated industry. The paper also discusses practical applications of this technique to long-range estimates as they are encountered in system planning, as well as means of anticipating the effect of future changes in price levels."
"Reviewing at this point what has been done, we see that annual revenue requirements were established for a given plant. An expense was deferred in the third year of operation, and paid in the sixth year. This deferred expense resulted in an excess in earnings over the base requirements, which was used in two ways: 1. to decrease the amount of external financing from the sale of stocks and bonds equally, in which case the average rate of return on the deferred expense was (R-tib); 2. to decrease the amount of external financing from the sale of stocks only, in which case the average rate of return on the deferred expense was R or our average cost of money. Why the discrepancy in our average rate of return? In case 1, referring to Table X, we see that our debt ratio has not remained constant at 50% but has decreased to 48.5% ($776,000 bonds)/(1,600,000 total capital). This decrease in debt ratio resulted from a portion of surplus being used to decrease the need for external financing through bonds and this is the fallacy. From gross income, we are obligated to pay the interest on our bonds, and any excess or deficiency in earnings accrues to the stockholders. The portion of these earnings not paid out as dividends remains in the company as earned surplus and as the property of the stockholders. Being a part of equity, this surplus must earn 9% just as the common stock must earn 9%."
"An internal oxidation mechanism designed to eliminate the formation of conducting carbon paths in organic insulation exposed to electric arcs has been described. Mass spectrometer data on analysis of gases formed during electrical arcing provide evidence for this explanation. Data have been presented for several additives showing the degree of effectiveness in preventing creep tracking. For optimum effectiveness, it has been found that the additive should contain sufficient water of hydration as well as catalyst to prevent the formation of free carbon. Hydrated alumina in specific quantities has been found effective under all test conditions."
"The following closure was received too late to be included with the paper of \"Corrugated metallic cable sheath\" [Paper 58-75]."
"AIEE Special Publication S-43 \"Bibliography on Power Capacitors 1925-1950\" was issued in January 1952 and consisted of a comprehensive bibliography of the literature dealing with power capacitors over the period indicated. This issue contained a total of 918 items from some 180 periodicals published in the United States and abroad. The original Publication S-43 has been supplemented by the following AIEE Transactions papers: \"Bibliography on Power Capacitors - 1950-1952,\" December 1953, part III, pp. 1336-39, and \"Bibliography on Power Capacitors - 1952-54,\" April 1956, part III, pp. 26-28. The present work extends the bibliography over the years 1954-1956, and makes reference to 127 articles. The material is classified under the same headings previously used. Under each heading, the titles are arranged in chronological order; an alphabetical Index of Authors and List of Periodicals are also included. It is the intention of the Committee to keep the Bibliography up to date by issuing reports at regular intervals."
"The high efficiency of supercritical pressure turbine generators of this size is a compelling reason to attain maximum availability factor, and this dictates a high degree of reliability of the electrical features. On the other hand, cost must be held to a minimum. It is believed that the optimum balance between these two basic requirements has been achieved by stressing simplicity. The unit system is used both for the main and for the auxiliary equipment. The auxiliaries are supplied by a simple radial system which is arranged to eliminate costly ties and promote proper operation. Double cooling of the main transformers provides emergency capacity at minimum cost. The use of welded aluminum supporting structures in the 132-kv substation reduces the cost of maintenance. The relay system is designed to assure system stability. Railroad rights of way and railroad structures are used extensively for transmission lines."
"This paper presents the author's opinions as to the kind of standards necessary to implement the progressive policies set forth in the latest revision of AIEE No. 1, and as to the appropriate organizations to sponsor these standards. In the interest of simplicity the problem has been discussed as if the separate organizations had completely separate membership. Actually there is a large overlap of membership on the technical committees of these organizations. In addition to this personal co-ordination it is not only appropriate but desirable for the other organizations to make formal or informal recommendations to the organization with primary responsibility. Condensed, these opinions are as follows: 1. There should be a standard test procedure for each major type of insulating material, and for the insulation system used in each type of equipment, which should state how tests are to be made and how to arrive at a figure of merit. A professional organization, normally the AIEE, is appropriate for the development of these standards. 2. The product standards, both for materials and equipment, should be amended to describe the insulation classes in terms of the figure of merit, in addition to the present verbal description and, as far as practical, these two descriptions should result in equal thermal endurance. The organization now sponsoring the product standard is the appropriate organization to develop these amendments."
"Examples are presented in which elongation exhibits an adverse affect on the shelf aging, thermal aging, and varnish-shock resistance of enameled wire. Methods for determining heat-shock and varnish-shock on enameled rectangular wire are presented. A consideration of the factor of elongation is important in the development of rectangular wire enamels, and it is suggested that elongation be considered as an addition to AIEE Publication no. 57.1"
"In a nonuniform field, the positive direct and 60-cycle breakdown voltages of sulfur hexafluoride (SF6) as a function of pressure pass through a pronounced maximum. In the region of this maximum, corona is present at a much lower voltage than the breakdown voltage, and the impulse ratio may be less than one. In fact, the positive impulse, i.e., 1½x40-μsec (microsecond), breakdown voltagemay be only one half of the positive direct or 60-cycle breakdown voltage. This breakdown characteristic is contrary to the more usual behavior of gases which are less electron-attaching. For example, nitrogen and hydrogen have impulse breakdown voltages which are greater than the direct or alternating breakdown voltage. In this investigation, a positive impulse voltage was superimposed on a positive direct voltage applied to a point electrode. In the presence of corona, a space charge was established which caused the breakdown voltage versus positive direct voltage bias characteristic of SF6 to have a slope opposite to that obtained for air. Below corona onset in SF6, the breakdown voltage does not vary with bias. At high pressures where corona onset and breakdown are nearly coincidental, the breakdown voltage of SF6 does not vary with bias. The experimental evidence indicates that the occurrence of the maximum in the breakdown voltage versus pressure characteristic of SF6 is caused by the ability of these electronattaching gases to form space charges which greatly enhance the direct or alternating breakdown voltage."
"De-energization of 1,300 feet of 345-kv bus with a disconnecting switch produced severe system overvoltage. Although the overvoltages were effectively limited by lightning arresters to a value below the equipment insulation strength, a severe operating duty was imposed upon the lightning arresters. Unlike the high-voltage circuits, which are adequately protected, low-voltage power and control circuits can be damaged by induced overvoltages. This is particularly true of the 115-volt station-service and carrier-communication circuits. A series resistor connected in series with each pole of the disconnecting switch effectively eliminated overvoltages on the 345-kv system, and reduced the transients on the lower voltage circuits to a safe value. A porcelain-enclosed resistor has been developed to reduce overvoltage on the high-voltage system during bus de-energization. The resistor is automatically inserted into the circuit when the switch is operated, but is bypassed when the switch is closed."
"Two companion papers1,2 discuss the engineering problems associated with distribution-system voltage control and describe a digital computer program for engineering investigations of alternative methods. The present paper 1. describes and evaluates the distribution-system voltage-control practices and method of primary-feeder analysis followed on the American Gas and Electric Company (AGE) System, 2. illustrates how the computer program was applied to a specific system problem, and 3. discusses possible modifications and extensions of the technique. It is concluded that the computer program may find application on the AGE System but that additional experience must be gained in its use to fully evaluate its potentialities."
"The following discussions were received too late to be included with the papers for above titled paper (Paper 57-689)."
"Because of the high lightning outage rates being experienced on high-voltage transmission lines, a re-examination of the physical nature of lightning was made. The investigation led to the following: 1. A theory of the time and space dynamics of burst corona was evolved, and justified within the limits of available data. 2. The burst corona concepts were used to devise a theory of the physical processes involved in the step-by-step advance of the initial leader. 3. The combination of items 1 and 2 led to the conclusion that the head or lower-most portion of the initial leader contains a very large concentration of immediately available energy. 4. The rapid dumping of the leader head charge precedes the return lightning stroke. It is therefore termed a \"prestrikerestrike.\" It results in the delivery of a high-magnitude short-time current pulse into the stricken tower. 5. The prestrike current flowing into the tower creates high-magnitude short-time voltage spikes at the tower top. It is believed that, with certain ranges of transmission-line design constants, the prestrike current determines the outage rate, rather than the return stroke current. Also, that the phenomenon accounts for the heretofore unexplained high outage rates on some transmission lines. 6. A return stroke mechanism is suggested, the details of which indicate that the current crest is reached in 5 to 10 μsec. 7. The theories are correlated with Boys camera photographic records. 8."
"1. The paper presents an analysis of the voltage-time and current-time relations to be expected on transmission lines based on the prestrike theory of the companion paper.1 2. The prestrike current is correlated with the AIEE2 return stroke current. The amplitudes of the two currents are found to be of the same order of magnitude. 3. The prestrike current waveform is influenced by the electric circuit characteristics of the stricken structure, and is found to have very high time rates of change as compared to the AIEE2 stroke current. 4. Calculated data on tower-top crest voltages and their durations are presented for a range of transmission-line design parameters. 5. The severity of the prestrike varies approximately as the square of the tower height, over the usual range of tower heights. 6. The prestrike theory predicts much higher tower-top potentials than the AIEE method, for equal stroke intensities and zero tower footing resistance. 7. Consideration of conclusions 5 and 6 in combination suggests that the poor lightning performance of some lines is due to the prestrike phenomena. 8. The presented data on prestrike waveforms are suggestive of the response required of recording devices to confirm this theory. 9. A calculation method was developed which permits the long-time analysis of numerous cases by digital computer procedures."
"A new means for regulating the output of hydroelectric generators by continuous-type electric control signals has recently been developed and tested. It consists of an electrohydraulic servo which is connected to the governor speed-adjusting mechanism through a lever system, and a magnetic amplifier which amplifies the control signal and feeds it to the servo. The whole assembly is called a governor loadcontrol auxiliary and the electrohydraulic servo is called a speed-setting transducer. Tests show that substantial improvement in system load-frequency regulation can be obtained through the use of this new means of control."
"The application of pole-mounted capacitors up to the economic limit for the system is practicable with the control system here described. The proper application of controlled capacitors requires an awareness of the several possible benefits and their relationship to the system problems being faced. For example, the master substation system shown in Fig. 1(A), when ultimately developed to a 100,000-kw load or more, may justify a total of 60,000 kvar of switched capacitors. Due to voltage interaction among banks, the total voltage correction obtainable at the banks will then exceed 14%. Since the voltage gradient over the system is quite different from that with tap-changing control, this 14% is equivalent to a considerably greater range of tap changing. The successful application of capacitors to a system permits the combination of unswitched capacitors for light-load correction with switched banks to care for load variations. Remote control is most readily justified on larger substations and does not eliminate the use of time control or other local automatic control for the solution of spot voltage or thermal problems."
"Reference 1 dealt with the computation of block foundations in different kinds of soils and the equations presented therein give the values of the yield limit moments. The additional tests which have been carried out since then have given further support to the computation theories. The equations have been further extended and are now also applicable when the moment bends over a corner of the foundation. It is not unusual for the foundation to be tilted at an oblique angle to the sides. Through the extension of the equations in the present paper, they have now a considerably greater range of application than in reference 1. The question of permissible moment has been treated for the different soils. Owing to certain probable errors of the soil characteristics, there will always be an error, of varying extent, in the computation of the foundation. The factor of safety has been chosen so high that this error will always lie between calculated and permissible moments. Greater moment than the yield limit can be permitted for a foundation in cohesion soil if the tilting moments are of short duration, e.g., if they come from wind loads, which is the case with transmission lines. Because the equations are based on soil characteristics that can be determined by simple soil investigations, and owing to the way of determining the permissible moment described in this paper, the calculation will be more accurate than in earlier methods."
"Of the several factors that determine the thermal resistivity of soils the \"dry\" density, i.e., the weight of the solid soil components per unit volume, varies the least under normal surface conditions. Because of this, and since for the same soil composition, the thermal resistivity decreases with increasing density, optimum densification should be sought for soils that must dissipate beat transmitted to them from electric cable and conduit systems. Such soils include the normally granular bedding and enveloping of the cable and conduit, the original, often cohesive, excavation soil which is employed for the upper and surface sections of the trench, and sometimes the soil outside of the trench proper if the system is placed in a loose natural soil or in fill. Obviously, the engineer entrusted with the design and construction of underground cable or conduit systems must be concerned with the principles governing the potential densities of soil materials and also with those underlying the methods by which the design densities are obtained in the field."
"The method of selection of generating capacity additions described in this paper is one which applies to the general case where there are several possible choices of location for new units, and where each location has substantially different annual costs for unit additions, transmission, fuel, and other operating costs. In cases where investment costs or fuel costs are equal for some of the locations, the problem solution can be simplified. Once a study has been made and the next new unit committed, it should be repeated prior to the addition of each subsequent unit. This insures taking of due cognizance of all factors which may be subject to change. When the study is repeated at some future date, it should be conducted for the same span of years and the target date moved ahead accordingly."
"This bibliography presents references to significant literature referring to the surge performance of transformer windings and rotating machines. Because of the importance of and continuing interest in this subject, the effort has been made to include all material published from the beginnings of the art to 1957 inclusive. Thus a total of 934 references are given, which are distributed chronologically as shown in Table I. It is clear that activity in this area is continuing at a high rate since the end of World War II. These references are from more than 100 periodicals, published in 23 countries. The international character of research in this field, due to the fact that lightning and switching surges are about the same all over the world, is therefore evident. For instance, the 137 references listed from 1955 through 1957 pertain to the following countries: United States, 10%; Italy, Switzerland, and Czechoslovakia, each 16%; Great Britian 11%; Germany and Poland, each 8%; Russia, 4%; Austria, 3%; Sweden and the Netherlands, each 2%; other countries, 4%."
"In summary, then, I believe the authors should be commended for making available these data and calculating procedures. I think that the simplified forms proposed in this discussion should be considered as alternative methods for calculating current ratings. The subject of calculating the effect of sun on the current rating needs further clarification with respect to sky radiation and sky temperature. Finally, I find it interesting that two separate organizations have been studying the same problem along exactly parallel lines, and while our investigations have not yet been completed, I must point out that in substance, we have checked, experimentally, the conclusions reached by the authors. It is apropos to suggest, therefore, that an Industry Committee be formed to consider the suggestion already made to our own organization. We feel that existing current-rating tables should be revised to reflect the more realistic values for standard conditions of 75 C conductor temperature, 25 C ambient temperature, and a crosswind velocity of 2 fps."
"This paper has described a method which is essentially empirical, but with some rational background, for utilizing tests of real and reactive losses in samples of ACSR core wires to calculate the increments in resistance and reactance of single-layer ACSR resulting from the presence of the core. The methods of using the derived data are described in detail in the companion paper,1 and comparisons of calculated and test results for representative samples are also given there. The nature of the results indicates that the resistance and reactance of singlelayer ACSR must inherently be subject to some variation from sample to sample and in the same sample for different conditions of temperature and stress. It is believed that the methods and data outlined in these two papers will be adequate to permit reasonably accurate calculations of these parameters, for all sizes of ACSR having a single-layer of aluminum around the core, for a wide range of temperatures and currents, beyond the range that can be reasonably tested indoors."
"A method is shown for calculating steady-state currents and voltages in electrical power systems which have complex elements including mutual reactances. Nodal representation is employed and the solution is obtained with the aid of digital computers by iteration."
"After the first power transformer design was produced in 1953 on the IBM (International Business Machines Corporation) Card Programmed Calculator(CPC), the load on this computer increased very rapidly, so that, early in 1955, it was necessary to order a much larger machine, the IBM 705. In order to take full advantage of the much greater capabilities of this new computer, and in order to automate completely the design process, entirely new programs were written for the preliminary design and final design of power transformers of all types and ratings. At the same time a thorough job was done of reviewing, systematizing, and optimizing the design procedures. Concurrently the product was optimized and standardized, and the \"Preferred Design\" line was developed, which presents great flexibility in the electrical characteristics with uniform standard constructional features. The IBM 705 computer was installed in Pittsfield in January 1957 and has been producing since then a great variety of optimized power transformer designs, with very satisfactory results, for proposition, requisition, design, and development purposes."
"For Eddystone Station there is a separate auxiliary power system for each main unit to supply the unit with essential auxiliaries and a station auxiliary power system to supply common plant equipment, station services, and starting requirements. Each of these systems is a radial system with 4-kv ties between systems only for starting and emergency supply. Reliability has been built into the auxiliary power supply by maintaining simplicity of design, the omission of complicated automatic throwover schemes, and the use of modern equipment of adequate capacity."
"Since the authors' paper, presented in 1953, on the subject of protection of turbine generators and boilers by automatic tripping, the Consolidated Edison Company has had 5 years' experience with three 200-mw (megawatt) units so protected. This paper relates the actual shutdowns experiened as a result of the automatic trip system's functioning. Troubles, design changes, and additions incorporated in the protection system on new units now being installed are also discussed."
"This paper has attempted to survey some of the significant manifestations of linkage flexibility on large oil circuit breakers. Due to the inherent mechanical complexity and nonlinearity which are characteristic of these devices a rigorous mathematical study can become extremely formidable. The major omissions which have been made in this study include the nonlinear effects of the linkage kinematics and, probably more important, the internal dissipation of strain energy because of friction and backlash in the linkage. Fortunately, both these effects are least significant in the region of greatest interest, namely the behavior of the system near the closed position. The simplified analyses which have been described are capable of demonstrating many of the influences which are of interest and, properly employed, yield results of the proper orders of magnitude. As has been shown, flexibility of the linkage of the large circuit breaker has an important influence on at least the following aspects of circuit-breaker mechanical behavior: 1. The time lag between trip impulse and motion to contact-part position in normal trip operation. 2. The time elapsed between contacttouch and contact-part position in tripfree operation."
"Many theoretical and experimental studies have been made since the beginning of this century on the problem of the surge performance of transformers, rotating machines, air coils, current-limiting reactors, etc. This work has led to a clear understanding of the effect of lightning, switching surges, and impulse voltages on stations and substations and on the apparatus included in them. It has also led to the introduction in all countries of insulation co-ordination, standard impulse tests, and rational protective practices. This, in turn, has achieved the result that properly designed and properly protected apparatus are now practically immune to the abnormal voltages arising during service conditions. Despite these achievements, certain aspects of the problem, both theoretical and experimental, yet remain to be solved, and work is actively progressing in this field in many countries. This paper presents a historical survey of the problem, the solutions which have been devised, and the present status of the art. It analyzes the work done in various areas through a comprehensive review of significant contributions to literature. It is hoped that this review will enable interested engineers to gain a full understanding of the problem, to be used as a basis for future original contributions in this important and fascinating field of electrical engineering. (All superscripts refer to the references listed in reference 1. The first two digits refer to the year of publication, with 19 omitted.)"
"This report is to suggest the proper scope and direction of a power utility's electrical insulation research unit, whereby the utility's specialized experience may be effectively brought to bear on general improvement of electrical insulation by the industry, and the utility may derive maximum economic and operational benefits from improvements as they become available. To give perspective, the first sections present a brief review of electrical insulation research in present-day science and industry, and of the established means of liaison between those working on the various aspects of it. Some of the principles considered may be applied to power utility research in general."
"All voltage and line length values are approximations since strict accuracy is not necessary due to variables involved. Advantages of the lesser phase-angle shifts include: being applicable to lines of shorter length or lower voltage;2 nearer normal voltage at mid-point of the line from which ice is being melted;2 ice prevention on longer lines;2 reduction of relaying problems due to fewer lines being connected in series and reduced hazzard to customer service. Introducing the 120-deg roll has an added advantage in that the direction of a 60-deg phase shift can thereby be reversed, that is, from lag to lead. This provides flexibility to meet specific conditions of in-service ice melting such as location in the line of the larger conductors, service to primary networks, and capacity of facilities serving the remote end of various lines. Although applications of the 120-deg roll are described only as affecting phase-angle shifts in the lag direction, they are also applicable to lead angles when appropriate phase connections are made. Greater phase-angle shifts provide another range of nonstandard short-circuit voltages which make possible out-of-service ice melting on a still greater range of line lengths."
"A new completely inorganic electrical insulation system has been developed which is suitable for use at operating temperatures of 500 C (degrees centigrade). Insulation components such as magnet wire, slot cells, phase insulation, and a potting or impregnating compound were developed and utilized in the construction of a 1/2-horsepower (hp) induction motor. The insulation in this motor operated for more than 500 hours at 500 C. Electrical properties of the insulation system as a function of temperature up to 500 C are briefly presented together with suggestions for its application to other types of electric apparatus."
"This paper presents a guide to predetermine the noise rating of an electric rotating machine which will satisfy the requirements of a certain psycho-acoustic criterion at any given point in the noise field of a machine or combination of machines where an operator habitually stands or where there is a stnrcture wbich houses people. The paper gives a simple method whereby one can proceed from the deafne Esrisk criterion, speech-communication criterion, or neighborhood-reaction criterion to the specification of the noise rating of a machine in terms of octave-band power levels. Because most users and manufacturers of large electric rotating machines are accustomed to the old specification of noise rating in terms of the average sound pressure level under essentially free field conditions, at a distance of 5 ft (feet) from the major surfaces of the machine, and at shaft centerline height, a simple relationship based on noise analysis tests on many machines is also presented to help correlate the new noise rating in terms of power level and the old noise rating in terms of pressure level."
"This bibliography presents references to significant literature in the field of extra-high-voltage (EHV) power systems. The most important references have been included up to 1946. Because of the rapid developments, since 1947, in the United States and abroad, of extra-high-voltage research and operating experience, the effort has been made to include all significant references from 1947 through 1957. Thus a total of 839 references are given, which are distributed chronologically as shown in Table I. It is clear that interest in extra-high voltages has increased steadily from the end of World War II to 1954, and is continuing to the present. These references are from more than 100 periodicals, published in 20 countries. The international character of the extrahigh- voltage art is therefore evident. For instance, the 173 references listed for 1956 and 1957 pertain to the following countries: United States 33%; USSR, 24%; Germany, 1 1%; Sweden, 8%; Switzerland, 6%; Great Britain, 4%; Canada, 3%; France, 3%; Finland, 2%; Japan and Italy, 1% each; other countries, 2%."
"A group of synchronous machine sets may enjoy the operating advantages of time-error governing in regard to accurate load division and at the same time be coupled through a tie line to a much larger system. The method of governing of the larger system is not important and the tie-line power transfer can be kept at any schedule value with a controller. Two time-error-governed areas may be linked by a tie line in which the power transfer can be kept to a schedule value while each area supplies only its own load deviations; to do this, angle-sensitive tie-line controllers are required. The paper describes the operation of a miniature power system built to solve problems arising when synchronous machines are controlled in the foregoing manner. The detailed operation of the angle-sensitive tie-line controller is also given, together with system-operating results of an exploratory nature, both computed and from the miniature system."
"Magnetic air circuit breakers are now rated 8 cycles even though they inherently demonstrate 5-cycle performance. It is therefore the responsibility of the manufacturer to test the circuit breakers so that the duty imposed by the system does not result in misapplications. To assure proper application as 5-cycle breakers the tests should show that: 1. The interrupting time does not exceed 5 cycles. 2. The rated interrupting current shall be symmetrical amperes. 3. An asymmetrical current, whose total rms value is 10% greater than the rated interrupting current, be interrupted. 4. All interrupting tests be made with a recovery voltage equal to the system voltage."
"When a motor is started through a transformer bank that serves both power and lighting loads, there is a dip in voltage on the lighting circuits. A digital computer study has been made of the voltage on the lighting phase during motor starting for the open-delta connection of transformer secondary windings. Equivalent circuits have been developed for the general case of the open-delta transformer connections having legs of different kilovolt-ampere ratings."
"1. In Appendix I, a computational procedure for the solution of economic load dispatching problems is developed. The equations are in generalized form in that the variables at any entering node to the network may be either the vector potential above ground or else the vector current entering the electric network. Generating station losses as well as electric network losses are included. 2. An example is presented in the body of the paper which involves three generators and two loads. The equations presented in Appendix I are adapted to fit this specific problem. In so doing, it was elected to replace the generalized variables by voltages above ground at all entering nodes on the electric network. 3. Numerical results for the example are presented in Appendix II. 4. The method presented in this paper requires the solution of simultaneous algebraicequations, some of which involve nonlinearities. Experience with the example suggests: (a) A Taylor's series expansion technique is applicable; (b) The selection of a starting point, in the multidimensional domain of the variables, that will lie near the point representing the actual solution, is of vital importance in assuring the rapid convergence of the calculations; (c) The selection of such a point may be achieved by computing a common incremental rate Pa' at the generating stations while neglecting the electric network losses, and then computing the electric potentials plus the Lagrange multipliers while assuming equal but unspecified incremental power rates for the generators."
"This paper describes the development and application of dependable stream-flow forecasting procedures for more effective scheduling and routing of the water resources available to the U. S. Columbia River Power System. The established procedures which are facilitated by the use of a general-purpose digital computer constitute an important step toward obtaining maximum utilization of the water resources for power production. The computer speeds the forecast calculations and permits quicker development of water routings for current system operations. Management is thereby given assurance to permit the sale of additional secondary power with adequate protection that subsequent system firmpower requirements will be fully met."
"Studies made on insulation containing natural voids which usually occur as prolate spheroids and on artificial voids in the form of cylindrical cavities, show that the discharge inception voltage and resulting deterioration above the inception voltage is considerably different in the two types of voids."
"The magnetic fields produced around a transmission line tower by the passage of lightning current down the tower have been investigated by the use of geometrical models. The results show that former measurements of tower currents with magnetic links must be reappraised. The equivalent cylinder that represents a transmission tower has been determined experimentally, and the effective tower inductance and surge impedance derived. A new and more accurate method for interpreting tower magnetic-link measurements of lightning surges is described."
"The electrical breakdown of low and high-molecular-weight hydrocarbon gases and vapors as a function of the number of hydrogen (H) atoms replaced by chlorine (Cl) and fluorine (F) is discussed in this paper. The relationship between electrical breakdown and the number of Cl and F atoms attached to the ring of trifluoromethylbenzene is given. The electrical breakdowns of cyclohexyl and aromatic ring compounds are compared. The variation of electrical breakdown with the number of trifluoromethyl groups attached to cyclohexyl and aromatic rings, and also the effect of the molecular weight on the electrical breakdown of straightchain and cyclic compounds are shown."
"A combination amplitude and frequency discrimination technique has been developed to investigate the amplitude and harmonic content of surge voltages in electric machinery during switching. Bypass networks of 10 kc (kilocycles per second), 100 kc, and 2 mc (megacycles per second) were used in conjunction with a voltage divider to measure surges voltages at the line terminals of an induction motor during plug reversing. These bypass networks enabled measurement of the voltage amplitude of a surge as a function of its harmonic content. Oscilloscope photographs were used to establish the amplitudes of the surge voltages having frequency components between 0 and 30 mc."
"The thermal testing of ventilated dry-type transformers, because of their different thermal structure as contrasted to oil-immersed transformers, requires consideration of, and provision for, evaluation of effects that are different in magnitude and in rate of temperature change. Thus different testing methods, precautions, corrections, and compromises are necessary to obtain reproducible test results. Data are presented utilizing various thermal testing methods for several representative units; suggestions are made for correlating these methods. Indications are also given regarding the relative accuracy of the results."
"1. There are many variables entering the compromise heat run taken with singlephase current and 3-phase excitation. To establish an acceptable heat run practice for this type of compromise will of necessity require a complete analysis of the physical structure to be tested as well as temperature gradients, casing material, and spacing, and perhaps still other variables including electrical losses and impedance. It is suggested that consideration be given to winding ratio adjustments made by tap setting to reduce \"proximity\" factors to a minimum. 2. A straightforward excitation run followed by a current run seems to offer the simplest approach. Although it is somewhat more time-consuming, it can be performed with the same facilities usually found in areas used for testing transformers. 3. If further testing shows that simple equations such as equations 15 and 16 of the paper are applicable to the many types of ventilated transformers now being manufactured, a major contribution to the art will have been made."
"Index of technical subjects and participants in discussions."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"In the conventional envelope detector, shown in Fig. 1a, the picture information contained in the sidebands is demodulated by rectification of the envelope formed by the carrier and the sidebands. As the signal strength falls, the signal becomes progressively lost in the continuous noise spectrum characteristic of galactic, antenna, and tuner noise. The rectification of this noise produces a d-c component which prevents the detection of white picture information below this d-c level."
"To achieve a more detailed understanding of the factors contributing to deflective distortions, an analysis was made of a simple ring deflection yoke. This type of yoke was selected because its magnetic field can be described by an infinite series whose first term is of principal significance. A practical ring yoke can be wound (with a simple sinusoidal winding distribution) which will establish a magnetic field described completely by this first term. Additional windings can also be added which produce fields corresponding to any of the subsequent terms of the series. This permits a detailed study of the effects of the winding distribution function upon the deflection distortions. Fortunately, these higher order fields are all zero on the yoke axis and are always negligible in the study of small angle deflections."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Spurious radiation that is generated by any type of superheterodyne type of receiver has presented a mammoth problem to the industry. That is, limits set up by the FCC had to be met by the industry. The amount of work that has been done by the industry toward this end has been tremendous."
"To meet FCC radiation limits, uhf strips and tuners must be designed to take full advantage of normal double-tuned circuit skirt attenuation so that a prohibitive increase in cost and complication can be avoided. UHF strips must also meet the normal radiation limits on the oscillator fundamental, as well as the limits on used and unused harmonics, on both the vhf and uhf antenna connections. Techniques and typical designs are described, and typical field measurements are given."
"The vertical oscillator of a TV set, whether a multivibrator or a blocking oscillator, can be very dependent upon the cutoff characteristic of the tube. It can affect the speed or frequency of the oscillator, the linearity and the synchronizing characteristic. There are several classes of cutoff current of the tube, namely that which is controlled by the grid voltage and that which is uncontrolled or ``dead'' plate current. Both of these have different effects on the performance of the circuit and tube. Some circuits are sensitive to cutoff currents as low as 10-4 times the peak current drawn during the cycle. Circuits can be modified to mitigate the effect of tube cutoff and several ways of doing this are described in the paper."
"Design of practical automatic fine tuning circuitry for production receivers involves problems of interaction with many of the functions of a television receiver including the tuner, IF amplifier, video and intercarrier sound stages, and automatic gain control circuits. This paper describes a receiver incorporating solutions to these problems as well as a method of programmed automatic fringe tuning."
"A synchronous detector is described in which the nonlinear element generates its own reference carrier from a pair of adjacent harmonics. This design is shown to offer many advantages, especially in triode circuits."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Measurements on tube deflection systems allow us to determine the deflection power requirements for any given picture tube and yoke. Since the output requirements for a transistor deflection system are thus known, it is convenient to start with an investigation of the deflection output stage."
"A television receiver sound section consists of the following circuits: 1. sound take-off circuits and 4.5-Mc sound i-f amplifier; 2. FM detector; 3. audio amplifier."
"Provides a listing of upcoming events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Though advancements in the last few years have resulted in a rapidly accelerating increase in the use of transistors in the military, computer and also the consumer products fields, many application engineers, at least in certain portions of the consumer products field, have not had a chance to handle this device and hence their acquaintance with the transistor may still be relatively limited."
"The development of the transistor has progressed to the point where practical video amplifiers of quality comparable to those of vacuum tubes can be designed. Limitations such as collector-emitter voltage, power, and alpha cut-off frequency continue to pose problems in designing a one stage video amplifier."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The undesired effects of co-channel television interference vary both with the intensity and the frequency of the interfering signal. It is found that there are three types of frequency-variation of objectionability, namely: (1) A progressive decrease of objectionability as the frequency of the undesired signal is shifted away from the carrier frequency of the desired signal, which we have called the Beat Size Effect; (2) superimposed on the Beat Size Effect there is a cyclic variation in objectionability which repeats at intervals corresponding to the horizontal scanning frequency; and (3) superimposed on each of these variations there is a ``finegrain'' cyclic variation which repeats at intervals corresponding to the vertical scanning frequency. We have called the cyclic variation (2) and (3) Beat Pattern Effects. Advantage may be taken of the Beat Size Effect and the Beat Pattern Effects to reduce co-channel television interference by appropriate specification of the operating frequencies and frequency tolerances of the desired and undesired stations. It is shown that it is also possible to reduce the objectionable effects of co-channel television interference by the use of certain post-detection devices in the television receiver. Narrow-band video filters, high-pass video filters, and diode clamp video correction circuits have given promising results."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The side-fire helical antenna, successfully used for UHF and VHF high channel television transmission, has now been adapted for low channel VHF service. Investigation of properties of a helical radiator wound around a polygonal supporting structure has made possible the required increased bandwidth and provided directional patterns for special TV coverage applications. Through scale model work, a channel 2 directional antenna has been developed for installation around a triangular tower section."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"An automatic preset television program switching system allows video signal, audio signal and projection system to be set-up in the desired sequence in advance of air-time. This permits an increase in number of switches, more complex integration and most important flawless switching during the commercial time periods between or during programs."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The author gives his views on the three predominant characteristics of modern standards. He then goes on to discuss the timeliness of this reexamination of measurement needs and the critical role of standards in an expanding technology. The most predominant characteristic of modern standards is their dynamic nature. First, accuracies are continually being increased, and second, the range of conditions for which standards are required is continually expanding. Standards must be provided both for much larger and for much smaller quantities as well as for measurements over wider ranges of the electromagnetic spectrum. Each extension of either accuracy or range involves the solution of increasingly difficult measurement problems. Another requirement for useful standards at any time but of particular criticality with modern standards is that they must be rigorously consistent within the whole chain of measurement leading back to the international prototype standards representing the fundamental units of mass, length, and time. In terms of an expanding science and technology this consistency is far from easy to assure. Very of ten the achievements of special and active segments of science outdistance the standards which can be provided. Finally, the third characteristic of modern standardization is that we are making effective steps to move away from arbitrary prototype standards as the basis of measurement to a reliance on natural constants."
"The basic electrical units are maintained by groups of standard cells and resistors. With these standards and a de potentiometer, measurements of direct voltage and current are readily made with an accuracy of 0.01 per cent or better. Corresponding measurements of alternating voltage and current at power and audio frequencies depend, at the present time, upon ac-dc transfer instruments which have nearly equal ac and de response. Such instruments may be calibrated on direct current and then used on alternating current, or alternatively, may be used directly to make ac-dc difference measurements, as in the certification of other instruments."
"Some of the special problems which have arisen in connection with operation of a facility such as this have been discussed and the types of calibration services provided by the Sperry Gyroscope Company, together with the calibration facilities used for those services described. In all work the reliability aspects of calibration, with particular emphasis on the hierarchy system of standards and calibrations, are stressed. Experience, since the establishment of the Electrical Standards Laboratory in 1941, indicates this type of facility is necessary and practical for operations in the Sperry Gyroscope Company. In fact, it is even more important today as a result of major reorganizations which have taken place in the last several years at Sperry and which have resulted in a more decentralized organization with a number of autonomous product divisions."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The complexity of modern equipment used by industry and by the military has resulted in a serious problem of providing adequate maintenance. Of the various tasks which must be performed in maintenance of such equipment, the most difficult is troubleshooting, or the location of malfunctions. Under current methods of training and utilizing maintenance technicians, it is generally considered necessary that the technicians have a comprehensive grasp of the intricate interrelationships between the parts of equipment and the way the parts function as a system. Knowledge of these interrelationships often requires a background of high level physics and engineering. Despite this, technical schools, both in industry and in the military, have often been given the almost impossible task of providing such knowledge in short courses of a year or less. In the face of this situation, various approaches to solution of this problem are being attempted. The present paper pertains to two methods of dealing with the problem through simplification of the troubleshooting tasks of maintenance personnel. These two approaches to simplification of maintenance requirements are (a) the design and utilization of more or less automatic testing eqaipments, and (b) the improved design and use of on-the-job performance supports in the form of easy-to-follow job instructions. In the present paper we shall first examine the general characteristics of several interim solutions. This will include examples of how the solutions might be applied in specific, simple situations. Then we shall present a condensed table indicating the optimal conditions for use of each solution."
"In an earlier paper3 which appeared in this Transactions, the author showed in the appendixes two methods of estimating the shape and scale parameters of a Weibull distribution from a set of life testing data. They are: (I) the method of least squares for the transformed data, and (II) the method of maximum likelihood for ungrouped data. It was pointed out that since the method of least squares was the simpler of the two, it could be used as a first approximation for getting the maximam likelihood estimate which involves solving, by trial and error, two simultaneous transcendental equations. As a measure of simplifying the computation of the analysis, the author suggested fixing the shape parameters at m = 1.7, when studying the reliability of electron tubes. This value of m = 1.7 was an average value based upon the life experience data, then available to the author, of some 2,000 electron tubes. With the wide popularity and availability of electronic computer, the above simplifications are no longer necessary, though still desirable for reasons explained in the text. This paper describes two additional methods for which the computers are almost indispensable. They are: (III) the method of maximum likelihood for grouped data, and (IV) the method of minimized chi-squares. For the sake of discussion, the two previous methods (I and II) are briefly reviewed."
"The classical approach to reliability improvement is based on a single feedback loop embracing design, development, production, and field service. A procedure of multiple sequential feedback is described which ties in with reliability prediction to provide a specified reliability on the first production run. Techniques are described which can be applied to many industrial operations. Illustrations show how tests and analyses of various kinds fit in."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Mechanical concepts must be applied to modify electronic circuit design in order that large scale computer equipment can attain practical levels of reliability. This paper cites some specific mechanical design problems with regard to the reliability of a particular computer system, the AN/FSQ-7."
"Component part reliability testing programs of varying scope are in progress in many areas of the electronics industry today. These programs differ in magnitude, levels of environmental and electrical stress, and types of component parts tested, but properly designed programs have one aspect in common: They can result not only in reliability evaluation, but also in reliability improvement. This paper will discuss techniques for optimizing circuit reliability by application of component characteristic data obtained from reliability testing."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A method to assist in the selection of a material for cable lacing bundles is discussed. Heretofore little work has been published evaluating cable lacings, and opinions vary widely as to the proper material to use. This paper is intended to help resolve some of these opinions by presenting the results of an experiment performed at our plant. Five rolls of twine and tape were evaluated to determine which material (base material and coating) would best serve our requirements."
"This paper describes the use of a sampling method of inspection testing for the purpose of controlling reliability in a system. The acceptable quality level (AQL) and mean failure free time can be estimated by the maximum likelihood method, assuming that errors are distributed by the Poisson Law. Hence, a choice of quality levels or reliability levels can be made. Single or multiple sampling plans may be used depending on the cost factors, the sample size, and the available information on reliability. The sample size, acceptance number, and cost due to Type I and Type II errors are each considered. One aim of inspection testing is to determine when preventable failures occur. An inspection lot in this case is a test run of a system for a given time. The system is accepted or rejected on the basis of the number of failures found in the sample tests. The object of the inspection system is (1) to accept the reliability of the system at least 100 (1-A) per cent of the time when the true life is more than T1 and (2) to accept the reliability of the system not more than a small proportion, B, of the time when the true mean life is less than T2, T2 ≪ T1."
"This paper suggests a method of studying the effect of environmental factors on missile parts and components for the following cases: 1. When the effects of preoperational environments are being investigated. 2. When environmental test facilities are sufficiently sophisticated to allow simultaneous application of operational environments to be made while the item is functioning. 3. When the first two conditions are satisfied and both types of information are being studied. The investigation of the behavior pattern of the items over the environmental space is carried out by combining censored life testing with statistical experimental designs and illustrating the results by response surfaces."
"Covers volumes PGQC-1 through PGRQC-15 1952-1958. Provides an index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"Describes the above-named upcoming conference event. May include topics to be covered or calls for papers."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"In a rapidly expanding engineering organization the need for first-line supervision is as critical, if not more so, as for working engineers. For the development of a stable organization, this supervision must come from the ranks of the engineering force. The training of an engineer for supervision must, of necessity, be on-the-job training. This is usually a long and sometimes delicate process. The problems that arise fall into two main categories. The first category involves the specific techniques of administration- preparation of budgets, merit-increase policy, service reviews, and general organization. The second category involves the specific techiques of project control-determination of engineering schedules, coordination of the activities of a group of engineers, and the problem of communications between groups. The new supervisor must not only be educated in these areas, but he must also be helped in making the transition to supervision. Problems arise in maintaining an effective working relationship with people who may now be working for him rather than with him. The new supervisor also has a personal problem of reorienting himself, of seeing the company organization in a different light. The intent of this paper is to discuss these problems and the methods used to guide engineers through this transition period in a rapidly expanding engineering department of RCA."
"A plan for establishing management controls is presented which uses the basic management control principles of organizing, planning, executing, and follow-up. The particular experience of our company is cited whereby the assignment was given to staff personnel who had the requisite experience and company service. Each of the steps in the control process is explained, with emphasis on the follow-up activity which makes possible the continuing acceptance and usefulness of the established controls. The importance of building an over-all operational system is also discussed."
"This paper discusses the very common problem of overstaffing in a large development engineering effort. A number of the technical, organizational, and psychological problems that lead to inefficiency in the engineering effort are discussed. It is shown that because of this variation of efficiency with size, the ``usual'' man-hour estimate may be meaningless. In fact, it is asserted that an increase in staff may actually lead to an increase in total time for accomplishing a development engineering effort. Finally, it is pointed out that the usual mechanisms for estimating efforts of new assignments may automatically perpetuate or even intensify an overstaffing problem."
"The philosophy of management of a Navy Bureau of Aeronautics Research and Development activity is described and compared with similar large size industrial activities. Complications arise in execution because of the external influence of a Civil Service, which has not been adapted to technological growth. The impact of staff organization, both in the Navy and the Secretary of Defense, is similar to the situation in huge centralized corporations. Military control is not considered to be a problem. The efforts of a military laboratory must be aimed at improving the capabilities of its parent service to wage war. This puts the Navy laboratory into the development and applied research field rather than its basic research. Freedom of investigation is enhanced since development is against a concept and not against a cash balance."
"The task of measuring engineering effectiveness can be broken down by an analysis of measurement of effectiveness and engineering. These parts are examined from the point of view of top Management, Sales, Manufacturing, Customer, Competitor, Research, and the Engineering Department itself to determine views on the subject of measuring the Engineering Department's effectiveness. Virtually in all departments time, price, and quality are paramount points of interest. These features mean slightly different things in the various departments and a detailed breakdown is given for the Engineering Department itself. Perhaps the major idea postulated is that of meeting a goal by meeting it exactly rather than under-running or over-running."
"Restricting its attention to those non-policy-making technical communications within the defense industry, this paper attempts 1) to show the importance of such communications by means of practical examples, 2) to survey and evaluate current systems employed for both internal and external communications by firms of differing size, and 3) to suggest possible alternative systems for ameliorating extant problems. In particular, it is maintained that within an increasingly competitive environment, it is management's responsibility to foster those systems of communication which minimize losses resulting from the duplication of effort. Possible methods for attaining this end are discussed, resulting in the specific conclusion that a more highly integrated, centrally located group would diminish wasted engineering time by recording all relevant technical information in such a manner that it would be easily accessible to the engineering staff."
"Inventions to be patentable must be reduced to practice and embodied in some distinct machinery or composition of matter that will work and accomplish its intended purpose. The mental process of the inventor must be complete and brought to a point where invention ceases and construction may begin. This law does not require that an inventor develop his discovery to the highest degree of perfection, but he must describe his method with sufficient clearness and precision to enable those skilled in the matter to understand what the discovery is and point out a practicable way of putting it into operation. It is not the object of these laws to grant a monopoly for every trifling device, every shadow of a shade of an idea which would naturally spontaneously occur to any skilled mechanic or operator in the ordinary process of manufacture."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"All problems of management can ultimately be traced to human beings. The technical manager must have the respect of his people to be effective. They can best assess him through the common ground of technical ability. It is the obligation of the technical manager to convey his philosophy of management to his people and to train them in his methods of operation. The successful manager must constantly fight the desire to participate in the technical details of work. He must realize that it is wrong for him to make decisions which are not appropriate to his level in the organization where those decisions should be made by either those above or those below. He must permit people who work for him the freedom to make mistakes. Engineers have an underlying fear of criticism which makes supervising them often very difficult. This fear of criticism hinders their effective delegation of work. The aspirant to managerial status should seek out criticism and get used to receiving it. Reviews of work performance which have been requested of a supervisor will be invaluable in developing the recipient's managerial skills since it provides a greater awareness of the human problems that are involved in this phase of technical management."
"The paper suggests a method of quantitatively evaluating a managerial decision as a deliberate choice between different courses of action. The method, called the ``Comprehensive Comparison Method,'' is demonstrated in application to two examples: the first describes the author's investigation of economic problems of submarine telephone cables. The second example presents a comprehensive comparison of radio and cable communication links. In both cases the weighting system is evolved. Analysis of the total weighted scores for each choice gives a valuable guide when the final decision has to be made. This guide should not be mistaken, however, for the decision itself."
"This paper cites that, in the evolution of major systems, many new engineering responsibilities have been created. A critical analysis is made of the systems engineering task to be accomplished and recommendations for action are stated. The basis of education of the systems engineer is also briefly discussed."
"The present utilization of engineers and scientists by industry and its significance to the ``shortage'' of scientific manpower has been investigated. Based upon available data, a limited-sample survey of scientific manpower in the aviation and electronic industries, and analyses, a rough estimate indicates that the probable average effectiveness of these scientists is somewhat less than ten per cent of perfect utilization. Various methods of increasing scientific productivity are examined. An operations research study is suggested. Improvements of communications, management techniques, and data processing methods are several recommendations. A brief history of scientific manpower supply and demand is presented. Motivations of scientists are studied, as are motivations which lead students into science careers. Estimates are made of the future supply of and demand for scientific manpower, assuming present utilization. These figures indicate the shortage will become a surplus by 1971."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"Capability and economy in complex missile systems demand fundamental changes in technical management. Improvement can begin with military requirement, development, and procurement agencies in their management of the initiation and follow-up of the project. Of greatest importance is the complete involvement of senior technical personnel in conception and development, apart from auxiliary service and supervision. Formal organization and responsibility of the systems engineering staff provide the technical management key to this problem. Reliability requirements of complex missiles seem to have confounded technical management. Yet the physical work necessary to develop equipment reliability parallels standard procedure for building in other required characteristics."
"To a large extent, proposals determine the success of a firm doing contracted work in the electronics industry. Because of the short time schedules allowed for the preparation of most proposals, it is difficult for a firm to produce material of the quality it would like. By first reviewing the processes involved in proposal preparation, it is concluded that greater preparation time is afforded through establishing time schedules, responsibilities, and over-all policy in advance. Comparisons of the proposal to other advertising media are made, resulting in the general conclusion that factors other than engineering merit help to determine proposal effectiveness. These factors are then discussed along with budgetary restrictions."
"Among the tools currently used by management to appraise its employees is the ``Merit Review System.'' The majority of companies in industry make an attempt to ``rate'' each employee objectively, using a standardized rating form, and adjust salary accordingly. It is this writer's opinion that a true appraisal of an employee is a very subjective matter that takes into account many elements not found on most rating forms. Employee reviewing is a continuing process, not a matter that should be considered by a supervisor twice a year. This paper highlights some of the disadvantages of the present objective systems, and offers instead a system whereby a supervisor is given great latitude in reviewing his subordinates. It is further suggested that a merit review should be considered separately from a salary adjustment so that the employee's review will not reflect a budgetary allowance given to a supervisor for raises."
"Illogic resulting from emotional thinking may be found at all levels of engineering. Typical instances are the NIH (not invented here) factor, wishful thinking, self-protection, and half-hearted compromises. Methods of the engineering supervisor or manager for filtering out the emotionally inspired illogic in order to reach clear decisions are presented. These range from defining the basic problem to making a balance sheet and weighing both tangible and intangible factors. Also discussed are some principles for removing the incentives for emotional thinking. One of the most prominent of these is the promotion of a desire to work for a common goal by organization which provides clear and nonconflicting responsibilities, and by increased identification with the company."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"This article presents a transcript of the panel discussion held at the Conference on Electronics in Industry co-sponsored by Armour Research Foundation and the IRE Professional Group on Industrial Electronics, on April 9-10, 1957. The first session was convened on Tuesday afternoon, April 9, at 4:15 P.M., with Dr. Eugene Mittelmann, Chairman, presiding."
"In order to obtain maximum productivity, longest tool life, and high-quality surface finish on a lathe, it is necessary that the machining be done at a constant surface cutting speed. This is particularly true with the use of carbide cutting tools where deviations from optimum cutting speed must be maintained within extremely close limits. A system was proposed using a direct current motor in conjunction with a multistage field regulator in a closed loop system to provide constant cutting speed on an automatic copy lathe. An analog study of the system was made in order to determine what performance could be expected and how performance could be improved. This paper presents a qualitative discussion of the analog study, together with the results obtained and the conclusions reached."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper deals with the development of a completely transistorized and encapsulated telemetering device capable of transmitting signal data from high-speed machines at speeds up to 54,000 rpm. The need for this type of telemetering arose from the simple fact that in many instances it was not convenient to install contacting devices of a permanent nature on certain types of turbine machinery and the like, due to space limitations and limitations in the maximum number of information channels."
"The paper presents a discussion of the types of analog transducers in use today for the automatic control of machine tools. Mentioned are comparator type transducers as used in tracer heads as well as direct measuring type transducers used for numerical positioning and numerical contouring controls. Types of transducers are classified and discussed from the standpoint of application and expected accuracy."
"The characteristics of magnetic pickups are discussed with regard to practical application. The principles of operation are discussed briefly and the output voltages illustrated are taken under actual operating conditions at various speeds. The mechanical construction is covered in progressive steps. Various models for both low and high temperature applications are described. A brief description of the principle of operation of the eddy current or proximity pickup is presented. The operating clearance range is given for various models. A description is given of the use of proximity pickups for counting work parts, for controlling feed and for initiating steps of operation in automated factories."
"This paper describes a new approach for the classification of instruments for measurement and control. Most of the previous classifications grouped the instruments according to their input and output characteristics, this new classification groups the instruments in terms of precision, dynanic behavior, shelf life, reliability of operation and purchase characteristics; such as cost, availability and volume. Each characteristic is specified by a decimal digit. Each digit number defines the performance of instruments for a specific quality within one order of magnitude. This classification serves the systems engineers for a selection of compatible instruments to solve a specific problem of measuremnt or control. A perforated card system is described permitting the selection of suitable instruments once the performance parameters for a specific problem has been established. This classification was established for and with the cooperation of the Institute of Radio Engineers Sub-committee 10.3 of Industrial Electronics."
"A basically new method for sub-sieve particle size analysis is described, with emphasis on the three dimensional nature of the measurement principle. Previous methods are comparatively reviewed, and the role played by electronics in enabling speed and accuracy of the new method is discussed. By suspending particles in a conductive liquid and causing the suspension to flow through an immersed aperture with electrodes on either side, a series of voltage pulses is produced by the passages of individual particles. This series of pulses is electronically scaled and counted. Various aspects of basic response, effects of coincident passages and calibration methods are discussed. Applications to a variety of materials are covered, with extension to different forms of data presentation for process control purposes. A number of specific example are included."
"The technique for automatic testing of electronic components must be adapted to the requirements for each individual test program. This paper describes the methods employed in instrumenting two test programs. The first involves approximately 75,000 components of four types - resistors, diodes, transistors and capacitors - all being tested for an extended period under environmental and electrical load conditions. The second program, in contrast, describes the parameter measurements which have to be made on small quantities of semiconductor devices under nuclear radiation conditions."
"The theory of operation is given for a gas analyzer utilizing the speed of sound for its operation. Sensitivities to traces of common gases in both air and helium are given. When suitable gas chromatography tubes are used with the analyzer, the quantitative analysis of some gas mixtures can be made using peak readings of the analyzer."
"There are two basic arguments for the importance of high-speed voltage-to-digital translation equipment in an industrial control system. The first is that early voltage-to-digital conversion is an important step toward overall system reliability. Second, in a system where such equipment is used, in many applications system accuracy can be achieved only through the use of a high-speed converter. The first argument - the one for system reliability - is the more well-known of the two and is therefore considered only briefly. The second argument - system accuracy via high - speed digitization - is treated more fully and is exemplified by descriptions of specific applications of high-speed conversion devices."
"This paper discusses some of the basic reasons why digital equipment, rather than analog equipment, is preferable for logging and control systems. Characteristics of system components such as input multiplexer and digitizer, digital computer, and output devices are discussed as parts of an integrated, flexible, and reliable industrial data handling and control system. In discussing the functional role played by each of the above system components, broad design criteria are developed for their construction, and operation is demonstrated when controlled by a general-purpose digital computer."
"Various sorting operations, such as the sorting of sacked mail in terminals throughout the country, become very complex operations. In order to meet the requirements of complex systems such as these, a rugged, trouble free control system has been developed around computer techniques which give an extremely high degree of versatility. This article describes such a system which has been installed and is now operating in Philadelphia."
"Duty cycle, or pulse width, modulation can be used to advantage in transistor circuits where the desired output is a direct current or slowly varying voltage such as required in proportional control systems. For a prescribed transistor dissipation, several times greater load power can be controlled by this technique than with class A operation. Conversely, for a given load power, the transistor can be operated at lower dissipation and thus at higher temperatures than is permissible with conventional modes of operation. Circuits have been devised for several different types of load circuits and also for signal generation. Combination of the duty-cycle modulation generation and output circuits yields a unique direct current amplifier."
"An instrument-type magnetic amplifier is operated with positive feedback to produce high gain. A negative feedback loop then trades this gain to achieve high effective input impedance. The resultant circuit presents negligible loading to a low-impedance thermocouple for use in temperature sensing and control equipments. Two circuits are analyzed to determine conditions for optimum performance. One circuit has a single-stage amplifier; the other circuit uses a two-stage magnetic amplifier. Amplifier operation is analyzed and the behavior is predicted from the resulting equations. Predicted performance compares favorably with measured performance. The analytical results are used to optimize amplifier parameters and to anticipate the best amplifier for a given circuit. A typical practical circuit is found to have an error of about 2 per cent when adjusted for an optimum gain of 262."
"The area beneath an analog curve (integral) is often a useful measurement in a host of different fields. However, resolution, inertia, response, and general performance of integrating devices has until now precluded their use in the study of transient and dynamic phenomena. The ALINCO Model 270 Integrating System is an all-electronic integrator invented by Mr. Charles M. Minke, ALINCO Production Manager. The heart of the system is a reactance tube oscillator tuned to 100 kc. Using suitable mixers, gates, and programming circuitry, the Model 270 displays elapsed time and total integral on decimal counter units with high resolution and linearity. Counting begins by preset signal level or by closing contacts, and stops by signal decay, preset time, or by closing contacts. For transient phenomeona, 100 milliseconds would provide 1000 counts for a readability of 0.1%. For long-term phenomena (over 100 seconds), provision has been made for hook-up of accessory counters to count beyond the capacity of the instrument. In data reduction where analog signals or records are integrated, the Model 270 represents a fast, direct, and more accurate solution, especially where short rise times and rapidly changing amplitudes exist."
"A review is made of the application of x-ray photoelectric effect and scattering to diverse problems of measurement. The basis of operation of thickness and coating weight gages, spectrographic analyzers, diffraction apparatus, and inspection equipment will thereby be shown. It is recognised that many of the measurements now being made with x-rays could be made in no other way; thus, it is especially hoped that a useful solution may be suggested for yet unsolved problems."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"The use of capacitance-type measuring methods is described for indicating and controlling the level of liquid, granular or powdery materials. The purpose of this paper is twofold. First, it summarizes commercially available devices for various requirements (on-off control, proportional indication, proportional control, or combinations of these). Second, it formulates a method of analysis enabling users to choose suitable probe designs for specific applications."
"The modern refinery is perhaps the test example of continuous flowprocessing in American industry. This paper shows how the concept of automatic data handling was applied in the design, construction, and instrumentation of one of the world's most modern refineries. Benefits made available through the integration of a modern automatic data handling system accrue not only from manpower savings, but from many other sources such as reduction in other instrument requirements, timeliness of information, etc. The primary concern of this paper is to show how the automatic data handling system is incorporated in the conceptual design of the plant, and how once installed, it is commissioned, and its data correlated with that of other information sources in such a plant. As a further point of interest, other potential applications for automatic physical data handling systems are suggested by the author."
"This three-part paper first discusses (a) large-scale computers preparing automation; (b) computing devices in the automatized plant; (c) computing devices and engineering calculations. Next the author discusses the organization of a computing laboratory for engineering calculations. In the final part some implications of automation and large computing devices are considered."
"The industrial control field is constantly adapting new techniques and procedures. These changes are motivated by industry's need to tum out their products faster and with greater precision. To make these improvements possible the manufacturers of mechanical, electrical, pneumatic, and hydraulic equipment are constantly developing new components and systems. Some components are developed on the basis of a general industry need and others for specific applications. The latter group of components, though designed for specific applications, become standard components as control-system designers begin to visualize how they may be applied to other control problems. The electro-hydraulic servo valve is in its transition period. The success achieved in military and machine-tool applications indicates that its potential for industrial control problems is very high. To apply the servo valve, the industrial control-system designer must become familiar with its functions, capabilities, reliability, economics, and some special considerations. These factors are quite interrelated and it is the over-all evaluation of these factors which determine its suitability. This paper hopes to assist the industrial-control field toward a better understanding of the servo valve."
"In considering automatic techniques, many and varied definitions of greatly overused and misused words are applied. Certainly ``automatic,'' ``machine,'' and ``control'' are out in front in so far as repetition is concerned. In order to chart a course through the material to be presented in this paper, I will arbitrarily consider that automatic machine control is a condition whereby material is manufactured by a piece of machinery, with suitable equipment to measure the product while it is being manufactured and provide corrections to the machine itself to produce material within desired limits. The gages in this configuration of measuring equipment will be dimensional measuring devices indicating diameter, length, thickness, and so on."
"The automatic control of a dynamic batch-weighing system integrates many functions, more commonly associated with automation in the machine-tool industry. They are: 1. Power converting 2. Power actuating 3. Sensing 4. Regulating 5. Communicating 6. Programming 7. Computing 8. Data converting 9. Data storing 10. Data presenting Data storing and data presenting are the functions that directly involve the use of a punch card and similar information-storage media, and will be developed in detail."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The biological aspects of bioelectric potentials are reviewed, equivalent electric circuits of the bioelectric generator derived, and grid current magnitude deleterious to a living cell evaluated. The pipette microelectrode is superior to the metallic microelectrode for simultaneous recording of resting and action potentials. However, the low-pass circuit formed by the high electrode resistance (1 to 100 megohms) and the amplifier input capacity causes distortion of the action potential waveform. The distortion can be reduced by amplifier equalization, capacity reduction, and capacity neutralization. Some of the limitations of these methods are: 1) Compensation for waveform distortion due to the low-pass circuit results in an increase of the amplifier noise, approximately as the inverse characteristic of the low-pass circuit. A filter for improving the signal-to-noise ratio is considered. 2) Neutralization is accomplished with a generated negative capacity which approximates a pure capacity only over a limited bandwidth. This limitation may be evaluated with a six-element synthetic circuit closely approximating a realizable negative capacity. 3) The accuracy of neutralization adjustment is inherently limited by the difficulty of inserting a calibrating voltage in place of the bioelectric generator. Moreover, the distributed capacitance of the microelectric cannot be exactly neutralized by a pure negative capacity. Despite these limitations, neutralization is the most applicable of the methods discussed, and highly successful neutralized input capacity amplifiers have been designed and used in several laboratories. Vacuum tube and transistorized versions of neutralized amplifiers are briefly described."
"Preliminary experiments have indicated that it is feasible to construct low-level dc differential amplifiers using inexpensive hearing aid transistors. The noise level of such amplifiers was found to be roughly proportional to source impedance; it is less than that of a vacuum tube circuit for sources having an impedance of less than 10,000 ohms. A physiological amplifier having a voltage gain of 10,000 was designed on the basis of these experiments. Several of these units have been constructed which show a bandwidth of about 60 kc and a noise level of about 2 μv rms with a 50-ohm input. For measuring nerve potentials a pair of electrometer tubes connected as cathode followers are used as an input probe. With this circuit arrangement the noise level is the order of 15 μv."
"This electrometer pulls itself up by both boot straps."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"An all-electronic method is described whereby minute electrical responses in brain recordings can be measured reliably even in the presence of large noise-to-signal ratios. The signal in this instance is a discrete response to a controlled stimulus. The ``noise'' is not white noise in this case, but the normal rhythmic activity of the electroencephalogram (EEG) which is randomly related to the signal. The responses are usually invisible in the EEG recording but they can be detected by means of averaging and storing techniques. The system makes use of gated integrators and floating-grid vacuum-tube voltmeters."
"Oximetry is the estimation of per cent oxygen saturation of blood by photometric means. Incident light may be reflected from a vascular bed or cuvette and the reflected light measured, or the transmitted light may be measured to yield the required data. Theoretically, transillumination lends itself to absolute measurement with a two-color system, whereas reflection oximetry requires three colors. The instrumentation described employs two colors along with an alternating light source to allow ac amplification. An analogue computer provides a continuous ratio of the corresponding two currents recorded by an ink-writing milliameter. The over-all response to a step change has a period of less than 0.5 seconds and is considered rapid enough for clinical dye curve studies. There is reason to believe that the deficient long-term stability of the photocells limits function as an absolute oximeter."
"It is the intention of this paper to cover work on the use of electronic amplifiers in conjunction with other instrumentation as supportive devices in cases of partial or complete muscle failure. As indicated it is a continuation of work previously published in these TRANSACTIONS and indicates the trend of further applications of electronic engineering in this field."
"Reported are the results on animals of 520 discharges from capacitors ranging in size from 250 to 3000 micro-microfarads, charged to voltages of 1 to 40 kilovolts. These discharges were sent through the animals at various instants in the heart cycle, and in most cases the current path was from foreleg to hind leg (analogous to the path from hand to foot). The time constant (RC) of the discharges also was varied by inserting resistances in the discharge circuit. None of these discharges produced ventricular fibrillation, cardiac arrest, or any other untoward effect which could be detected by the methods used. While it is impossible to accurately predict the human response to similar electric shocks, it seems probable that the same conclusion applies to adult man."
"To study potentials from several different muscles or parts of the same muscle concurrently so that relative activity could be compared directly, a special apparatus has been developed and tested over the past several years and is reported now for the first time. This apparatus consists essentially of six identical but entirely separate amplifiers, each fitted with a small cathode-ray tube for monitoring. Together with the control unit, they are mounted on the top of a compact metal cabinet. Situated on the floor of the cabinet is the power supply unit next to a light-proof compartment containing six recording cathode-ray tubes. The traces on these tubes are recorded by a 35-mm linagraph camera affixed to the side of the cabinet. This new instrument has been used extensively and with good results in the author's laboratory for a variety of studies on muscle function."
"The procedure for obtaining an artificial heartbeat with the use of multivibrator techniques is described. The chief feature of this design is the use of well-known circuitry to produce, 1) three pulses of variable amplitude and relatively long periods, and 2) variable time delays between the pulses of up to 0.5 second. Also described is the circuit for a cardiac tachometer with two linear scales, the ranges of which are 0 to 75 and 0 to 180 beats per minute, a response time from zero to full scale (10 seconds), and an accuracy of better than 2 per cent."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A completely transistorized radio transmitter and a receiving system are described operating at 104 mc. The weight of the transmitter is under two pounds without the use of miniature parts. Design is for transmission of up to ten channels with bandwidths of 250 and 1000 cps. The channel reported has a carrier frequency of 2100 cps and was tested for EKG recording. Satisfactory calibrated records were obtained while walking and while on treadmill."
"The minimum specimen exposure at television scanning rates required to yield pictures with acceptable signal-to-noise ratio and the best resolution optically attainable is computed for flying-spot, image-orthicon, and vidicon television microscopes for the ultraviolet. This exposure is found to be slightly less for the flying-spot microscope than for the image-orthicon microscope. For microscopes employing experimental ultraviolet-sensitive vidicons with optimal quantum efficiency, the exposure is greater than for the image-orthicon microscope by a factor of 2, and it may be greater by a factor up to 10 for vidicon microscopes with less favorable characteristics. Picture lag is absent in flying-spot microscopes and is not a serious consideration in image-orthicon microscopes, but may limit the permissible motion in the field of an ultraviolet vidicon microscope. On the other hand, the attainable radiance of flying-spot tube screens limits the usefulness of the flying-spot microscope in high-resolution studies, particularly when examination with sharply defined spectral bands is desired. No similar limitation exists for the image-orthicon and vidicon microscopes."
"Obstetricians have expressed a wish for a simple and low-cost apparatus for monitoring the heartbeats of a fetus before and during birth. This paper describes a special type of amplifier that was built to satisfy this requirement. By transposing the low frequencies of the heartbeats to a higher-frequency region, some of the difficulties that would otherwise be encountered are avoided. This makes the device easy to build with noncritical circuits; it should be inexpensive to manufacture."
"In this paper, the authors have derived the equations representing the dynamic response of a human operator in the performance of a particular task. These equations were plotted and compared to the recordings of the actual response and show agreement well within experimental error. Possible applications of this method are suggested in the fields of servomechanisms, medicine, physiology, and psychology."
"This paper gives a brief survey of early and current work in the application of audio-frequency amplifiers, equipped with filters, to the diagnosis of abnormal heart conditions, and for use as teaching aids in medical schools. The possible application of a gating technique, i.e., filtering in time instead of in frequency, is discussed, and a description is given of some circuits which have been used for this purpose. Both filter systems have proved to be useful adjuncts to the stethoscope and, if used with a tape recorder, are valuable teaching aids."
"This paper describes a machine for the application of artificial respiration to infants. The machine will operate automatically as a respiration amplifier when any spontaneous breathing is present, or as a forced respirator when there is no natural breathing. The respiratory cycle is induced by the external application of a negative pressure to the body and all significant variables may be independently controlled."
"The general mathematical theory of measurement of blood flow by dye dilution techniques is discussed. The mathematical procedure for handling the recirculation problem is described, and it is shown that, in general, sampling of concentration at a single point is not sufficient to uniquely determine both the volume and flow in a vascular bed. The more basic problem of synthesizing a mathematical model of the circulation is analyzed. A general probabilistic scheme for handling transport problems of this kind is outlined, and results obtained for exchange of labeled material between the vascular and extravascular fluid compartment are described."
"A machine which solves the general problem of counting randomly placed objects of varying size on a surface is briefly described. It is able to accomplish this task by systematic discard of information. It is essentially a scanning device with a ``memory'' in the form of a quartz ultrasonic delay line. A ``decision-making'' element controls the discard of information and directs the counting action. The counting operation is accomplished in one second."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"Direct-coupled transistor logic circuitry lends itself to systematic design methods and performs remarkably well. Logical design rules are given for use with transistors which meet specifications treated in a companion paper. The implications of the use of silicon transistors are discussed."
"The basic requirement for stability of a direct-coupled transistor logic (dctl) circuit is that a voltage margin exist between the maximum collect-emitter voltage of an ''on'' unit in the system environment and the minimum base-emitter voltage required for a transistor to be sufficiently ''off.'' This margin has been expressed in terms of the fundamental device parameters: commonbase forward and inverse current αN and αI; ohmic body resistances of the emitter, collector, and base regions, γe' and γc' γbIII; collector saturation current, Ico; and the ratio of the value of α in the vicinity of the ''off'' state to its value in the vicinity of the ''on'' state. In addition, the connection of bases in parallel results in a dependence of stability on the magnitude of αI and of γbIII and on the variations of αN, αI, γbIII and ICO among units connected in this manner. Circuit stability requirements have been expressed in terms of these parameters and the effect of their variations is considered. Methods for the specification of acceptance requirements for dctl transistors and the relation of these specifications to logic design rules are discussed."
"The permittivity or dielectric constant of the materials used in capacitors is not actually a constant but is a complex function of frequency and temperature. Consequently, the feedback capacitors used in the integrators of a differential analyzer cannot be considered ideal, but their capacitance must be considered a variable. Methods of representing the complex capacitance are discussed and a model is selected which is conveniently suited to the analysis. Experimental methods of measuring the complex capacitance are described. The phenomenon of dielectric absorption is interpreted in terms of the capacitor model and it is shown that an integrator having such a feedback capacitor will experience a change in effective initial conditions after a solution is started on the computer. It is also shown that when such integrators are used to solve linear differential equations with constant coefficients, the locations of the roots of the characteristic equation are changed slightly; these changes can be evaluated when the properties of the capacitor model are known."
"A dot-circle scheme is proposed which will permit the distinction between binary ``O'' and ``1'' signals when the stored information has been destroyed approximately 90 per cent by refill. This unusual recovery of stored information is accomplished by making proper choices of operating parameters and using discharging effects instead of the charging effects as has been done in the past. Basic relationships are developed from Coulomb's law and the equivalent circuit of the Williams' memory to predict the binary out-put signals. The agreement between these theoretical signals and the actual experimental signals is remarkably good. A 5JP11 cathoderay tube was used in the experimental work."
"Matrix formulation permits the compact analysis of a very general computing scheme based on operational amplifiers. The computer solves an equation in which a computing matrix and an error matrix can be distinguished. Programming a differential equation consists of writing it in an appropriate matrix form. The computing setup is in immediate mutual correspondence with the computing matrix. The error matrix can be written down by inspection."
"Many references are available on the properties and characteristics of ferroelectric materials and their memory application.1-3 The purpose of this paper is to present several scanning systems by which binary information can be stored and recalled from ferroelectric capacitor configurations. The circuitry to be described here was originally designed for testing of ferroelectric elements and employs an ordered or nonrandom scanning pattern. Most of the circuitry presented is, however, adaptable to random access application."
"This article describes a four-quadrant time-division multiplier with an over-all accuracy of better than 0.1 per cent of full scale. The circuit is independent of the transistor characteristics, requires no complicated balancing adjustments, exhibits excellent stability and uses only simple, noncritical circuitry. The maximum output voltage is 10 v when both input voltages are 10 v."
"In previous papers a new technique for performing in a single electronic computing unit all nonlinear mathematical operations in a differential analyzer was described. The field of application of this technique is extended to include the generation of functions of several variables."
"The concept of a functionally complete set is defined and examples are given in the familiar field of 2-valued logic and 2-valued switching circuits. Several functionally complete sets, already Known to investigators in n-valued logic, are discussed, with particular emphasis on applications to the synthesis of n-valued switching circuits. It is noted that much of the switching in a base-n computer will be, in a sense, binary, permitting the use of relatively simple elements in the synthesis. As an example, an n-valued switching matrix is synthesized."
"This paper develops a systematic method for the synthesis of electronic circuits which must realize symmetric Boolean functions. The ``fold-down'' method, originated by Shannon [1], solves the problem nicely for relay circuits. The electronic circuit, however, composed of ``and,'' ``or,'' and ``not'' elements, does not seem to incorporate the feature of symmetry as readily. It is shown that for symmetric functions a minimal-not condition exists, and that this form is a powerful tool for synthesis. The minimality is not actually proven, except for the case of fundamental symmetric functions. As with the minimal-or circuit, a minimal-not circuit does not necessarily imply the most economical realization, and the design procedure should take account of this fact."
"Thermistors which are thermally-sensitive resistors having large negative temperature coefficients of resistance can be aptly used for the gradual application of heater voltage to thermionic tubes, thereby diminishing thermal transients and reducing mechanical failures. Full voltage is first applied to the thermistor and load in series and after temperature equilibrium is reached, the thermistors are shorted out. From a cold start thermistor resistance decreases by a factor of approximately 100 and heater resistance increases by a factor of 5 to 10. By selecting a set of series-connected thermistors to limit the current to a maximum of 120 per cent of the operating value during the voltage application, the initial voltage on the heaters will be less than 5 per cent of rated, and the voltage before shorting out, about 75 per cent of rated. Peak currents occur twice, once while the thermistors are in the circuit and again when the thermistors are shorted out at 90 seconds. One set of thermistors can be used to limit the current satisfactorily over a wide range of loads. The most favorable number of thermistors to connect in series is determined experimentally. Commercially available units in washer form can accommodate heater loads up to 1100 watts."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"Since the publication of a previous paper1 the uses of Thyrite2 in the synthesis of nonlinear transfer functions in analog computing have been greatly expanded. Moreover, new and considerably improved methods of Thyrite selection and matching have been developed. The present paper shows how rational exponents can be represented. Functions of the form y = kxn, with 1/δ ≤ n ≥ 6 are readily obtained. Circuit configurations generating the functions 1 - (2x/π)1.74 and 1 - [2/π(x-π/2)]1.74 which provide excellent approximations to the cosine and sine functions, respectively, are given and an improved quarter-square multiplier using Thyrite squaring is discussed. A study was also made of the physical factors influencing the performance and accuracy of Thyrite and quantitative experimental data regarding these factors are presented."
"Polynomial equations occur quite often in physical and mathematical problems and require an exact solution. Several problems in control engineering, aerodynamics, and many other fields require the formulation and exact solution of algebraic equations of quite a high order. In the past, several mechanical and electrical machines for the determination of the roots of polynomials have been developed, but all of them suffer from the serious disadvantage that they are very expensive and are incapable of high accuracy and rapidity of operation. This paper describes the development, design, and construction of an inexpensive and portable isograph which is capable of locating the roots of a polynomial with fairly high accuracy. This isograph can serve as a valuable aid to large-scale computing machinery, for which the roots of a polynomial must be isolated before further calculations can be performed. It can also serve as a very useful adjunct to other mathematical processes such as complementary solution of differential equations, determination of latent roots of a matrix, and similar other applications. It is hoped that this inexpensive and portable instrument will prove extremely useful in the design of servosystems and in other fields where the problem may be presented as a polynomial and that theoretical studies of engineering problems will be greatly augmented by its use."
"Extremely simple digital computers exploiting the concepts of simulation and micro-programming are described. Logical rather than arithmetic micro-programming operations are employed for generality and greater simplicity. The resulting class of computers can duplicate the behavior of any finite state digital computer except in solution time. Also, design techniques are given for computers employing only multiple-bit time delays."
"The object of this paper is to analyze and to develop design procedures for a resistor-coupled transistor circuit used in the mechanization of logical operations. The basic circuit consists of one transistor and a number of resistors. This circuit performs the OR function followed by the NOT function or the AND function followed by the NOT function. With these compound functions mechanized it is possible to build any logical system. The first requirement for operation of this circuit is that the transistor must be saturated if one or more inputs are low. The second requirement is that the transistor must be cut off if all of the inputs are high. A ``worst case'' analysis is performed for each of these requirements. Three types of solutions are described and discussed: general purpose, intermediate (flexible), and special purpose. The general purpose design uses one standard stage for the mechanization of an entire logical system. The special purpose design is tailored to fit a complete logical system. If any logical change is made, a large part of the circuitry must be redesigned. An intermediate (flexible) design uses different stage designs, having different numbers of inputs and outputs. Procedures are developed for the design of the general purpose system in two ways: hand computation with a slide rule; computation on a small digital computer (Burroughs E101). Procedures are developed for the design of the intermediate flexible system using hand computation."
"In this paper we indicate briefly how the methods of the algebraic solution of Markov chains with constant transition probabilities apply to the analysis of sequential machines. Mealy's model of a sequential machine is assumed. A stochastic matrix is associated with each such machine to provide a starting point for the analysis. ``Closed'' sets of states are then characterized, for example, by the appropriate theorems about Markov chains. A technique is formulated for reducing the connection matrix of any sequential machine to a canonical form."
"The use of digital computers in continuous control systems is discussed. A comparison is made of the two major types of digital machines, namely the GP (general purpose) and the DDA (digital differential analyzer), and characteristic features of each are considered. Certain advantages and limitations of each type are described, together with their indicated areas of application. Methods of processing input data from analog and digital sensing elements are described, as well as means of supplying control signals to output servos."
"Successful inclusion of a digital computer in the real-time control loop of an industrial fluid process plant is dependent on 3 practical steps: 1) the formulation of adequate mathematical models, 2) the development of satisfactory data acquisition techniques, and 3) the proof of sufficient reliability. Examples are taken from the petroleum industry."
"Present day digital computers are too slow for the comprehensive real-time simulation of complex electronic systems such as those involving guided missiles. Computers appearing 2-3 years hence will be sufficiently fast for these applications. There is and will continue to be fertile application fields for analog-digital computer combinations. An existing large-scale (Univac Scientific 1103A-Epsco converter-Electronic Associates) analog-digital system is described. System design and specifications are discussed which relate to real-time speeds, necessary accuracies, digital computer programming, and synchronizing the digital computer with the remaining system components. Techniques for exploiting each computer's advantages are mentioned. Applications in the guided missile field and in other fields are discussed."
"Flexibility, accuracy, elimination of manual skill, and greater work potential result from the addition of digital data processing to machine-tool control. Several special-purpose digital computers for machine-tool control have now been developed. These perform only simple computational tasks. The more sophisticated tasks require the addition of general-purpose large-scale computers. This combination, while only partially explored, appears very promising. It should lead not only to improvements in translating a part design into the finished piece, but should ultimately assist in the design procedure."
"The Lewis Flight Propulsion Laboratory of the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics is assigned the primary task of research into the basic problems of the design and operation of aircraft power plants. Since World War II this has primarily meant research in the field of jet and turbine engines. Although these engine types are simple in concept, it was quickly realized that they could not be developed adequately by research on small-scale models. It has been necessary to build large facilities in which research could be conducted under conditions approximating those expected of actual flight. With new facilities under construction or being planned, it became clear in the late 1940's that only some form of mechanization could cope with the growing problem of data-processing. The resulting studies led to a plan in early 1950 for the construction of a data-recording system aimed toward digital data-processing techniques. In January, 1952, the first model of an automatic digital pressure recorder with mechanized, manually-controlled computing was put into operation. From this point the system gradually evolved in concept and in working equipment to its present form in which a central editing and computing station serves a number of remote research facilities. The operation of data collecting and input editing is described in considerable detail by Ryskamp.1 It is sufficient at this time to give a brief description of the system."
"This paper presents a selection of current bibliographic references in the field of the logical design of machines. Selections were made with the objective of being useful and stimulatory to the wide variety of scientific persons who have some interest in this subject. An essential feature of the report is the extensive index of significant title words. Each indexed word is given in the complete context of the title in which it occurs."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"A design philosophy for transistorized analog computing amplifiers is presented. A design procedure for a summing amplifier to drive a specific resolver in a 400 cps system is described, and the performance of the resulting circuit is evaluated. Whereas experience with vacuum tube amplifiers in similar applications has led to the conclusion that the amplifier input impedance should be as large as possible, the inverse is true in the transistor amplifier."
"Several corrections are given to a recent tabulation of two-terminal contact networks realizing the switching functions of four variables. Nineteen new networks which are more economical in contacts than those previously tabulated are also presented and certain four-variable functions possessing a useful complementary relationship are listed. In conclusion this paper indicates an area where further work on four-variable contact network synthesis is needed."
"The number of integrators in an analog-computer setup should be equal to the order of the differential equation describing the system. This paper presents a new procedure for tracing the loop currents which results in one-to-one correspondence between the number of integrators in the stimulation setup and the count of independent energy-storing elements in the network, i.e., the degree of the system's characteristic equation. The generality of the procedure proves that it is always possible to trace the loop currents in such a way that excess integrators are avoided. The loop-analysis and the branch-variables-analysis approaches are discussed and examples given."
"The usual definition given for the parity check is unwieldy and not particularly suited for the analysis or the study of the arithmetic properties of parity checking. The definition of parity by means of congruences provides a convenient mathematical basis for the concepts of the parity check. In this paper congruence notation is used to generalize the concepts of parity to include nonbase two number systems. Consideration is given to the cases where the check base is equal to the number base, and where it is not equal to the number base. The arithmetic properties of each case are considered by means of congruences."
"Sine wave carrier excited magnetic amplifiers have been investigated to determine if the figure of merit can be improved through the use of feedback techniques. It is shown that the power gain can be made unlimited but that a finite rise time is preserved. Hence the figure of merit as ordinarily defined becomes meaningless. It is shown, however, that voltage gain divided by rise time remains nearly constant under feedback and is a more suitably defined figure of merit."
"This paper describes a class of division methods best suited for use in digital computers with facilities for floating point arithmetic. The division methods may be contrasted with conventional division procedures by considering the nature of each quotient digit as generated during the division process. In restoring division, each quotient digit has one of the values 0,1, . . . , r -1, for an arbitrary integer radix r. In nonrestoring division, each quotient digit has one of the values -(r-1),. . ., -1, +1, . . ., +(r-1). For the division methods described here, each quotient digit has one of the values -n, -(n-1), . . ., -1, 0, 1, . . . n-1, n, where n is an integer such that ½(r-1)≤n≤r-1. A method for serial conversion of the quotient digits to conventional (restoring) form is given. Examples of new division procedures for radix 4 and radix 10 are given."
"A new method for the logical design of magnetic core pulse-switching circuits is presented. This method has features which make it excellent for use in standard packages. These features are the absence of spurious noise signals at the output; the fact that outputs are independent of the order of arrival of input pulses; the fact that interchanging components does not affect circuit behavior; and the fact that moderate changes in clock pulse amplitude and duration do not cause false operation. Furthermore, the number of components required by this system compares favorably with the numbers required by other systems. A computing system can be built by properly interconnecting a few different types of such packages. The new system uses advance current drive but performs the logical operations with both forward and backward windings in an output network. The use of both types of windings permits a reduction in the total number of cores required. Tests performed on actual circuits yielded very encouraging results. The circuits operated as predicted, and the performance was most satisfactory."
"The magnetic properties of 4-79 Permalloy cores, which have been annealed at different temperatures, are discussed. Cores annealed at relatively low temperatures are characterized by high coercivity, slower switching, insensitivity to strain, magnetization difficult to rotate, and insensitivity to an applied transverse field. Some cores exhibit a preference to one remanent state over the opposite state."
"Formal procedures for the analysis and synthesis of two-terminal combinational bilateral switching networks are presented. A bilateral switching network is one which contains only elements having the same switching transmission characteristic in both directions. Following the definitions for the terminology and notation, where some new terms are introduced, the definitions for a series-parallel network, a bridge element, and a bridge network are given. A condition, called the bridge condition, to test a given transmission function for possible bridge network realizations is presented. A stepwise decomposition procedure is developed which may be used for the analysis and synthesis of the series and parallel parts of the network. The steps are described both with linear graphs and connection matrices. The bridge condition partially formalizes bridge network synthesis. Redundant variables also are considered as an aid to network synthesis. Under certain conditions, the synthesis yields network realizations with the fewest possible number of elements."
"A design procedure is developed for a new transistor pulse generator circuit suitable for use as a building block in a digital system. The circuit produces a pulse whose shape is relatively independent of variations in transistor parameters and load current. Pulse durations in the range 0.5 microsecond to 20 microseconds and load currents of several hundred milliamperes may be obtained."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"A logical design using magnetic core elements which does not have the usual carry time limitations is described. The synthesis uses a truth-table technique."
"The usual floating point arithmetic makes error analysis difficult. This paper describes an alternative system which offers a means of analyzing floating point calculations more effectively and which also possesses certain advantages from an equipment standpoint."
"The problem of economical synthesis of circuits for digital computers leads to the problem of finding Boolean expressions of minimal length equivalent to a Boolean expression f. Previous authors restricted themselves to ``sum of products'' expressions; dualizing this gives ``products of sums.'' The next more efficient step is to find minimal ``sums of products of sums'' expressions. In this paper, the basic concepts are formulated in Part I, and general theorems are given in Part II. In Part III, all the distinct minimal ``sum of products of sums'' expressions are obtained in case the cell complex of f consists of two isolated points. For the case of three isolated points partial results have been obtained which will be published in a later communication."
"When a character printed in magnetic ink passes beneath a magnetic reading head it generates a waveform. A method is described here to determine this waveform from the geometry of the printed character. The character shape is divided into elementary vertical units and the height of these units is then tabulated. A single set of experimental data is obtained in the laboratory by passing a magnetically printed bar beneath the same reading head which will be used to read the characters. Formulas are derived in this paper for combining the geometrical data obtained from the character with the experimental data obtained from the laboratory run with the head. A method is then described for programing a high-speed digital computer to derive the waveforms. The discussion explains why these waveforms are often superior to what might be obtained in an actual laboratory run of the printed characters."
"A definition is provided for the term ``general purpose computer'' (gpc) which is compatible with usage and is analogous to, but distinct from, Turing's definition of a ``universal computer.'' A gpc is presented in functional and logical design which seems to approximate the minimum complexity consistent with this definition. No specific definition of complexity nor a bound on required complexity is presented."
"An iterative network is a combinational switching circuit which consists of a series of identical \"cells\" or sub-networks; for example, the stages of a parallel binary adder. A formal design method for iterative networks is presented. This is similar to the flow table technique for designing sequlential circuits."
"Solubility conditions for a set of Boolean equations are established, first with respect to one variable, then with respect to all variables. By consideration of relations between minimal terms, a simple matrix form is deduced for Boolean equations. Using finite group theory and the properties of the characteristic equation of the matrix, a classification is introduced for Boolean mappings and their iterations, to which corresponds a classification of sequential machines."
"Mealy's model of a sequential machine is assumed and a relation of ``compatibility'' of states is introduced to further the analysis of such machines. In the event that input restrictions exist it is often possible to effect combinations of states under this relation in addition to those permitted under equivalence of states, a relation previously studied. Compatibility of states is analyzed by an iterative technique, rigorously established, which makes it possible to determine readily connection matrices of simpler ``compatible'' machines."
"When solving differential equations using analog computers, there are two causes of errors: one results from the integrators and the other results from the coefficient setting elements. The former is independent of the order of the differential equation if the integrating time constants are all equal, while the latter is dependent on the setup procedure. The amount of the error from the coefficient setting elements is comparatively small in the operating frequency range from ω≤rad/sec. Therefore, theoretical analysis considering errors due to the integrators only is quite sufficient. However, higher accuracy is required in ω = 10 to 100 rad/sec (for example in flight simulators) and consequently the error caused by the coefficient setting elements has become impossible to neglect. The authors have succeeded in formulating a generalized and practical equation developed from conventional formulas."
"Simple, high-speed devices to convert binary, binary coded octal, or Gray code numbers to binary coded decimal numbers or vice versa is described. Circuitry required is four shift register stages per decimal digit plus one 30-diode network per decimal digit. In simple form the conversion requires two operations per binary bit but is theoretically capable of working at one operation per bit."
"Shift registers using magnetic cores have been conventionally designed with diodes to provide isolation between stages. It is possible to use transfluxors in a two-core-per-bit fashion so as to provide isolation between stages by magnetic means rather than with diodes. A design procedure for doing so is discussed."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A novel direct-readout printed-circuit commutator has been incorporated in the design of a shaft-to-digital converter system for analog-to-digital data conversion. The design avoids the use of supplementary coding or additional translation circuitry required to operate other shaft-to-digital converters. Methods are described for ensuring logical progressions of numerical data despite gearing errors and the analog nature of the input-shaft position. Some applications of the commutator are discussed."
"An important factor in growing crystals from the melt is an understanding of the phase relationships for systems involving the necessary elements. This investigation deals with the determination and interpretation of these relationships in the ferrite region of the system Mn-Fe-O and points out the conditions necessary to grow crystals along the Mn3O4-Fe3O4 join."
"In previous papers, general expressions for the linear electronic transport constants of solids were obtained in terms of a conjugate function ψ† related, by a linear inhomogeneous integral equation, to the function (of electron state) ψ measured by the “flux.” It is now shown that τψ†=∫0∞ψ|t) dt, where the integrand is the expectation of ψ for an electron which at time t earlier was in the specified state (of which ψ† is a function) and 1/τ is the collision frequency. In particular, the vector mean free path τv† is: “the limit, after a virtually infinite time, of the mean displacement, in Brownian motion, of the position of an electron initially in the specified state.” If there is a force (e.g. that due to a magnetic field) accelerating the electrons between collisions, then a linear transport constant is the same functional of an “extended conjugate” ψ† as it is of ψ† in the absence of the force. It is shown that τψ†e is obtained (instead of τψ† ) when the integrand in the integral above is replaced by the “expectation after time t ” as modified by the accelerations between collisions. The relation of the present formalism to the Shockley-Chambers theory is discussed."
"A matrix-switch winding pattern has been developed which allows the power from several pulse generators to be combined into a single high-power pulse to drive a computer core memory. This pulse may be directed into one of a group of outputs. The method of operation, including the logical basis for changes in number of outputs, is described. The device is suitable for the X-Y drivers of a transistor-driven core memory because one switch allows a group of fast, low-power transistors to deliver a large drive pulse to one drive line on one side of the memory. A 16-output load-sharing matrix switch has been used in the X-Y drive system for a 2-µsec memory."
"Results of measurements of the dielectric constant, dielectric nonlinearity and spontaneous polarization of tri-glycine sulfate are given. These data demonstrate clearly that this material exhibits a second-order ferroelectric transition. The properties discussed are described in terms of the usual expansion of the free energy in even powers of the polarization F(P,T)=F(O,T)+A(T-T0)P2+BP4+CP6 , where A,T0,B and C are constants and T and P are the temperature and polarization, respectively. From the various data taken it is found that A=1.96×10−3 (°C)−1, T0=49.8°C,B=2.0×10−10 (esu/cm2)-2 and C=8.4×10−19 (esu/cm2)−4. From these results the nonlinearity of the dielectric constant above the Curie point is calculated at various temperatures."
"All known subroutines for Arcsine are based on the relation Arcsin N = Arctan [N/(1−N 2)½]. Therefore, Arcsine is not computed as such but as an Arctangent. To avoid the loss of machine time caused by the computation of N/(1−N 2)½, a direct computation of Arcsine is proposed. A subroutine yielding the first six correct significant digits in only five multiplications and divisions is described in detail to illustrate the new method's rapidity. The same number of five operations is necessary to compute, knowing N, the number N/(1−N 2)½."
"Full binary pulse addition may be performed using only two negative-resistance diodes. Amplified Sum and Carry outputs can be provided which are virtually in coincidence with the input signals. A full adder is described, employing Reeves-Cooke positive-gap diodes which operate with pulses of 20-millimicrosecond duration."
"Analysis of the research and development process has suggested improved techniques for estimating the anticipated effort requirements for engineering projects. Logistic growth curves have been fitted to the time distribution of cumulative man-hours, and an effort-distribution array permits the extraction of meaningful information from historical cost records. These provide a consistent basis for adjusting current project schedules and making further estimates."
"Recent measurements of the thermal conductivity of semiconductors have disclosed that, for PbTe,1 InSb,2, 3, 4 Bi2 Te3,5, 6 and Germanium,1, 7, 8 among others, an anomalous component, rapidly increasing with temperature, appears at the higher temperatures. Such an effect might be accounted for by the predicted bipolar contribution10–16 to thermal conductivity; but there is only limited agreement between the theoretical formula for the latter and the experimental results so far available.9 It appears, however, that the disagreements are such that the experimental values are in general the higher, and therefore consistent with the possibility of additional “anomalous” thermal conduction by other mechanisms, such as transport of energy by excitons."
"Detailed analysis of the trapped-flux memory cell1 and other superconducting film devices will depend on a complete description of the magnetic field configurations under given operating conditions. This note describes a sensitive, high-resolution apparatus which uses a conical vapor-deposited probe for plotting the magnetic field distributions of superconducting films. The use of highresolution bismuth-wire probes has been reported by Meshkovsky and Shalnikov."
"Information processes and information processing systems are the principal concerns of investigators in many fields, including electrical engineering, neurophysiology, psychology, linguistics, genetics and mathematics. Studies in each of these fields contribute to understanding in the others, and each has a need for mathematical models and mathematical methods for describing and analyzing these processes. Studies of electrical communication and computational systems have provided the mathematical tools and understanding which are useful to the other fields. The related interests of this diverse group of scientists are examined and the activities of several groups in the Communication Sciences Center at M.I.T. are described."
"The intent of this paper is to relate scientific communication to its historical and cultural background. Both communication and science are taken here as somewhat comprehensive terms, including personal, direct contacts as well as documentary communication."
"Numerous suggestions are presented for helping men to learn and retrieve scientific information, with or without artificial aids."
"In certain communication systems where information is to be transmitted from one point to another, additional side information is available at the transmitting point. This side information relates to the state of the transmission channel and can be used to aid in the coding and transmission of information. In this paper a type of channel with side information is studied and its capacity determined."
"Machines which automatically recognize patterns from a stream of acoustic events, for example a spoken command, would have great utility in both communications and data processing. This paper reviews two applications of an elementary recognizer to the problem of actuating certain logical functions, and indicates how more ambitious recognizers might be utilized. In this regard, the automatic measurement of a talker's voice pitch and voicing dynamics appears fundamental to speech analysis, and hence to many recognition schemes. Visual inspection of spectral data taken from different speakers supports this contention. Segmentation of speech into discrete units suitable for recognition, including the possibility of overlapping elements, is discussed. There is reason to expect that such segments will span several elementary speech sounds (phonemes). To illustrate this approach, a set of rules is presented for associating visual spectral displays (sound spectrograms) with the perception evoked by the corresponding utterances. These rules are specifically tailored for a limited vocabulary consisting of ten spoken numbers, and were validated by naive subjects who used them to identify the utterances of 33 people. In a further experiment, spectrograms of the same material from 14 talkers were simplified by reducing them to binary elements. It was found that master patterns for each number, compiled from the ensemble of talkers, could identify the utterances with over 99% success. These results emphasize a “diversity” approach to speech recognition which operates on relations between gross spectral features and does not depend exclusively on any one property."
"Large memories provide automatic reference to millions of words of machine-readable coded information or to millions of images of document pages. Higher densities of storage will make possible low-cost memories of billions of words with access to any part in a few seconds or complete searches in minutes. These memories will serve as indexes to the deluge of technical literature when the problems of input and of the automatic generation of classification information are solved. Document files will make the indexed literature rapidly available to the searcher. However, memory capacity is currently well ahead of our ability to use it, and much work remains in this area. Machine translation of languages and recognition of spoken information are two other areas which will require fast, large memories."
"An automatic system is being developed to disseminate information to the various sections of any industrial, scientific or government organization. This intelligence system will utilize data-processing machines for auto-abstracting and auto-encoding of documents and for creating interest profiles for each of the “action points” in an organization. Both incoming and internally generated documents are automatically abstracted, characterized by a word pattern, and sent automatically to appropriate action points. This paper shows the flexibility of such a system in identifying known information, in finding who needs to know it and in disseminating it efficiently either in abstract form or as a complete document."
"This paper traces the development of digital computer programs that play chess. The work of Shannon, Turing, the Los Alamos group, Bernstein, and the authors is treated in turn. The efforts to program chess provide an indication of current progress in understanding and constructing complex and intelligent mechanisms."
"As one step in the study of intelligent behavior in machines, the authors consider the particular case of a machine that can prove theorems in elementary Euclidean plane geometry. The device uses no advanced decision algorithm, but relies rather on rudimentary mathematics and “ingenuity” in the manner, for example, of a clever high-school student. This paper discusses heuristic methods and learning machines and introduces the concept of a theory machine as an extension of a theorem-proving machine."
"The behavior of a system consisting of a preliminary coder, an unreliable computer, and a decoder is investigated. Coding input blocks of k binary digits into output blocks of n>k binary digits, it is shown that a simple combinational computer which can take the and or or of k or more input blocks can only be made arbitrarily reliable by making n/k arbitrarily large, so that the capacity for computation, in an information theory coding sense, is zero. Incomplete results for a single and or or circuit give the same result if the output gives no information about the inputs except for the information about their and or or; if this is not demanded, then for n>2k, reliable computation through noisy computing circuits is possible, but the computing is done in the decoder."
"Machine techniques for reducing technical documents to their essential discriminating indices are investigated. Human scanning patterns in selecting “topic sentences” and phrases composed of nouns and modifiers were simulated by computer program. The amount of condensation resulting from each method and the relative uniformity in indices are examined. It is shown that the coordinated index provided by the phrase is the more meaningful and discriminating."
"Machines would be more useful if they could learn to perform tasks for which they were not given precise methods. Difficulties that attend giving a machine this ability are discussed. It is proposed that the program of a stored-program computer be gradually improved by a learning procedure which tries many programs and chooses, from the instructions that may occupy a given location, the one most often associated with a successful result. An experimental test of this principle is described in detail. Preliminary results, which show limited success, are reported and interpreted. Further results and conclusions will appear in the second part of the paper."
"This paper illustrates the application of sampled-data theory to the synthesis of a feedback control system using forward-path digital compensation to achieve high accuracy and fast response. It also presents a detailed description of the design and operation of a transistor system prototype. Developed for the specific purpose of controlling the position of an instantaneous portion of a cathode-ray-tube trace, the system has a number of unusual characteristics such as transport lag, digital integration, and numerous sampling rates. The practical manner in which these characteristics are implemented and the mathematical techniques used for system analysis should prove applicable to a wide variety of control-system problems."
"A switch for selecting one out of 100 magnetic recording heads for reading or writing is described. The recording heads are arranged in a 10 by 10 matrix and the switching is accomplished by semiconductor devices. The problem of obtaining suitably fast current rise time during writing is discussed, and the problem of crosstalk from unselected recording heads during reading is analyzed. Experimental results illustrate the performance of the switch."
"Rational (R) and polynomial (P) approximations to Arctan N are studied with the aim of computing this function, to any prescribed accuracy and without unduly increasing the number PC of stored constants, in a minimum number M of multiplications (and divisions for R approximations). The number Dg of first correct significant digits in principle is not bounded. The results corresponding to the values 8, 10, 18 and 20 of this number are as follows; (Table of results is given for M ranging in value from 4 to 10.) If M is increased, subroutines with smaller PC are easily deduced from our general results. Thus, for instance, rational approximations with Dg = 6 can be obtained in three multiplications only, if PC = 19 (combination m* = 3, q = 10); but the same accuracy Dg = 6 characterizes also the cases M = 4 with PC = 11 and M = 5 with PC = 7 (combinations m* = 4, q = 6 and m = 5, q = 4). If polynomial approximations are used, Dg = 6 is obtained for M = 5, PC = 7, but also for M = 4 and PC = 11. No subroutines with a stored table of values of Arctan x are considered."
"The four-pole parameters of a group of similar pnp alloy junction transistors were measured in the frequency range from 0.5 to 5 mc and from room temperature down to that of liquid nitrogen. The measured parameters are translated into simple electrical networks for application in these frequency and temperature ranges."
"A novel approach to computer programming and control, used in the IBM 610 computer, allows the solution of complex problems by an operator whose only previous experience with computing has been the desk calculator. The machine's command structure is designed so that the operator can at all times communicate with the computer by a series of short sentence-type instructions closely resembling the steps of manual arithmetic solution. A type of floating-decimal operation called the “auto-point” mode permits entry of data into storage locations with automatic positioning of the decimal point, without elaborate programming. The decimal point is automatically re-positioned during subsequent computation."
"Design concepts are established for several high-resolution magnetic recording structures, and their application demonstrated. The conventional ring head is treated and two new devices are described. A probe-type unit is discussed which shows promise in high-density vertical magnetic recording. A wire-grid array is also advanced to outline a unique conceptual approach to the achievement of higher resolution."
"A program for the solution of a problem by a data-processing system constitutes a conceptual link between the problem and the machine. It is proposed that both problems and machine organization be studied in terms of programs. A data-processing system may for this purpose be considered a collection of units such as arithmetic units and stores of different types and characteristics. A standard representation of programs is proposed for studying the organization of systems composed of processing units and stores. This approach may lead to more efficient and systematic design of data-processing systems as well as to improved programming methods for existing machines."
"The statistical mechanics of the impurity electron states for a semiconductor with a low density of donors, and a small amount of acceptor compensation, is analyzed. Expressions are obtained for the number of dissociated donor ion states according to the Mott model, and for the effects of multiple trapping, and of dispersion of the trapping energies, on this number. An expression for the thermoelectric power according to the Mott model is obtained. If a small proportion of “minority” donors, of a different chemical species with a smaller electron binding energy than the majority donors, were added to the impurity content they should act as additional traps for donor ion states: The statistical mechanics of this system is analyzed."
"In computer magnetic tape systems, a primary factor in character rate is recording density. Pulse time displacement places a direct limit on the maximum bit density which may be used in parallel NRZI recording systems in which recovery of the information on readback depends on correct synchronism of all tracks. Measurement techniques for evaluation and analysis of pulse time displacement are described. A sawtooth oscilloscope display is particularly useful for observing time displacement as a function of time. The various components of time displacement and their causes, such as skew and pulse crowding, and methods used to reduce them are discussed. This study led to the adoption of a recording density exceeding 500 bits per inch for the IBM 729-III Magnetic Tape Unit."
"Physical devices used for switching have finite probabilities of failure. Circuits which make use of redundancy to achieve resultant reliabilities greater than that of their elements have been proposed and have been analyzed for the case of intermittent failures. The present paper extends certain of these results to the case of permanent failures of the elements, assuming that the reliability of these elements is known. It is shown that, for operating periods which are short compared to the mean time to failure of the elements, a substantial increase in reliability can be obtained by such redundancy."
"Improvement in computing machine reliability through redundancy is studied as a function of the level at which the redundancy is applied. The reliability achieved by redundancy of complete, independent machines is compared to that achieved by redundancy of smaller units."
"Excerpts of technical papers and magazine articles that serve the purposes of conventional abstracts have been created entirely by automatic means. In the exploratory research described, the complete text of an article in machine-readable form is scanned by an IBM 704 data-processing machine and analyzed in accordance with a standard program. Statistical information derived from word frequency and distribution is used by the machine to compute a relative measure of significance, first for individual words and then for sentences. Sentences scoring highest in significance are extracted and printed out to become the “auto-abstract.\""
"It is widely known that a computer adder can be checked by a completely independent circuit using check symbols that are residues of the numbers modulo some base. This paper describes such a residue checking system and shows, moreover, that independent adding and checking circuits are possible only with systems of this type. The discussion includes a method of handling residue-class check symbols when overflow occurs."
"The matrix eigenvalue problem, so important in physics, chemistry and engineering, is straightforward in principle. In practice, considerations of numerical accuracy and speed put a severe restriction on the class and size of solvable matrices. Modern digital computers necessarily play a vital role in the solution for large matrices."
"IN INDUSTRY in general, and highly automated industries in particular, there are many applications which require the use of variable-speed electric motor drives. The combination of a phase-controlled rectifier with one or more d-c shunt motors provides a drive which is flexible, highly responsive, and low in weight and cost."
"THE POWER FACTOR of an electric apparatus is a means of relating kilowatts to apparent power or kilovolt-amperes. With sinusoidal currents, its value permits determination of reactive power, which is a factor in defining transmission losses, regulation, and generator excitation. The effect of reactive power is often reflected in added user charges for low power factor. These charges usually justify the cost of improving power factor."
"A simply constructed device, combining the benefits of static switching and static power modulation, which may be employed to control a standard 3-phase induction motor is described. Inherent reduced voltage starting and reversal without switching of the main supply lines are features of the device. Methods of performance prediction sufficiently accurate for system design requirements are given. Such divergencies as exist between predicted and realized performance for an experimental system consisting of device and standard motor are explained."
"IN RECENT YEARS the analog computer has become available to a large number of design and development engineers. It is not difficult for an engineer to become proficient in the use of the analog computer, but one problem which confronts all who use it is that of scaling: How many volts represent one inch? Three popular scaling methods are: (1) the “actual equation-machine equation method,”1-2 (2) the “per-unit method,” and (3) the “direct analogy method.” The first method is better suited to the mathematician than to the engineer because it deals with equations of the system being studied. The system equations are rewritten in terms of computer voltages and are then called “machine equations.” This tends to cause the engineer to think in terms of the computer rather than to retain a physical picture of the actual equipment he is developing. The other two methods are better in this respect since the thinking tends to be more in terms of actual physical variables. However, when using either of these two methods, many engineers feel that the tie between actual and computer variables is not firm or concrete and that the probability of making a mistake is high enough to introduce uncertainty, especially when integrators or differentiators are involved."
"PRIOR TO 1932, all Navy ships had d-c electric plants for supplying power to electric auxiliaries and lighting systems. As the size of electric plants grew, it was recognized that the adoption of a-c systems for shipboard electric plants offered distinct advantages. At the present time, all of the newer Navy shipboard electric generating plants, except for some small ships, are designed to provide 450 volts alternating current. However, some electric auxiliaries used on board ship require direct current for their operation. Direct current is needed for such applications as degaussing, battery charging, carbon-arc searchlights, generator excitation, circuit breaker and reactor control circuits, cathodic protection, guided-missile servicing, aircraft starting and servicing, etc."
"IN A RECENT PAPER1 the author presented a method of analyzing time-varying sampled-data systems. The essential features of this method are the characterization of components by triangular transmission matrices, and the use of ordinary matrix algebra to evaluate system performance. The purpose of the present paper is to illustrate by a typical problem how this method can be used in practical situations. The problem selected is that of steering a missile toward a target (both of which travel in a common plane) by means of a closed-loop control system. In addition to the intrinsic importance of this problem, the procedure one uses in the matrix analysis of the system is characteristic of a variety of problems. Since the objective here is illustration of a general method rather than detailed investigation of an actual system, simplifying assumptions will be used where convenient. In practice, these assumptions may have to be modified to obtain more precise results."
"The Ritz-Galerkin method is used to develop the equations for finding frequency response curves for a servomechanism with backlash. Response curves are presented for free oscillations of the system for three values of gain. The Ritz-Galerkin method is used to find the hunting frequency and hunting amplitude of such a system. Favorable agreement was found between an experimental check with an electronic analog computer and the calculated results."
"PROTECTION of electric equipment transient disturbances caused by lightning or power-line switching is a subject which is of concern in every industry which was electric equipment. To provide a more complete picture of the considerations involved, the general situation is examined as well as the specialized conditions existing in pipe-line installations and other petroleum industry applications."
"This paper presents two general concepts which are very valuable in analyzing nonlinear servomechanisms. A graphical procedure is introduced by which the frequency response of a nonlinear closed-loop system can be determined from the describing function. The theory is valid for the general describing function which is both amplitude and frequency dependent. Second, an analytical method is developed for evaluating the describing function by Fourier analysis of that type of nonlinear component whose time constant and gain vary with the magnitude of the input signal. As an example of a nonlinear element which meets these specifications the 2-phase servomotor was selected. The closed-loop frequency response was then predicted by the graphical method and verified experimentally."
"THE extensive use of 2-phase induction motors in servo systems has justified giving some attention to their analysis under transient conditions. Stanley1 gives stator and rotor differential equations referred to axes fixed in the stator. Neal,2 Hraba,3 and Brown4 give an experimental investigation of the problem in addition to approximating the nonlinear equations to linear ones with approximate transfer functions in the last two references. Hopkin,5 Koopman,6 and Gilfillan and Kaplan7 give solutions to the problem under certain assumptions and under certain operating conditions."
"This paper presents a description and analysis of an electro-hydraulic speed and load division control for an aircraft constant-speed air-turbine drive for a 400-cps (cycles per second) 60-kva alternator. The development program was undertaken as a product improvement effort over an existing mechanical speed control system. At this writing the development program has been completed and the system is undergoing flight and qualification testing. Representative performance data, in the form of test results, are presented."
"THE AUTHOR has often referred to the solutions of certain classical heat-flow problems as a method of analyzing the more practical heat-flow problems of induction heating. Certainly others have done the same but surprisingly little has been published on the subject. Several difficulties confront the average engineer considering such an approach. In the first place, the mathematics used in the solution of classical heat flow problems is rather formidable and strange to many. Like anything else, the mathematics becomes understandable and appears simple enough when one masters it, but this requires time and effort and is a deterrent to the practicing engineer. An even greater deterrent is the fact that the numerical evaluation of the solution is often tedious or may even involve an arbitrary function which must be integrated for the special case of the problem at hand before numerical evaluation is possible. Two classical heat-flow problems are selected in this paper for evaluation and use in the analysis of induction billet heating. To overcome the difficulties cited, the solutions are reduced to simple formulas and dimensionless curves. The general plan of presentation is 1. to evaluate and extend the classical solutions to obtain working formulas and curves, and 2. to show how these may be used to analyze the relationships involved in induction billet heating. As usual, it will be necessary occasionally to introduce logical approximations in applying the classical solutions."
"THE extensive use of 400-cps (cycle-per-second) power systems in manned military aircraft and the consequent availability of standard 400-cps generation, conversion, and utilization components has caused this frequency to be used in most guided missiles currently in production or under development in the United States. However, as higher missile flight speeds, longer ranges, and greater accelerations are needed to achieve successful guided-missile missions, the adoption of all measures that reduce the weight and volume of the electric power system without impairing reliability and logistics must be considered. The use of a power frequency higher than 400 cps would permit substantial reductions in the weight and volume of most missile electromagnetic components and of the prime energy source. However, the determination of an optimum missile power frequency must include a coordinated study1,2 of the generation, conversion, transmission, and utilization of electric power in missiles."
"THE ERA of high-speed nuclear-propelled aircraft and missiles has brought with it the need for electronic equipment which is both temperature and radiation tolerant. Present temperature and radiation goals as established by the U. S. Air Force for electronic power transformers are 500 C (degrees centigrade) ambient temperature and intense nuclear radiation. These are quite different from the 125 C ambient temperature and no radiation requirements in today's electronic equipment. Major technological advances will have to be made in all phases of electronic design and manufacture to realize these radical environmental changes."
"The missions specified for highperformance military aircraft have continually increased the relay switching requirements. Concurrently, the environmental and operational parameters tax the maximum capability of the state of the art. In addition, these relays must have increased reliability since their purpose is to provide simultaneous multiple functions, and also controls beyond the capability of the human operator."
"The importance of the flux-switch-type inductor alternator as a device to provide electric power from high-shaft-speed turbine-driven sources has provided the need to extend the previous information available on the characteristics of the typical magnetic circuit used in such alternators. The experimental program presented in this paper includes data on the flux distribution in the electromagnet, yoke, stator pole tips, and rotor sections as functions of the field excitation. Standard ballistic galvanometer test procedures were employed to measure flux densities. Leakage patterns associated with the magnetic circuit are described. The relatively high internal impedance of the flux-switch alternator is shown to be the result of multiple flux paths linking the armature."
"CONVENTIONAL instruments presently used for frequency transient measurements in power systems usually consist of a frequency discriminator, a direct-coupled amplifier, and an ink-writing oscillograph. Most frequency discriminators change calibration with changes of signal voltage and harmonic content. They exhibit drift as component parts age. Direct-coupled amplifiers categorically drift. Ink-writing oscillographs do not produce highly accurate records because of limitations in repeatability and readability. More accuracy may be obtained in measuring the magnitudes of frequency transients by using a recently developed system called the “AFTRAMAG” (Accurate Frequency Transient Magnitude) measuring system."
"THE BASIC configuration of the electric generating systems used on aircraft has been changing rapidly in recent years. This change has carried from the wide-speed-range 30-volt d-c systems used on most World War II planes to the constant-frequency 400-cps (cycle per second) a-c systems used on newer aircraft. The advent of constant-frequency requirements on airplanes with variable-speed engines necessitated the development of techniques for supplying constant-speed shaft power to the generators. In some cases this is done with shaft power supplied through variable gear ratio devices and in other cases by fixed-speed air turbines operating on high-pressure air bled from the jet engine compressor. Regardless of the approach used, the electric system designer faces two major problems; overall system weight must be minimized, and the system components must be compatible with the severe environmental conditions associated with high-performance aircraft. Both of these problems promise to become more severe in future aircraft.1"
"MANY large aircraft in use today have constant-frequency electric power systems. The alternators in several of these systems can be operated in parallel and the procedure of connecting machines together electrically usually involves synchronizing and paralleling. Here synchronizing means bringing the machines into proper frequency and phase position, while paralleling is electrically connecting the machine armature circuits through a switching device. The terminal voltages will be held within satisfactory limits by the automatic voltage regulators."
"IN THE PAST electrical designers have been hindered by the fact that internal temperatures in a machine were not known with sufficient accuracy. At best they had to be content with average temperatures estimated from measured coil resistances, for example, but the actual location of hot spots and the temperature distribution in the machine components have been difficult to establish. With the increased availability of high-speed digital computers, it is now possible to determine these temperatures. The purpose of this paper is to illustrate how temperatures can be determined in components of electric machines by an iteration technique that has been successfully programmed for the IBM (International Business Machines Corporation) 650 digital computer."
"A STATIC INVERTER is a static device which is capable of transferring energy from a d-c source to an a-c load. A switching-type inverter is one in which the transfer of energy is performed by devices which behave essentially as switches."
"PROJECTS in the 600 F (degrees Fahrenheit) ambient temperature area have recently assumed major importance in many new aircraft development programs. Significant progress had been made in the design and prototyping of a high-temperature aircraft power-type circuit breaker. The interplay of many ideas in the mechanical, electrical, and materials fields contributed to the effort to solve the difficult and strange design problems which were encountered in this project."
"IT is a purpose of this paper to note the principles underlying the establishment of current-carrying capacities of electric conductors including those for air-borne applications. Another purpose is to determine the concepts regulating the requirements for the protection of the conductors. Further objectives of this presentation comprise the consolidation of conductor performance and conductor protection requirements, the distinction between laboratory and field significance of these data, and the evaluation of the respective product characteristics in comparison with specification requirements."
"Starting from basic theory, this paper shows that induction generators are useful only if the speed range is limited. A number of seemingly ingenious schemes are discussed. The conclusion is that there is either no net output or that the efficiencies of the systems are too low for wide speed range operation to find practical application as constant-frequency aircraft electrical, supplies."
"Present contact-system inductive-circuit test procedure and standard inductors are shown to be inadequate for evaluating the performance of aircraft and missile relays and switches. The need for inductive-circuit testing of contact systems is shown to be critical since contact deterioration is proportional to the energy dissipated in the contact gap which, for inductive circuits, is likely to be many times the energy dissipated in interrupting resistive loads. An inductive test procedure for contact systems and a standard inductor design are proposed which can closely simulate aircraft and missile inductive loads and are calibratable to a practical degree."
"D-c high-potential test voltage that will detect aircraft equipment insulation flaws in a manner equivalent to the 60-cycle rms high-potential test voltage now specified is investigated. The purpose of equipment high-potential tests is stated to be the detection of insulation faults which are shown to be of two categories: 1. holes, cracks, discontinuities, and all faults which result in small-hole air gaps in insulation; and 2. marginally thin insulation, and insulation where the effective thickness has been reduced by the inclusion of foreign matter. A d-c/a-c rms test-voltage ratio of 1.41 is established for the detection of small-hole defects in insulation. Because insulation materials of the type used in aircraft equipment are not available in sufficiently thin thicknesses for breakdown tests at the currently used 1,500-volt 60-cycle rms high-potential test voltage, conclusive data could not be obtained regarding the d-c/a-c high-potential test-voltage ratio necessary to detect marginally thin insulation. A d-c/a-c high-potential test-voltage ratio of 1.6 is tentatively suggested for detecting marginally thin insulation pending further investigation."
"THE DEVELOPMENT program to be described was for the Douglas DC-8 commercial jet airplane and was inaugurated to provide an effective dimmable aircraft fluorescent light system. Prior to this development none was available. The deficiency had made fluorescent lighting for aircraft unattractive, despite its many other advantages. Specifically, the purpose of this program was to design and develop two dimmable systems: one for the cabin which would have a maximum lamp current of 150-ma and an extremely high dimming ratio, and one for the cockpit which would have a maximum lamp current of 200-ma (very high light level) and a moderate dimming ratio."
"THE COMMUTATOR has long been a distinctive and sometimes troublesome feature of d-c generators. It functions as a mechanical rectifier converting the alternating armature voltages to direct voltage for the generator load. It is a well-known fact that the rectifying action of the commutator can be performed by static rectifiers if it is economically feasible to do so. In other words, a d-c generator can be replaced by an a-c machine with its output completely converted to direct current by static rectifiers. This has been done infrequently in the past.1,2 Economics and application requirements have seldom justified the added complexity and increased cost. However, in modern aircraft applications a different situation exists. The increasingly severe environmental requirements placed on generating equipment have made it more and more difficult to obtain the necessary reliability and service life from commutator and brush systems. Higher altitudes have necessitated continual improvements in the ability of brush commutator systems to work under low-humidity, high-temperature conditions. In addition, demands for lighter weight generators have resulted in electrical designs which make satisfactory commutation even more difficult to obtain. The logical result of these trends is the elimination of mechanical commutators in certain air-borne d-c generating systems. This paper reports the development of such a system for a modern, high-performance intercepter aircraft."
"IN ADDITION to the usual electromagnetic and electrical limitations, the performance of electric equipment is dependent on its ability to dissipate its losses and still maintain safe component temperatures. For forced-cooled equipment, such as blast-cooled generators, a continuous flow of coolant is provided to carry away practically all of the heat. Since only one method of heat transfer need be considered, techniques are available which can be used to predict the cooling performance for any set of cooling conditions encountered in aircraft.1 For self-cooled equipment, however, the heat transfer picture is much more complicated. Heat may be dissipated by natural or forced convection to the surrounding air, by radiation to surrounding objects, and by direct conduction to objects with which it comes in contact."
"IT HAS BEEN demonstrated in the past that hydraulic variable-input-speed constant-output-speed transmissions can fail under certain fault conditions. However, occurrences in flight with class A and class B systems have not been, to the authors' knowledge, a major source of trouble. As shown in this paper, the possibility of drive failure is greatly increased in applications of class C systems. In fact, one such failure has reportedly occurred in flight. Hence it is essential to co-ordinate drive and electric system design to obtain the high electric system reliability required in modern aircraft. This paper presents a co-ordinated design on one system and introduces a general method for analysis which is sufficiently accurate to permit system design without extensive redesign of components after model testing has been completed."
"The electrical rating of a blast-cooled aircraft generator depends on the flow rate and the temperature of the cooling air supplied. At the present time the nature of this dependence, for any particular machine, is obtained by correlating measurements of the thermal characteristics of the generator of that machine. Each distinct design requires a separate set of measurements. In this paper a different approach is discussed whereby a digital computer is programmed to compute the rating of any blast-cooled generator, given a complete description of the machine geometry. The advantage of this approach is that such a computer routine may be used to predict rating data for machines in the design stage."
"ACCURATE electrical performance data obtained quickly and early in the preliminary design stages are necessary for aircraft generator design. The nature of the business is such that relatively few machines are designed in a given time, but each must meet a quantity of difficult specification requirements. These engineering requirements provide a natural application of the stored-program digital computer. A performance analysis program was needed which would accurately, and quickly, provide complete data on conventional a-c aircraft generators, as dictated by system requirements. Such a basic program was defined in October 1956, work started in November, flow diagram completed in January, and the program was debugged and running in March 1957. Since that time all generator designs have had a program run. These runs provide complete and accurate information for the designers and users of the machines. All new designs obtain the benefits of such early and detailed data."
"THE PURPOSE of this paper is to present a technique which may be applied to improve the stability of sampled-data feedback control systems having more than one sampler without the use of additional compensating elements, and to illustrate by means of some examples the type of analysis procedure which may be used and the kind of results which may be expected. The technique which is referred to deals with the phasing of samplers in a multiple sampler feedback system to obtain an optimum condition of stability for a given configuration of the system. The technique is principally applicable either to existing systems where it is desired to improve upon a marginally satisfactory degree of stability in the most economical fashion, or to systems where the sampling results from inherent characteristics of the system data measuring or processing elements and is not introduced purposely to utilize the advantages of digital compensation. For the purposes of this paper the discussion will be limited to consideration of multiple sampler feedback systems containing only two samplers operating at the same sampling frequency and it will be assumed that a zero-order hold circuit follows each sampler. The results can be readily extended to systems with more than two samplers. These conditions are not exceedingly restrictive and many practical systems can be conceived which meet them in an engineering sense."
"AFTER the publication by Ralph Kochenburger1,2 of the describing function method of nonlinear servo design, several articles appeared in which the describing functions of common non-linearities were derived.2,3 It is the purpose of this paper to derive the describing function of a combination of two common nonlinearities which is not yet available in the literature. Graphs will be presented in a form that can be used directly in nonlinear feedback system analysis as commonly used."
"The Problem of designing a continuous feedback control system may generally be stated in the following form: Given 1. The characteristics of the plant to be controlled, usually in terms of a transfer function. 2. A set of specifications of the desired characteristics of the over-all system. These specifications may cover such system attributes as transient response, frequency response, steady-state error to particular inputs, certain error constants, etc."
"IN RECENT YEARS the high-speed performance and accuracy demanded of military applications and industrial processes have placed increasing emphasis on the dynamic characteristics of control systems. However, system design is most effective when both steady-state and transient performance specifications can be realized. Ordinarily the designer works from the open-loop to the closed-loop specifications, i.e., trial-and-error modifications are made to the fixed portion of the system until a compensation network is found that eventually leads to an acceptable closed-loop performance. In contrast, another approach, synthesis, proceeds from the closed-loop specifications to an appropriate open-loop system, which upon closure of the feedback path, satisfies the specifications. The methods of Guillemin1 and Aaron2 accomplish this transition, but not without difficulties and complications which arise from the fact that a closed-loop transfer function must be selected that simultaneously: 1. exhibits a pole-zero excess equal to or greater than the excess of the fixed portion of the system, and 2. satisfies a set of closed-loop specifications. Recently, Aseltine3 introduced an inverse-root locus method that graphically determines the open-loop pole locations from a given closed-loop pole-zero configuration. However, none of these methods provides a simple procedure indicating how a closed-loop transfer function can be formulated directly from a detailed set of transient and steady-state specifications. This paper presents a quick and accurate method of synthesizing a linear, continuous, unity-feedback system from a set of specifications that eliminates the foregoing disadvantages. Attention is confined to a type I system that is compensated by an R-C realizable transfer function. To be R-C realizable, the poles of this function must be simple on the negative real axis, the origin and infinity excluded, i.e., its pole-zero excess must be equal to or greater than zero."
"IT IS NOT always possible, and sometimes not desirable, to have a sampleddata feedback-control system in which the samples are taken at uniform time intervals. Aperiodic sampled-data systems may result, for example, when time-shared computers are in the system loop or when data detection or transmission processes are inherently aperiodic (e.g. certain tracking radars)."
"An important problem in the field of multivariable control systems is the design of suitable feedback and series compensation elements which, when added to a given system, result in an over-all system with improved characteristics. This improvement may apply to the behavior of the controlled variables, to the disturbance response of the system, or to both simultaneously."
"A LINEAR control system is possibly the best compromise solution for an environment which includes a more or less random assortment of all kinds of inputs. However, for control systems which work with only one or two well-defined kinds of inputs such as steps and ramps the linear system has serious limitations; mainly: 1. The maximum available torque or force of the servomotor is utilized only throughout a small fraction of the operating cycle, so the efficiency is low and the response inherently slow. 2. The transient response has a theoretically infinite duration, and practically it consists of a long trail of damped oscillations or a long asymptotic tail."
"THE ANALYSIS of nonlinear control systems is not a new problem. In 1918, Barbillion1,2 investigated the use of a hydraulic servomotor in a nonlinear regulating control system. The work of Babillion and Cayere is a modification of the principle given by Leaute' in 1885 in his treatise on the prevention of long period oscillations in machines driven by water turbines. In considering the operation of the servomotor, Leaute' suggested that the servomotor should be advanced to damp out the oscillations in question. In all cases there is more or less considerable oscillation of speed and the regulation is made by successive approximations."
"DIVERSITY is defined by the Statistical Committee of the Edison Electric Institute1 “as that quality or characteristic by which individual maximum demands occur at different times. There is hourly, daily, weekly, monthly, and annual diversity.” Obviously, if there were no diversity between appliances, homes, farms, machines, and manufacturing plants the electrical industry would be required to have considerably more capacity than at present."
"TODAY several hundred thousand homes throughout the country are being heated satisfactorily with electricity and the number is growing quite rapidly. Five years ago the majority of electrically heated homes were concentrated in only a few areas, but now the use of electric heating is spreading into many places where there was none as recent as 2 years ago. A number of factors are responsible for this widening use. Among the more influential of these is the increasing cost of fuels and the tremendous growth of summer air-conditioning loads on electric distribution systems. Many electric utilities are actively promoting heating to offset the summer peaks created by air conditioning."
"VISUAL elements which are fundamental to roadway- lighting need to be clarified. The many varying elements of night visibility form a complex interrelationship which is not generally understood. Further studies and investigations are being carried on to obtain more quantitative data on such visual elements as discomfort glare, veiling glare, and pavement and object reflectance characteristics. Also, practical methods and means for measurements are currently being developed. However, until all this becomes a reality, we must utilize established facts and proven experience."
"AMONG the many problems facing those working with aircraft electric power systems is that of satisfying requirements with respect to voltage and current during fault or unbalance conditions, while limiting the torques imposed on the constant-speed drive. It is the purpose of this paper to present a method for obtaining and depicting the interrelationships which exist among these several quantities such that a basis for evaluation in system design may be achieved. The method should help the system engineer and generator designer to arrive at a compromise, giving the best possible system performance in terms of these performance characteristics and generator weight."
"THE anode and cathode circuit breaker fault currents experienced by mercury-arc rectifier equipment when an arc back occurs have generally been estimated by superposition of the results of greatly simplified calculations of individual a-c and d-c transient states. Such calculations have the merit of being easy and rapid to make. In some instances however the large differences between such estimates and actual tests have indicated a need for a more precise method of predicting the arc-back currents in rectifier circuits. This need has been particularly pressing in the case of circuits having large connected capacity, for as systems get larger the accurate prediction of the magnitude of arc-back currents to be handled becomes increasingly important in the design and selection of components."
"BECAUSE OF their flexibility, portability, and ease of operation, diesel-electric units are particularly well suited as power plants for drillings rigs. The diesel engine has long been recognized for its efficiency, reliability, and economy of operation. In many cases, the diesel engine has all but replaced other types of prime movers."
"DIRECT-CURRENT power is being utilized along with alternating current in many industrial systems. Equipment employing sources of d-c power for electroplating, anodizing, electrochemical, adjustable speed drives, and other industrial applications are being used in increasing quantities. It is not convenient generally to power a combined a-c and d-c power system from two separate sources. Available power must either be rectified or inverted so that all electrical needs for a plant can be handled from the same source. The normal direction of change is from a-c to d-c, and it therefore seems reasonable that rectifiers will have considerable importance in the field of design and application for industrial systems."
"THE semiconductor properties of selenium were discovered by Fritts in 1883. However, it was not until the period between 1939 and 1950 that the selenium rectifier came into its own in the United States as a means for converting relatively large amounts of power from alternating to direct current."
"THE AVAILABILITY of high-current semiconductor rectifying devices, high-grain magnetic amplifiers, transistors, and semiconductor diodes prompted this development. The practical objective of this design was to develop a rectifier of 10-kw rating that could compete with a motor-generator set and its controls for use by the Bell System. Higher efficiency and a reduction in over-all size over rectifiers of earlier design were the major inducements."
"A NOTABLE newcomer in the power rectifier field is the silicon power rectifier cell capable of handling, in some applications, power outputs up to 10,000 watts each. This paper illustrates one method of using silicon power rectifier cells in an equipment with an industrial rating of 300 kw at 250 volts and with overload duty of 125% for 2 hours and 200% for 1 minute. A review of the components, equipment design, and operating performance is presented along with general rules and their application to equipment protection."
"SELENIUM rectifiers were first tested in 1937 for possible application in automotive vehicles. The term “automotive vehicle” includes passenger cars, trucks, buses, off-highway construction equipment, and other self-propelled vehicles."
"SIZE and weight are very important design factors for air-borne electronic equipment. The cost of adding a pound of weight to the electronic equipment is $400 per airplane or more.1 One very effective way to reduce electronic equipment weight is to reduce the weight of the power transformers. Much progress has been made in this direction since World War II. In 1950 17 pounds were saved in one radar set by redesigning the transformers to use improved oriented steel cores. This represented a saving of 40% of the transformer weight of this equipment. Greater savings of space and weight than this are still possible through improved transformer design."
"STEEL STRIP is extremely hard after it has been cold rolled and it must then be softened by annealing. The next production process in the manufacture of tinplate is temper rolling. Temper mills are used to produce the desired surface finish in the strip with acceptable flatness plus the desired mechanical properties. The latter refers mainly to the elimination of a surface defect known as “stretcher-strain” markings which can occur in pressed-steel products. The tendency to this type of defect is directly related to the amount of yield-point elongation. If the steel can be subjected to a small amount of cold working this defect can be eliminated. The effect of various amounts of cold reduction upon the yield-point stress and the stress-strain relationship is shown in Fig. 1. It will be noted that with an extension of as little as 1.0% the yield point can be entirely suppressed."
"SINCE the early days of alternating current, electrical engineers have designed many forms of generating devices to enable them to study the effects of different frequencies on an electric circuit or machine. This study has been a continuing one due to the foreseeable advantages of high-frequency power in certain areas."
"THE APPLICATION of performance criteria in the analysis, and more particularly in the synthesis, of servo systems is a matter of importance, but it is one of considerable difficulty as compared with the application of stability criteria. Although it is generally agreed that concise criteria of performance are desirable, there has been no general agreement as to what criteria should be used. This is not too surprising, for surely there should be many criteria to fit the various requirements of different servos."
"A PRIMARY requirement in many positioning systems is that errors resulting from large input disturbances be reduced to tolerable values as quickly as possible. For a linear system, this requirement could be satisfied by making the ratio of torque to inertia sufficiently large. However, even with the best servomotor design this ratio is limited; therefore, to sufficiently reduce the response time, the designer must frequently contend with saturation in the system components and resulting saturated values of available torque. This paper deals with this saturated type of operation."
"AN EARLIER PAPER1 introduced a method for handling multiple nonlinearities through describing functions, and developed such describing functions for single-stage electrohydraulic control valves. This work is extended in this paper to 2-stage valves of the type shown in Fig. 1. Most of the essential nonlinearities are included in the describing function which is brought to a form similar to that for the single-stage valve.1 Precalculated charts are utilized which help to make reasonable the amount of labor of computing the describing function for a specific valve. An example in the paper illustrates the use of the describing function, and very good agreement with analog computer studies is demonstrated."
"THIS paper, which is an extension of previous work,1,2 presents a collection of charts derived from full instrumentation on an analog computer of the equations of a closed-loop control system controlled by a 2-stage electrohydraulic control valve of the type shown in Fig. 1. The curves included in this paper show variations in the performance of the control system under the effect of variations of the individual linear and nonlinear parameters of the valve itself and of the other parts of the control system. Usually just one parameter was varied at a time while the other linear and nonlinear components had a constant, nominal value. In some cases, however, as many as three parameters were varied simultaneously. The resulting curves are presented in a general normalized way which permits the use of these results in drawing conclusions on valves of different physical dimensions. As a whole these results are believed to promote a better understanding of the performance of valves of this type. The results listed have also been used to test the accuracy of theoretical investigations.3"
"FOR MANY YEARS the \"iron horse\" rode alone having no equal or competition. The railroad conquered the wilderness with a belch of smoke and tied the far places together with ribbons of steel. Legends were woven around it and ballads created. Excesses brought about legal restrictions, but still the railroad prospered."
"WHEN the New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad ordered ten ignitron locomotives and 100 rectifier multiple-unit (MU) cars for use in their electrified territory, the communications engineers of the New Haven Railroad and of the Southern New England Telephone Company (SNET) were concerned with the possible increased levels of noise that might be encountered on their exposed lines."
"CONSIDERABLE progress has been made during the years 1951 through 1956 toward improving the performance and reliability of aircraft generator regulation1 and excitation systems. Much of this progress has been made possible by the use of static magnetic components and metallic dry disk rectifiers combined in such a way that the result is good reliability and accurate, predictable performance."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the title page of this issue of the periodical."
"With the use of the canonical form for a multipole control system as the starting point, the characteristic equation of the system is derived and its roots related to the poles and zeros of the given plant. Conditions are established which must be imposed on the plant to permit the design of a stable system having an arbitrary response. This is followed by the development of a technique which, by imposing constraints on the over-all response, enables the system designer to achieve a stable design even when certain of the plant's poles and zeros lie in an unstable region of the complex frequency plane. The method permits the direct stability design of multipole control systems in a manner similar to that presently possible for the conventional 2-pole systems. It is applicable to continuous-data systems as well as to sampled-data systems."
"BY THE installation of new pipe lines and additional power the gas transmission industry continues to supply a greater percentage of the United States' fuel requirements. The newest type of plant for this service is the gas-turbine-driven direct-connected centrifugal compressor. This paper describes the electrical control for gas-turbine compressor stations on the Texas Eastern-Penn Jersey pipe line. Fig. 1 shows the Perulack station as built for one gas-turbine compressor unit."
"IT IS the purpose of an optimizing control system of the type discussed to adjust some variable of a controlled system for a maximum or minimum. The term optimizing is applied in that the usual application of an optimizing system is to adjust the operation of the controlled system for maximum efficiency, i.e, to optimize its operation."
"BROADLY speaking, there are two types of saturation in a servo system: (1) sustained saturation, and (2) transient saturation. As an example of sustained saturation, the value of a ramp input may exceed the maximum speed of the servomotor when referred to identical basis. The only solution then is a trivial one, changing the servomotor. On the other hand, the transient saturation is by far more important and interesting technologically, and will be the subject of the present study."
"The Laplace transform method has been applied to the analysis of multiple-sampler systems. The method of analysis is based on a contour integral, which is derived from the Laplace transformation, and which mathematically describes the operation of a sampler with finite pulse width. This contour integral referred to as p-transformation in references 1 and 2 is employed for the exact analysis of linear multiple-sampler open-loop systems with finite pulse width. It is shown that by a combination of a few fundamental steps it is possible to treat any open-loop system. These steps have been outlined and simple examples given to demonstrate their application. The technique is general, no restriction being imposed on the number or the periodicity of samplers present. It may be applied to systems with delayed samplers, and periodic samplers with different periods and pulse widths, as well as to systems which include nonperiodic samplers both with respect to period and/or pulse width. In each case the solution is exact and in systems with periodic samplers it can always be expressed in a closed form. The limiting cases are also considered. As a consequence of these, a method is obtained for analysis of open-loop sample-data systems with zero pulse width which include two or more samplers."
"The hydraulic constant-speed drive is an important component of many air-borne electric systems; it is used to convert the varying aircraft engine speed into a constant alternator shaft speed needed to maintain constant system frequency. To study the behavior of electric systems with isolated alternators and other systems with paralleled alternators, it has been necessary to find descriptions of the system components which may be translated into mathematical terms in a formulation convenient for block diagram representation and analog computer simulation. Descriptions of voltage regulators, exciters, alternators, and system load, have been developed and presented in the literature.1‾3 The purpose of this paper is the presentation of information about the hydraulic constant-speed drive and some associated components. The basic drive equations pertain to the ball drive, the axial piston drive, and to the radial piston drive. The equations of the ancillary equipment are pertinent to a particular model."
"THE OPERATION of multiple-unit electric trains in modern high-speed rapid-transit service demands an extremely high degree of equipment reliability. This performance must be achieved with a minimum of time and labor for maintenance. Efforts to achieve these objectives have, in recent years, produced notable advances in the design of both propulsion and control equipment."
"A method is suggested which determines the limiting values of driving-point impedances and transfer functions due to component variations. The method consists of a procedure for obtaining a set of equations, by a conformal mapping technique, which defines the limiting cases of component tolerances."
"INTEGRATION in the forward part of a servomechanism loop has long been known to reduce steady-state errors. With one perfect integrator, there will be no steady-state error following a simple step-function input; with two tandem integrators there will be no steady-state error due to a ramp input, etc. The major drawback to the linear integrator is the time delay involved. Each linear integrator introduces 90 degrees of phase lag at all frequencies, and so it takes only two integrators to make a basically unstable system. A nonlinear integrator is to be described which is superior in this respect to a linear type."
"THIS PAPER is presented upon completion of the first year of alternate operation of a heat pump and heating cables installed in the same residence,1 located within 10 miles of Providence, Rhode Island; see Fig. 1. Both systems are full capacity and only one was in operation at any time. Operation metered for comparison was started on October 6, 1956 and ended on October 6, 1957, another year of records is underway at the present time. This paper is presented to list the findings of the first year and invite observation or criticism from those with experience within this field in other geographical areas."
"THE AVAILABILITY of silicon transistors with low saturation voltages has made possible the development of low-level transistor choppers that are capable of operating over the temperature range of —50 to 150 C (degrees centigrade) with little change in over-all performance. To understand adequately the behavior of silicon transistors in a chopper type of application it is necessary to review the large-signal behavior of junction transistors."
"THE FUNCTION of a railroad is to provide transportation. But transportation to be satisfactory and attractive must be not only safe and dependable but must also be accomplished in a reasonable length of time and within the time shown in time tables. To accomplish this, adequate power must be applied to the trains. However, railroads cannot afford to be extravagant. Locomotives are expensive, and the bigger they are the higher the first cost and the cost of operation in wages, fuel, and maintenance."
"IN all power systems the continuity of power service is dependent upon the characteristics of the devices that are employed in the distribution systems and the proper co-ordination of these devices. It is desirable to have these devices so arranged as to isolate any fault with a minimum disruption of power in the remainder of the power systems. The methods of accomplishing this on navy ships and the limitations of available protective devices were discussed in a previous paper.1 Shipboard power plants have continued to become larger, thus resulting in higher available fault currents. This paper describes these larger systems and discusses the shipboard protective systems and devices employed."
"IN HIS PREVIOUS PAPERS1―3 the first author has given a general analysis of nonlinear coupled circuits and applied the method to the analysis of servomechanisms with nonlinear feedback control. This paper reports the results of a stability study of a third-order servomechanism with multiplicative feedback control. The nonlinearities in the control system, and hence the differential equations representing the system, are introduced by the multiplication of certain quantities, or variables, of the system. For example, if the actuating signal e is multiplied by itself, one obtains e2, which in turn introduces a nonlinear term in the final differential equation representing the feedback control system."
"LARGE industrial plants frequently generate all or a considerable amount of their electric energy requirements. The industrial may be remotely located so that a utility supply is not available. Alternatively, industrial generation may be more economical than power purchased from a utility. This can be the case if the industrial has water power or has low-cost by-product fuel available, or if its process heat requirements are large."
"IN 1952, The Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company experienced a severe economic loss because of a freight train wreck. Investigation disclosed the derailment was caused by a broken axle, the failure starting from a crack in the journal. As a result of this accident, a study was begun by the mechanical department to determine a reliable and economical nondestructive test of railway car axles in service."
"A finite pulsed system is defined as a system containing one or more samplers whose outputs are pulses of finite width and amplitude. In this report a method is presented for the exact analysis of finite pulsed feedback systems. The actual pulse width and the pulse shape are considered in its analytical treatment. The technique is based on the superposition principle, as well as some operational properties of the Laplace transform. It is applicable to a general linear system. The application of this method to systems with periodic samplers leads to a set of simultaneous first-order difference equations with constant coefficients. These equations can be solved for C(z), the z-transform of the output at t = nT. The stability of the system can be determined from the roots of C(z). It is found that the stability conditions are independent of the input but are functions of the pole-zero configurations of both the open- and closed-loop transfer functions, as well as the sampler characteristics. The technique is demonstrated by means of an example in the Appendix. Tables are also included to reduce the algebraic burden. These will be found useful in solution of second- and third-order systems. They can be extended whenever the need arises. The responses of an error pulsed second-order system to a step, ramp, and a sinusoidal input function are also plotted to show the effect of different pulse widths. These indicate that, in each case, as the pulse width h approaches the sampler period the output approaches the equivalent continuous system response. In a similar way it can be shown that as h-0 and the gain of the system is increased inversely as h, the output corresponds to the equivalent sampled-data system."
"IN THE PAST, railway electrification was applied in the United States to overcome limitations or difficulties generally involved with steam locomotive operation. Today, electrification when it is to be applied, must justify itself economically in comparison with diesel electric operation which has already largely superseded steam operation."
"CONTACTS of mechanical rectifiers physically make and break connections between the a-c phase terminals and d-c terminals of the rectifier, but do not contribute to the important phenomena of commutation. Commutating reactors in series with the contacts are used to produce the required conditions during “make” and “break” steps in which the contacts are able to perform their limited functions. The main power circuits may be seen in heavy lines in Fig. 1. Make and break phenomena are equally important, but this paper deals only with break problems, the make problems having been adequately solved in modern rectifiers."
"IN EARLY 1956, representatives of Gibbs & Hill, Inc., approached the American Gas and Electric Service Corporation regarding participation in a study to investigate the feasibility of electrification of the Norfolk and Western Railway between Roanoke, Virginia, and Williamson, West Virginia, (approximately 200 route miles of double track), with particular emphasis on the phase unbalance problem. This problem is the particular concern of Subcommittee No. 5 of Committee No. 13 of the Association of American Railroads. Committee No. 13 has as its objectives 1. to recommend one or more standards for future electrification of railroads in the United States and, 2. to resolve the effect of single-phase unbalance imposed on 3-phase utility systems by single-phase loads from 60-cycle electrified railroads."
"THE RAPID ADVANCE of digital computers and digital technology has resulted in recent years in the development of digital versions of practically every control system component. As a result, mixed systems composed of both digital and analog elements are becoming quite common."
"One method of evaluating the constancy of dynamic response of a system is to determine how sensitive the poles of the system are to variations of the system parameters. If the sensitivity of a pole to one particular parameter is known, then for small variations of the parameter, the total change in the pole position may be easily computed. This method is used to show how dynamic error analysis in linear computer setups may be accomplished in a straightforward manner. The definition is also of some value as a general tool in the analysis of linear feedback systems."
"IN THE PAST FEW YEARS a great deal of interest has developed in the analysis of nonlinear systems. Much of this has been the result of the great strides taken in the field of control systems. However, nonlinearities have a way of appearing in many forms in many different types of systems. In fact, almost all systems when analyzed carefully have some degree of nonlinearity, and the linear representations are only approximations. In this paper some of the techniques that originated in control system work are extended to the analysis of a power system's stability, and in the process some new methods of analyzing nonlinear systems are presented."
"IN A PREVIOUS PAPER,1 the basic theory and a procedure for optimum design of strictly digital systems were presented. In practice, however, strictly digital systems are few in number. Of far greater interest are digitally controlled continuous systems, in which a continuous plant is controlled by intermittently monitored and processed error signals. While only error signals at specific instants are used to control the system, the mean-square error averaged over all times is to be kept at a minimum. This paper develops the basic theory into a design procedure for doing this. The design procedure is no more complicated than that for a strictly digital system."
"Temperature coefficient, output voltage, and speed linearity error of output voltage are indicated in terms of relative changes in tachometer cup impedances when the output winding is essentially unloaded. By replacing the drag cup of a precision drag-cup a-c tachometer with one having a higher resistivity and a lower temperature coefficient of resistance, the following improved characteristics were observed: 1. The output voltage temperature coefficient was reduced to -0.06%/1 C (degree centigrade) 1/4 its former value. 2. Up to synchronous speed, the output voltage speed linearity error was reduced to ±0.05% of its synchronous speed output, 1/12 its former error. And 3 output volts per 1,000 rpm was reduced to 0.8 volt, 2/7 its former value. A simplified basic tachometer performance equation is derived, and curves are presented to show the required change in drag cup parameters to realize a specified performance. Frequency compensation is achieved by an R-L-C network in the tachometer excitation circuit."
"VARIOUS forms of dirt and deposits in the engine and electric equipment of a diesel-electric locomotive are generally considered harmful. The purpose of filtration equipment is to remove as much of the dirt as possible, within economic limits. There is, however, a certain level of cleanliness beyond which it is not feasible to operate."
"THE EVALUATION of dirt costs on diesel-electric locomotives made in this paper is admittedly extremely approximate in nature because of the scarcity of factual data and the many assumptions used in lieu thereof. It divides the locomotive into three main categories: the diesel engine (with cost figures of fair accuracy), and electric apparatus and other apparatus with dirt costs of “order-of-magnitude” approximations only. Dirt costs are estimated on a total national basis, divided between cleaning and repair costs, with further subdivision as avoidable or nonavoidable."
"THE INVENTION of the compressed air brake by George Westinghouse in 1869 was followed rather promptly by investigations of wheel slip and wheel slide. This is reported in the famous Galton Westinghouse Tests of 1878 and 1879.1 Prior to that time, wheel slip or slide was unknown on cars because the hand brakes used did not supply sufficient braking effort. Wheel slip frequently occurred during acceleration on locomotives, but this was very easy to detect due to the fact that the number of driving wheels was relatively few and they were usually connected in such a manner that all would slip in unison. Wheel slide in braking the locomotive was also not unknown since emergency stops were usually made by reversing the drivers of the locomotive and applying steam for compression braking, sometimes to the extent of spinning the drivers backwards."
"TORSIONAL VIBRATION studies of simple mechanical systems are usually handled by methods which, while not difficult, often require the expenditure of considerable time when done by hand. The use of a digital computer shortens the time considerably. One method frequently used is the Holzer table calculations1 resulting in the determination of the natural frequencies of the system. Another method is a matrix solution of the differential equations of the system."
"IN THE EARLY STAGES of the development of railway traction equipment the need for some form of ventilation became evident. This need increased with the continuing demand for increased output. As a result, cooling systems evolved from self- to forced ventilation. Their development was not, however, an unmixed benefit. Any ventilation tends to draw dirt, snow, moisture, and other contaminants into the machine, with harmful results. The undesirable effects may be reduced by design measures aimed at the following: 1. making the components more resistant to damage, 2. preventing the accumulation of foreign matter in critical locations, and 3. cleaning the air before it enters the machines The proper measures to employ in a given instance are determined by design, practical and economic consideration."
"An experimental electrostatic precipitator was specially designed to fit the limited space in a diesel locomotive. Its effectiveness as an engine intake air cleaner and its practicality as a regular component in the locomotive were evaluated after two years of heavy freight service."
"THE SELECTION and preliminary design of a drive system for a unique test facility called a \"rotating arm\" was carried on simultaneously with the structural and mechanical designs. This rotating arm is required for directional-stability and maneuverability studies of high-speed submarines and surface ships. Large-scale models will be towed in circular paths with radii ranging from 12 1/2 feet to 120 feet and at submergence levels of as much as 10 feet. Final detail design of the electric machinery and control circuitry is contingent upon the results of exceedingly painstaking analog computer studies now partially completed. These studies are required of the manufacturer as proof of the adequacy of the machinery and its associated control circuitry for the intended application."
"SINCE the introduction of aircraft carriers to the Fleet of the U. S. Navy their role has continually increased in scope as well as in importance. This has been due chiefly to advances made in aircraft and associated weapons and systems. These advances have had a direct effect on the electric power requirements of the ship service and emergency power system. Fig. 1 shows how ship service generating plants have continually grown, the CV4 in 1930 to the CVA(N) at the present time. The generating capacity of the CVA(N) is ten times greater than that of the CV4. Although this increased power demand has been necessitated by a number of factors such as higher ship's speeds, larger hulls, and more electronic gear, this discussion will cover only certain special power and lighting systems which are considered to be broad enough in scope to be treated individually."
"A measuring system is described which has been developed at the David Taylor Model Basin for use in model and full-scale ship testing. The system utilizes transducers of the differential air-gap type, special designs of which permit measurement of torque or thrust in rotating shafts without the use of slip rings. The system includes instrumentation for direct recording and for visual or automatic digital readout. Accuracies of ±½% or better are obtainable."
"PARAPHRASING GERTRUDE STEIN, a rectifier is a rectifier is a rectifier. The many different service requirements, compounded by many economic factors, all influence the choice of design features available to the manufacturer. To obtain the best rectifier to fill specific requirements, one needs to make a careful evaluation of all the factors involved."
"A REVERSING-MILL DRIVE for rolling-mill service for rolling blooms, slabs, or plates requires application of d-c motors operated under a special load cycle. The motor must be started, accelerated, operated under load, and decelerated many times as the metal which is being rolled is passed back and forth through the rolls. On alternate passes the motor is operated in the reverse direction. The time required for each pass is a few seconds. Typical motor ratings range from about 3,000 hp (horsepower) to about 12,000 hp. The required time for a speed change from base speed in the forward direction to base speed in the reverse direction is about 1 to 2 seconds. Several recent applications of this type have been built with a reversal time of 1 second."
"HISTORICALLY SPEAKING, most aircraft a-c generators in this country have obtained their field excitation from a conventional d-c rotating exciter. This type of exciter is characterized by rotating windings and commutators to produce direct current. Slip rings are used to carry excitation current to the rotating field of the a-c generator."
"THE ADVENT of an aircraft wherein 115-volt alternating voltage is the primary power system offers the lighting engineer an opportunity to exploit a wider field of lighting devices. Previously, aircraft could use alternating voltage only at a sacrifice as it was heavy, expensive, and inefficient. However, it now occupies an advantage over 28-volt direct voltage for lighting use. It is the purpose of this paper to show how lighting research and alternating voltage contribute to the lighting of a modern commerical aircraft."
"AS THE SPEED of aircraft increases, the capability of the accessory power equipment to meet the added requirements imposed by such vehicles must also increase. The important need is for these capabilities to occur in time to be used on the aircraft."
"Winter floods in the willamette river Basin in Western Oregon wreak havoc and destruction from frequent flooding of a highly-populated and developed valley, 150 miles in length. Congress instructed the United States Corps of Engineers (USCE) to study the problem in the Willamette Valley and to make specific recommendations. As a result the Corps has recommended a system of 16 multiple-purpose reservoirs. These reservoirs were to be located on the major tributaries in the basin and would control a total of 3,200 square miles of the 11,200 square miles in the basin. At the present time five of the recommended reservoirs are in operation, two are under construction, and planning is under way on two more."
"The teaching-by-television experiment now being conducted in Hagerstown, Maryland, under the joint auspices of Electronic Industries Association, the Fund for the Advancement of Education, and the Washington County School District has been described in considerable detail.1 The early success of this 5-year experiment, which now encompasses 8 schools, with 6,000 pupils, and which eventually will cover all of Washington County, with its 48 schools and 18,000 pupils, is being watched carefully by all those concerned with improving our educational techniques.2 The plant provided by the Chesapeake and Potomac Bell Telephone Company to link the studio with the schools and the details of the well-equipped studio have been the subjects of separate discussions. This paper will describe the “in-school” or “receiving” portion of the Hagerstown facilities and also will consider possibilities for the future."
"With modern test instruments it is possible to measure the transient response of an impulse-voltage-divider system directly and with good accuracy. The response to a step function, a wave which rises to its steady-state amplitude instantaneously, is particularly easy to determine. This is fortunate since a good approach to understanding the transient response of a complicated system is through study of the step response. The purpose of this paper is threefold: to explain the significance of the step response, to relate the step response to the over-all transient response of the system, and to relate the crest accuracy and step response of a divider system by means of simple accuracy curves. Certain methods which may sometimes be used to improve the response of practical impulse voltage dividers will also be discussed."
"Matrix programming of differential equations for electronic analog computers organizes the equations, thereby minimizing chances for errors; simplifies the scaling of coefficients and variables to suit the characteristics of the available machine; and in many instances permits the reduction of the number of “sign changers.” The matrix method furthermore helps safeguard against the appearance of extraneous terms in the solutions of certain systems of differential equations. These very practical attributes of the matrix method of programming save computing time and equipment."
"The purpose of this paper is to review the present status of terms and definitions in the rapidly expanding magnetic-amplifier field. Since the first progress report of the Magnetic Amplifiers Subcommittee in 19501 much effort has been directed towards preparing a list of terms and definitions to supplement and replace those original definitions which were no longer considered adequate."
"Early in world war ii, the CF series of equipment was developed from commercial telephone carrier equipment for military tactical use. This equipment included the CF-1 (telephone terminal) and CF-3 (telephone repeater). The system was designed for 4-wire operation over the spiral-4 type of cable or radio relay."
"In a simple binary decision feedback system the receiver, as a result of a decision process made on each received message, either accepts and prints the corresponding symbol, or rejects the message as too ambiguous and reports the rejection to the sender. The information in the ambiguous message is discarded, and the sender subsequently repeats the message. This process permits a trade-off between information rate and error probability."
"The constant-amplitude random function generator described in this report resulted from the need for an electronic generator which would combine some of the properties of random noise waveshapes with the known characteristics of periodic, constant-amplitude waves. In this instance, a wave shape was desired which had as a main feature a constant peak-to-peak amplitude, but whose path between peaks was in some way randomly chosen."
"The advantages of the semiconductor diodes in certain applications of d-c power have led to the design and construction of rectifier units of very high current ratings, employing many diodes in parallel on each phase of the rectifier transformer. As with mercury-arc rectifiers with more than one anode connected to each phase, the designer is faced with the problem of current unbalance between parallel elements."
"The purpose of this paper is twofold. It is intended to describe in a summarizing way the specific properties of magnetic amplifiers with regard to instrumentation. It is also particularly concerned with the application of self-balancing magnetic-amplifier techniques in the realm of moving-coil ink recorders and ink oscillographs."
"The bridge principle was first introduced by S. H. Christie in 1833. Sir Charles Wheatstone in 1843 called attention to Christie's work and applied the bridge to the comparison of resistances.1 Since that time, the network has been known as a Wheatstone bridge."
"Past practice in a-c controlled magnetic amplifiers has required a relatively large resistance in series with the control windings to limit the circulating currents caused by the induced emf (electromotive forces) of the control windings. This resistor necessarily wastes signal power, and the realizable gain is much less than could be obtained from a d-c controlled amplifier."
"By the very nature of telephone traffic, any telephone subscriber may wish to be connected to any other subscriber in a continental area or possibly anywhere in the world. This implies switching of connections. It also implies switching these connections at more than one point since it would be economically impracticable to concentrate all switching operations at one point for even a single metropolitan area. With subscriber line switching on a decentralized basis, it naturally follows that switching centers themselves must be switched in order to accomplish economical interconnection of any two telephone subscribers."
"The scatter propagation mechanism has placed a new tool in the hands of the communication engineer. Long spans with great reliability have become feasible, and a supporting technology of high-powered transmitters, huge antennas and multiple receivers is available. In order that scatter circuits be used to full advantage as integral parts of the communication structure, more than determination of acceptable performance standards is required. It is necessary to assess the extent to which these links can be incorporated in existing facilities, and can supplement existing techniques."
"Formulas involving the complete elliptic integrals K, E, and II occur in the calculation of standards of inductance and mutual inductance, in the calculation of the magnetic field components of coils, and in the calculation of the force between coils. Other examples are found in such fields as hydrodynamics, electrostatics, and in certain applications of conformal mapping. The elliptic integrals may appear explicitly in the formulas or the computer may have to evaluate a complicated integral expression which is recognized as elliptic in nature, but in which K, E, and II do not appear. Especial attention will here be paid to the procedure to be adopted for reducing such expressions to the standard forms."
"The operation of a magnetic amplifier is described by the differential equations of its physical system. In any analysis of amplifier operation the circuit equations resulting from the application of Kirchhoff's laws possess terms containing the voltages which are induced electromagnetically in the core windings by changing core flux in accordance with Faraday's law, and terms containing the various currents which flow in the windings. In general, a knowledge of the core properties relating instantaneous values of the rate of change of core flux ϕ' and of net mmf (magnetomotive force) F of the currents in the windings is an essential part of a complete description of the physical system."
"A critical analysis of most practical magnetic amplifiers requires a detailed knowledge of the behavior of the magnetic core. For many amplifiers the analysis may be conveniently separated into two parts: determination of the load voltage or current in terms of the extent of the previous reset of core flux from saturation, and determination of the flux reset in terms of the control or input signal. The output may often be evaluated in terms of the preset flux level with only a meager knowledge of core properties, but to determine the value of the controlling variable needed for a given flux reset or to ascertain the effects and optimum values of circuit parameters requires a more extensive understanding of core behavior. The previously published Part I1 of this paper supplied core-reset functions approximating the relationships between the variables, core flux ϕ, mmf (magnetomotive force) F, and rate of change of flux ϕ', for the process of reset from saturation under certain conditions. In this paper the core-reset functions are contrasted with some other core approximations, several examples of the use of core-reset functions to calculate amplifier performance are shown, and an example of a model theory for the design of analog computers simulating magnetic-amplifier systems is presented."
"In many filter design problems, the minimum permissible suppression of unwanted frequencies is required to be constant over prescribed effective attenuation bands, and at the same time the maximum permissible distortion must be constant over prescribed effective pass bands."
"One of the major problems in the production of magnetic amplifiers is reproducibility. It is essential that reactor cores of magnetic amplifiers be tested and selected prior to winding if good quality control is to be maintained. There have been many approaches to the problem and each company has its own test circuit. Realizing that it would be advantageous to both the core vendors and the users to standardize on core test methods, the Magnetic Amplifier Materials Subcommittee formed the Working Group on Core Matching and Grading to establish standard test circuits. This paper constitutes a summary of the Working Group's activities over a 2-year period and sets forth recommendations for two standard core test circuits for toroidal cores."
"Transistor and saturable-core-transformer oscillators driving small 2-phase induction motors provide, in effect, a d-c motor without a commutator. The inductive, motor load on the oscillators requires that the transistors carry current in both directions and this is aided by shunting the transistors with rectifiers. Simple interconnection of two oscillators provides the 2-phase system. Operation of an experimental drive in the range from 125 to 500 cycles per second resembles behavior of a separately excited d-c motor except that motor shaft rotation is not reversed by reversing the d-c source. The harmonics in the square-wave motor voltages usually have negligible effect."
"With the advent of closer regulation of industrial electric circuits comes the need for high-accuracy limited-range measurement about a mean value, representative of normal circuit conditions. This applies with particular force to voltage and frequency measurement, and there are many instances in which it is equally true in the measurement of current and power."
"In the conventional calculus of finite differences the n sets of k independent variables x(1)α, x(2)α,x(k)α are assumed uniformly spaced along each of the k axes of a rectangular frame. Occasionally nonuniform spacings are also assumed, but only along one dimension."
"This paper describes a d-c push-pull magnetic amplifier which is used to drive a d-c shunt motor. A circuit called the high-efficiency push-pull magnetic amplifier circuit was used successfully to drive a 1/20-horsepower d-c shunt motor.1"
"Response of magnetic amplifiers to signal changes is typically impeded by the necessity to change the average flux linkage of the control winding in order to obtain a different output. This inductive effect requires an elapse of time during which a voltage-time integral, proportional to the required change in average flux linkage, must be applied to the control winding before a new steady-state operating point can be reached."
"The performance of a large portion of electric equipment relies on dependable control amplifiers. Many control systems require fast-responding, compact, and economic amplifiers along with the demand for reliability. Saturable magnetic circuits combined with switching transistors promise good solutions for these control requirements."
"In the past, magnetic-amplifier design papers have been conspicuously absent from the literature. It would appear that most practical design methods are primarily empirical in nature and tend to be dependent on a notebook of past successful designs. At the other extreme are a few theoretical design methods involving such things as analytical approximations of the nonlinearities of the core materials. It is the purpose of this paper to introduce a new, practical design method which is the outgrowth of a study of magnetic amplifier theory using block-diagram techniques1 and which, by its nature, involves an absolute minimum of \"cut and try.\""
"The application of a block-diagram method of analysis for magnetic amplifiers1 to practical design problems has produced a design technique which involves a minimum of cut and try while yielding near-optimum results. An indispensible part of this design method is a tabulation of the physical constants of the available toroidal magnetic cores. In the process of tabulating standard cores, it became clear to the authors that there was absolutely nothing systematic about the manner in which standard core sizes had evolved in the past. Clearly, with one exception,2 little attempt had been made to determine the optimum dimensional ratios or to eliminate overlaps and gaps in the power ratings of the cores. It would appear that magnetic amplifiers were destined to suffer the same fate as vacuum-tube amplifiers as a result of this random development of core sizes. Therefore, an investigation to determine the effect of toroidal-core dimensional ratios on magnetic-amplifier performance was undertaken. Subsequent to the initiation of this investigation the first proposal for standardizing toroidal-core sizes was published by the AIEE Committee on Magnetic Amplifiers.3"
"The purpose of this paper is to describe a “power” method of measuring the useful, torque-producing component of the a-c output voltage from magnetic amplifiers used in applications wherein the output phase angle is important, and wherein the ideal phase angle, with respect to the amplifier's excitation, is either zero degree or 90 degrees. Typical of such applications is a single-phase amplifier used to drive one phase of a 2-phase servo motor."
"Magnetic amplifiers commonly use 50% nickel-iron core materials with oriented crystals. These materials are commercially named Delta-max, Hypernic V, Orthonik, Orthonol, Permenorm, Permeron, etc. They are used successfully in many applications, but frequently when they are used under-excited in magnetic amplifiers (where the power supply voltage is insufficient to drive the core from negative to positive saturation), instability and slow response time occur."
"One objective of the following analysis is to show that in full-wave self-saturating magnetic amplifiers with finite-control circuit impedance, both the dynamic and d-c hysteresis loops should be considered. Another objective is to present the theory of operation in such a manner that a physical picture of the magnetic amplifier operation can be obtained. To aid in this, a particular mode of operation of a demonstration amplifier is studied by a step by step procedure. Finally, equations predicting the amplifiers performance are developed."
"This paper describes a type of instability or triggering observed in the half-wave bridge circuit. The circuit, described in the literature by Lufcy and others, is shown schematically in Fig. 1(A).2-5 An explanation of this triggering is presented based upon a type of reverse-slope magnetic-loop operation not previously described in the magnetic-amplifier literature (see acknowledgment). Figs. 2(A) and (B) are two commonly used models of the dynamic loops of \"square-loop\" magnetic-core materials. The paper shows that neither model predicts the observed triggering but that a loop having the \"reverse slope\" of Fig. 2(C) readily predicts the instability. In Fig. 2(C) the lower minor loop lies to the right of upper minor loop, and lines connecting their centers or flanks would have a negative or reverse slope. The reality of this reverse-slope phenomenon has been determined experimentally, and verifying data are presented. The reader is cautioned that the reverse-slope phenomenon applies only to minor hysteresis loops and not to major loops operating over the entire range from positive to negative saturation. The reader should also be aware that no model of minor- or major-loop operation can be expected to apply to other than a limited range of exciting conditions."
"A procedure based upon probabilistic logics is developed for the analysis and synthesis of reliable asynchronous relay sequential switching circuits, subject to a set of statistical postulates. The reliability of a sequential circuit is measured as proportional to a logarithm of the probability of error for certain state transitions of the circuit involved. The “ces” as a unit of reliability is proposed by the author. An example of the analysis and synthesis procedure is given."
"With the advent of radar scattering from the moon and earth satellites, it is interesting to examine the effect of the interposition of a magneto-ionic medium (the ionosphere) between the observer and the scatterer upon measurements of the scattering matrix. The integrated electron density of the ionosphere is of the order of 1013 electrons per centimeter squared, with diurnal variations of a factor of two. A typical value of the geomagnetic field is Vs gauss. For radar frequencies, the Faraday effect may be considered as a rotation of the plane of polarization without absorption. At 200 megacycles, the rotation is about π each way. It varies as the inverse square of the frequency. For simplicity, the discussion is restricted to back-scattering; no new essential features appear in the general case. The scattering matrix of interest is, of course, that which would be present in the absence of the ionosphere, not that due to the composite system of scatterer plus ionosphere. The complication is that it can be observed only with the effect of the Faraday rotation superimposed."
"This bibliography covers domestic and foreign literature for the years 1951 through 1956. The patents listed cover those issued between January 1951 and July 1956. Earlier magnetic amplifier literature is covered in the bibliography prepared by J. G. Miles.12"
"Electrical and electronic engineers are familiar with the impedance concepts of electric networks. In such networks the parameters of interest are impedances, admittances, currents, voltages, and other related attributes. As early as 1932, Foster1 in a classic paper recognized that the electric network is a special class of a more general class of oriented graphs and geometrical circuits. More recently, Shannon,2 Von Neumann,3 Mason,4,5 and others have shown that network and circuit concepts can be profitably applied to a large variety of problems, for example, the design and the analysis of switching circuits, the solution of problems in probability, the analysis of functional relationships, etc."
"Operations research can be of value to the communication engineer by enabling him to set up valid criteria by which to judge the relative advantages of communication systems in specified applications. While in many cases insufficient data are available for an exact analysis or optimization, this approach is superior to the classical method of choosing arbitrary evaluation parameters which may be meaningless in the proposed application. On the other hand care must be taken in the interpretation of the results of an operations research procedure. In the classical approach the system is designed to meet some given specifications and is not optimum in any particular sense. In an operations research approach criteria of performance and effort, plus constraints, are chosen, and the system is optimized with respect to these quantities. However, because of necessary simplifications in both the criteria and the constraints the results are only pseudo optimum with respect to the desired applications. In effect, the ambiguities involved in choosing the specifications of a classical approach may have been exchanged for the ambiguities involved in choosing the criteria and the constraints in an operations research approach. Nevertheless, an operations research approach is desirable because it helps prevent unintentional ambiguities from entering the problem by directly focusing attention on the application as well as the system."
"Questions concerning coding for the binary symmetric channel might be divided into three categories: 1. For a specified error probability and with no restriction on the length of a code, what is the maximum rate at which information can be transmitted, i.e., what is the channel capacity? 2. For a specified code word length n and a specified rate less than the channel capacity, what is the error probability for the optimum code? 3. How can optimum codes, or at least good codes with a given rate and word length be constructed?"
"A complete matrix of self and mutual drops, with respect to a single reference point, will completely describe the constraints of a network as far as the significant points are concerned. Thus, these drops are a useful tool in the solution of network problems and have long been recognized as such. Previous to the days of the a-c network calculator, they were in widespread use for the calculation of losses, regulation short-circuit currents, etc. With the advent of the loss formula,1 these drops assumed a new role. Ironically the a-c network calculator, which once subjugated these drops to a relatively minor role, now permitted their economical use by providing a means of obtaining them by direct measurement. For some time now the network calculator has been used quite widely to determine these drops; however, this method still involved considerable time and patience, and there was a serious question as to whether the accuracy obtained was sufficient for all purposes."
"This paper describes the use of a general-purpose digital computer as an aid in the solution of problems encountered in the pooled operation of a large hydroelectric system. This program has been used effectively during the past year by operations engineers of the Bonneville Power Administration (BPA). Its use has enabled studies of operations to be prepared more rapidly and in a form that can be used readily by management in analyzing current conditions and in formulating plans for subsequent operations."
"The determination of the behavior of large electric networks confronts the engineer or mathematician with the necessity of solving a large number of equilibrium equations determined by the network and the restraints imposed on it. This task has been sufficiently formidable to bring about the development and construction of large analog computers such as the d-c and a-c network calculators. In recent years, the availability of medium- and large-scale digital computers has provided a new facility for solving network problems. Considerable attention has been given to applying digital computers to load flow, transient stability, and short-circuit calculations."
"The influence of coercivity hc and retentivity Br of the recording medium has been studied by numerous authors in the field of magnetic recording. In 1946 Camras1 considered the demagnetizing field of a bar magnet comprising the record medium and concluded that the reproduced voltage was proportional to Br for long wavelengths and to Hc for short wavelengths. In 1947 Kornei2 observed that a medium of high values of Hc/Br gave better high-frequency response, while Holmes3 concluded that in sound recording the ratio Hc/Br should be greater than 0.1 and less than 1. Wetzel4 also expressed a view similar to that of Camras on Hc and Br and presented data supporting it in 1948. Begun5 pointed out in 1949 that Hc was the most important factor in magnetic recording although he stated in 19556 that high Hc does not add materially to the medium's capability of retaining a short-wavelength signal unless Br can be increased at the same time. In 1953 Daniel7 reached the conclusion that as the wavelength approaches zero the playback voltage becomes proportional to 1/(1 + Br/Hc), while McGuigan8 pointed out that the area recorded on the medium at the time of writing spreads out over an area larger than the area directly under the pole tip of the head, and that the extent of this spreading depends on Hc of the medium, without specifying how."
"A method is introduced for evaluating the spectrum shape of random noise generators. This method uses only one selective filter and a variable chopper-carrier to select within a wide band, the frequency which is of interest. The random noise at the frequency selected is then squared and averaged over a sufficient length of time. This process being repeated at various frequencies yields the spectrum shape. The spectrum to be examined by the variable-chopper scheme is preshaped by a wide-band filter of known characteristic. The deviations of the output of the selective filter from the wide-band characteristic indicates the deviation of the original spectrum from a flat-shaped spectrum."
"The feedwater (FW) system for the Experimental Boiling Water Reactor was designed for utmost flexibility to accommodate many different experiments and procedures scheduled for this facility now in operation at the Argonne National Laboratory. Design criteria called for control of level from either the hotwell or the reactor vessel and ability to switch from simple single-element control (level control adjusting the main FW valve) to 2-element control, using either steam flow (SF) or FWF (FW flow) as the second element, to 3-element control using level, FWF and SF. Further, all of these functions had to be adjustable as to their worth, one to the other, and the final resultant signal to the FW control valve had to be adjustable as to proportional band, reset (integral), and rate action (derivative), to allow 3-function control."
"New pressurized water reactor designs are obtaining higher efficiencies and smaller physical size by operating primary coolant loops at higher temperatures and pressures. Since the ultimate temperatures and pressures are limited by the critical point of water and instrument errors, highly accurate process-type instrumentation is required and the instrument engineer becomes an important member of the reactor design team."
"High-performance nuclear reactor designs of the pressurized-water type are used with smaller than conventional steam drums to convert from primary coolant heat to steam in a heat exchanger. “Swell” caused by steam bubbles changing in size and raising the liquid level various amounts at different steam-generation levels poses an acute feed water control problem."
"The basic circuitry of ornl (Oak Ridge National Laboratory) reactor control instrumentation has been rearranged, and in some cases redesigned, so that more flexibility, reliability, and economy are achieved without sacrificing the safety performance of the original designs. Circuits are constructed on a uniform chassis (plug-in type) called a module and are interconnected in such a fashion that some of them can fail, or be removed from the system for checking, without causing system shutdown. In conjunction with an improved monitoring scheme, the equipment achieves the objectives."
"In nuclear reactor safety systems electromagnets are often used to connect neutron-absorbing rods to positioning drive units. The currents through these electromagnets can be varied in a continuous or discontinuous manner as a function of the reactor neutron level, the ultimate objective being to enable a trip or scram should an unsafe operating condition be present or imminent. A group of instrument channels, interconnected so as to determine whether the \"unsafe operating condition\" exists and, upon such determination, to trip the rods (all with no operator attention), comprise a safety system. One such safety system is the so-called auctioneering array of safety amplifiers, all deriving information from separate channels, and jointly feeding a single common point of interconnection or bus. The state of this bus is determined by the highest bidder (the channel with the highest output voltage). Thus a single channel, detecting an unsafe condition, is able to assume control and eventually shut down the system."
"A communications system was conceived and designed which would meet the special requirements of modern toll road operations simply and within reasonable costs."
"This paper attempts to present a comprehensive procedure, from an approach partly experimental and partly theoretical for the design of tropospheric-scatter communication systems, using single side band (SSB) or frequency modulation (FM) and frequency division multiplex (FDM)."
"It is the purpose of this paper to discuss the growing problem of interference between radar transmitters and microwave communication systems and the urgent need for the application of measures to enable these two radio services to coexist in the microwave spectrum. The problem basically is a difficult one since the radar transmitters use power outputs measured in megawatts, whereas the microwave transmitters normally use powers of 10 watts or less. The Bell System became aware of this problem as the result of a number of cases of interference to its microwave communication systems from radar operations. Two general types of interference are involved: 1. that resulting from the operation of radars directly on fundamental frequencies used for communication services, and 2. that due to the generation and radiation by the radars of spurious frequencies including harmonics which fall in bands and on frequencies used for communication services. The former type of interference can be eliminated through control of the frequency assignments for both radar and communication purposes. The latter type, however, is not so readily disposed of."
"Mobile radio-telephone service has been available to the American public since its inauguration in St. Louis in 1946. While this service is quite extensively in use today by mobile subscribers, and to some extent in rural areas, the present system requires an operator to complete the connection between a mobile and land subscriber. This paper covers a development of equipment that will work satisfactorily into present dial telephone equipment. The system has been developed for the telephone section of the Rural Electrification Administration, and was the result of work done in the laboratory since 1946. The pilot system originally was installed in the North Florida telephone company's property in Branford, Fla., and recently was transferred to the same company's exchange in Live Oak, Fla."
"A high value of direct current in a conductor produces a high magnetic field which may affect electromagnetic instruments and control gear in the vicinity. The value of the magnetic field in oersteds at a distance d in feet, from the center of a large round conductor, solid or tubular, carrying a current of I amperes is given very simply by the equation, $H = 0.00656 \\, I/d \\eqno {\\hbox{(1)}}$."
"To evaluate such choices as rating, type, make, and service period for meters, a method is developed for determining the error in measurement of total energy taken by customers. Also, a method is developed for determining the optimum economical service period for meters. In a discussion of statistical methods for estimating the fraction of meters operating beyond acceptable accuracy limits, it is shown that normal distribution of meter errors should not be assumed. Findings are presented regarding meter errors, customers' load characteristics, error in total energy measurement, optimum service period, and fraction of meters operating beyond accuracy limits. It is concluded that the present ruling on length of service period should be changed to one that limits the fraction of meters beyond accuracy limits. This ruling should lead to improved metering and very significant savings because of longer service periods."
"Cooling fins of equal thickness and known heat transfer have a definite thermal impedance which is hard to determine analytically. Computing generally valid curves of normalized variables eliminates most of this analysis and establishes simple relations for design parameters and impedance. Optimum design proportions appear in the analysis, eliminating the trial-and-error approach to find them. Comparative analysis of cooling systems is facilitated."
"The application of semiconductor rectifiers to most practical circuits requires a knowledge of the device's ability to withstand the forward current surges encountered as a result of severe faults or high instantaneous overloads. In particular, an understanding of the nature of failure is desirable in order to properly protect the rectifier. Suitable fuses can then be chosen to obtain optimum utilization of the rectifier. Gutzwiller1 has developed fuse-selection techniques which are adequate for this purpose."
"The rapid development of germanium and silicon power rectifier components in recent years has posed unique problems in fault current protection. These two types of rectifiers are characterized by the extremely high current densities tolerable in the active rectifying element at normal loads while maintaining low forward-voltage drop and thus high efficiency. For comparison purposes, full-load current densities (amperes per unit, cross-sectional area) in germanium and silicon rectifiers are approximately 1,000 times greater than in selenium and copper oxide metallic rectifiers."
"This paper describes two spinning disk random selectors that generate equally-likely independent random numbers. One selector is a small, portable, single-decade unit, and the other is a 3-decade unit with the modulus adjustable from 10 to 1,000 in increments of 10."
"The practical measurement of the resistance to earth of a very small symmetrical electrode is a fairly simple procedure and does not call for a great deal of knowledge of the fundamentals involved. However, as such electrodes increase in size and become more complex in their shape, there is greater need for a better understanding of the basic principles."
"The measurement of the impedance of grounding systems that have a value of less than one ohm and also residual ground currents flowing at the time of measurement requires special techniques and instrumentation. A summation of the quantities involved is given in this paper, with a description of a practical instrument that has been developed for making this type of measurement."
"The nondestructive measurement of cladding thickness when the cladding metal and the base metal are nonmagnetic has presented a major problem for a number of years. There have been several different approaches to the problem such as ultrasonics, back scattering of beta or gamma rays, and eddy currents. At present, the eddy-current method appears to have the greatest chance for success. Several eddy-current instruments have been developed, but there is still a need for improved instruments."
"The application of a stand-by power system to pole-mounted equipment involves a great deal more design effort than the conventional telephone battery plant."
"In the middle of 1956 a study was made of the economics of providing a cable-carrier system along one of the principal railway routes in England. The route was to be electrified by a 25-kv 50-cps single-phase system which made impossible the continued use of existing overhead telephone lines."
"THE mechanical design of modern electronic equipment must meet two requirements: fabrication and assembly suited to modern production processes; and, equally important, ease of installation and maintenance. The Stromberg-Carlson 561-type subscriber carrier was designed to meet both of these objectives. A companion paper1 describes the electrical operation of this equipment. The discussion that follows deals with the mechanical problems only."
"IN LATE WINTER of 1956, Stromberg-Carlson Company placed a new-subscriber carrier system, known as 561 carrier, on field trial operation. This system is a result of approximately 15 months of intensive effort by many people in a number of specialized fields of engineering. System layout, circuitry, filters, packaging, printed circuitry, and components all required much basic engineering to achieve the results finally obtained in this system."
"ALTHOUGH methods for synthesizing switching circuits have been developed, the search for easily applied techniques is still receiving considerable attention. Recently, for example, a great deal of work has been done on the development of matrix methods,1 which lead to efficient nonseries-parallel circuit arrangements. Matrix methods, however, are still in the formative stage and have not as yet proved to be practical circuit-design tools. The direct application of Boolean algebra,2 on the other hand, yields circuits of the series-parallel type, which generally are not very efficient. In addition, a designer has a large number of alternative procedures available to him in the application of Boolean algebra, and can not usually ascertain beforehand the procedure which will result in the best circuit arrangement."
"This paper may be considered as a status report in the development of standards for electronics transformers used with high-vacuum rectifier tubes. The need for adequate standards for this type of transformer has become more pressing as vacuum rectifier tubes of high voltage and high power have been developed to meet the requirements of research and manufacturing operations. Military and commercial applications that are now being developed add to the need for adequate standards."
"ONE of the important problems met in the design of transistor circuits is how to arrange the bias network to obtain the proper operating point and how to maintain this condition within specified limits, subject to environmental changes such as temperature, or to a range of parameters due to production spread in device manufacture. Several bias circuits have been proposed and are being used which give good performance. The question naturally arises as to what essential features do these circuits have in common? It is the purpose of this paper to introduce a very general method of analyzing bias circuits and begins by first showing that almost all 3-terminal bias circuits can be reduced to the same simple standard form. The analysis for this standard-form circuit will then be presented. Finally, an example drawn from current practice will be given showing the unifying concepts which result from the general theory."
"UNDER certain conditions, audio amplifiers with feedback may exhibit instability at low frequencies, which is not predictable by conventional linear analysis. This instability caused by nonlinear effects can occur when the final stage is in class B operation and is preceded by a variable-gain stage, such as a pentode or tetrode."
"THIS PAPER presents a synthesis procedure for designing optimum sampled-data systems on a statistical basis. It deals with a strictly digital system, in which case the desired output is undefined except at sampling instants. Consequently such consideration as error between sampling instants is meaningless. In the past few years, a number of excellent papers have been published on the subject of z-transform theory for the analysis and synthesis of sampled-data systems. However, as most of these papers deal with known inputs such as step, ramp, sinusoidal, etc., there appears still to be room for a theory which is applicable when correlation functions concerning the input signals are the only known factors outside the plant to be controlled."
"A SKILLED polyglot accomplishes translation from one language to another by translating thoughts; the source-language material is read and digested, and then the thought of the material is formed into target language sentences and recorded. The unskilled translator would translate first on a word-for-word basis, and would then make improvements in the output by consideration of the context of the words. The ultimate in machine translation would be that of translation by thought, as the accomplished polygot would translate, but several fundamental problems remain to be solved before anything of this sort may be accomplished. For instance, there is a great spread between the amount of storage in the human brain and the greatest amount of storage available in any present-day computer. The brain is estimated to have a total storage capacity of 1015 to 1020 bits. The largest of computers stores only about 109 bits, or not over one millionth as much storage as the human brain. A second limitation is that of present knowledge of language. Linguistic knowledge concerning many problems which are vital to machine translation is rather lacking. Thus it would seem that in the present elementary state of the machine translation art the attempt to perform translations should be made more as the unskilled translator does, by basing the translations on the word-for-word translation, and making such improvements as possible from a consideration of the context of the words in the sentence."
"DEVELOPMENT of microwave communication facilities for Bell System use was undertaken in 1945, taking advantage of prewar research at Bell Telephone Laboratories and of the impetus in technology achieved during the war years. In 1947, an experimental 4,000-mc/sec (megacycle per second) system of moderate bandwidth (TD-X)1 was established between New York, N. Y., and Boston, Mass., a route distance of approximately 220 miles (354 kilometers). It was used commercially for transmission of television signals and experimentally for telephone transmission."
"SINCE WORLD WAR II, thousands of medium and large-scale scientific and business data-processing computers have been placed in governmental and industrial service throughout the country. With this growth has come the inevitable marriage of computing machinery to wire and radio communications. The need for more reliable and efficient forms of data communications is at the present time greater than ever. Efficient bandwidth utilization and reliability have been major design objectives of the high-capacity Kineplex system. The name Kineplex has been adopted because the system employs kinematic filters in its detection process and is most frequently employed in multiplex configurations. This paper will describe, in brief, the Kineplex system concept. White-noise performance will be compared with an ideal phase-shift system and with actual performance data resulting from tests conducted on a typical narrow-band Frequency Shift (FS) system. Kineplex will be shown, in principle, to make the best possible use of transmission bandwidth."
"THE BIZMAC system was initially designed to meet the requirements of large integrated clerical operations. This was accomplished by analyzing the operations in public utilities, life-insurance companies, government agencies, merchandising and manufacturing firms. As a result of these studies, the BIZMAC I system was designed. Three BIZMAC I systems, with a total number of more than 200 tape stations, are now in service."
"The Transformer Analog Computer (TAC) is a very versatile machine capable of solving problems in a-c networks and also linear simultaneous equations with complex coefficients. With the aid of TAC, it is possible to determine the latent roots of matrices and zeros of polynomials, and also the data required to plot the Nyquist diagram of a servosystem. In this paper, the principle of operation of TAC is explained briefly, and a detailed description of the new double-ended unit developed here is given, along with examples to show how the operation and interconnection of TAC become as simple as in the case of the conventional A-C Network Analyzer. The special parallel interconnector employed for the double-ended units is described and the precautions to be taken while making connections for a multimesh network are indicated. Special emphasis is laid on the fact that, on the basis of the modified system of connection, TAC is rendered eminently suitable for centralized plugging-board operation; and the plugging diagram is a replica of the actual network under study. Details in respect to an improved type of nonlinear compensator and an inexpensive direct measuring system are given towards the end of the paper."
"The theory of small-signal heterodyne mixers operating with very large injection potentials is described. The mixer properties investigated are the conversion transconductance, the relative amplitudes of the difference-frequency and injection frequency components in the output, and the amplitude of the injection modulation-frequency component in the output in the case where the injection potential is amplitude-modulated to a small degree, as by power-supply ripple or noise, for example. The theoretical analysis is based upon 2- and 3-segment piecewise-linear approximations of the current and incremental transfer conductance curves, so that the mixer can be treated as a switch-type or commutator-type modulator. The method of constructing the approximations from the original curves is described. The result is a set of universal performance curves for mixers of the particular class chosen to illustrate the method. The method can be extended to other classes of mixers."
"PRIOR to the installation of a large wind-tunnel drive rated 110,000 hp (horsepower) continuously and 132,000 hp for one hour, an analog computer study was made of the drive and its control. Although considerable previous experience had been acquired in the design of this type of drive, two factors made it desirable to examine the system on the computer. One factor is the large power usage of the drive and the length of time involved in acceleration and deceleration at a rate acceptable to the electrical utility. These considerations prohibited excessive tune-up adjustments and testing. The other factor is the transient current in the d-c machine during switching. It was necessary to determine that this current would not exceed circuit-breaker settings."
"ELECTRON beam generating or X-ray equipment with the self-rectifying tube connected directly across the high-voltage resonance transformer1‾5 is a very reliable and economical type of high-voltage apparatus. The principal disadvantage of the spread of the electron energy during the useful half-cycle may be greatly reduced by the application of a periodically varying negative bias applied between a control electrode of the electron gun and the filament, so that current flow can take place only during the central portion of the half-wave of voltage."
"ELECTROMECHANICAL switching devices, typified by the relay, are used by millions in the communications industry and have been developed to a high degree of perfection and specialization. Their reliability is such that only a few failures per billion contact operations are expected under telephone operating conditions. The use of twin contacts of noble metals, improved contact actuation, erosion control, and cleaner operating environments all have contributed to this perfection."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the title page of this issue of the periodical."
"This paper describes an electronic circuit which differentiates, with respect to time, information represented by the amplitude modulation of an a-c carrier wave. A circuit of this type is useful in a-c fire-control computing systems where rate information must be obtained from positional input data. In any fire-control computer, the choice of the particular type of differentiator to be used depends upon the form of the input data. If these data are in the form of d-c signals, accurate electronic differentiating circuits are available. If they are in the form of a-c signals a positional servo coupled to an a-c tachometer is usually used1 (especially for rectangular co-ordinate fire-control systems). The accuracy of servo differentiators, however, is inadequate for many applications. The electronic circuit to be described offers a means of obtaining, for an a-c fire-control computing system, more accurate differentiation than has so far been obtained using servo differentiators. Basically, the circuit described is a modification of a well-known d-c differentiator circuit which utilizes a Miller integrator in a feedback path, achieving differentiation by the implicit function technique.2 A magnetically keyed demodulator3,4 has been incorporated into the design so that the d-c circuit can be used in an a-c computing system. This demodulator circuit has excellent linearity characteristics and a wide operating range, making the electronic differentiator design feasible for many applications."
"The inauguration of direct-distance dialing by the customer requires use of telephone numbers consisting of ten digits. Thus a telephone subscriber in San Francisco will dial 212 CH 3-1000 in order to reach the Bell Telephone Laboratories in New York City. The first three digits are the code for the metropolitan New York area, while the remaining seven digits comprise the telephone number dialed by subscribers within the metropolitan area. To handle calls involving ten digits, the digit-storing capacity of many existing offices will have to be extended and various methods of accomplishing this are under consideration."
"A novel method of matrix algebra is derived for the analysis of networks representing logical systems too complex for conventional approaches using Boolean algebra. It is shown that truth tables of system blocks may be treated as matrices and that logical operations on such matrices can be performed efficiently."
"It is often said that the best buy is not necessarily the lowest cost article which can be purchased. It is usually the article which will perform the required function for the required time with minimum over-all cost. Equipment may be designed to meet one or intermediate grades of the following requirements: 1. Lowest manufacturing cost (where maintenance costs are unimportant). 2. Minimum total cost (consisting of manufacturing, installation, and maintenance costs for the required time the equipment is to be used). 3. A minimum number of failures for the required time. (No compromises are to be made in manufacturing, installation, and preventive maintenance to achieve this goal.)"
"As the complexity of multiloop systems increases, the prediction of their transient performance with the use of conventional linear analytical methods becomes quite difficult. In those cases in which each loop of the system contains several nonlinearities, the application of analog computer techniques becomes an attractive method in the solution of transient performance problems. This paper presents a résumé of an analog computer study of the transient performance of such a complex nonlinear system as represented by a dual-cycle boiling-water-reactor nuclear power plant."
"A television video transmission system is basically a waveform transmission system. The prime objective is the preservation of the waveforms of signals on their journey from the camera to the home receiver. It is inevitable that some distortion of the signal occur in any practical transmission path. The amount of distortion which is permissible is based not on physical measurements alone but on viewing tests by critical observers. Those physically measurable characteristics in which large variations cause no detectable difference in the quality of the received picture may be permitted large tolerances, while those to which the picture quality is particularly sensitive are permitted only small tolerances."
"Suggestions have been made from time to time for reducing the transmission time or bandwidth required for the facsimile transmission of text or pictorial material by representing it by a description which has low redundancy. This paper presents an investigation of the channel capacity required for various types of copy, using one such description, based on one-dimensional differential coordinates together with statistically matched encoding. A binary digital transmission channel is assumed throughout. Only black and white copy is considered. A written or printed message is assumed to consist of a 2-dimensional array of resolution elements, called dots, whose number determines the definition. Since a definition of 0.01 inch is widely accepted as satisfactory for facsimile reproduction of black and white copy, this figure, corresponding to almost a million dots for an 8 1/2- by 11-inch typewritersize sheet, is used throughout."
"A few recent papers1‾3 have been concerned with analyses of conventional, single-ended, full-wave magnetic amplifier circuits (or “doublet” amplifiers4) based on the t heory that the reactors of this type of amplifier are coupled through the control windings and that this coupling results in feedback. The feedback, in turn, causes time delay and an increase in the volts/volt gain. The purpose of this paper is to present a novel circuit which clearly demonstrates the existence of the feedback phenomenon and to offer, for the magnetic amplifier design engineer, a mathematical treatment of this phenomenon both in the time domain and the frequency domain."
"The repeater described in this paper is a part of the 45BN carrier telephone system. This system transmits and receives 24 voice channels over two pairs in a nonloaded exchange or toll cable. It is a member of a family of miniaturized carrier systems using many interchangeable subassemblies.1,2,3 The complete family of type 45 carrier equipment provides carrier transmission over open-wire cable and radio circuits."
"The magic word semiconductor has been placed upon the lips of almost every electronically minded individual in the United States through untiring publicity efforts by manufacturers and their representatives. In accomplishing this purpose, the sales promoter often has impaired the future value of these new devices with predictions of unlimited life and hopeful claims for operating capabilities. These claims, although corroborated by theory, apparently have not yet been fulfilled in reasonable quantity with present production techniques for low-power silicon rectifiers. Until greater reproducibility can be attained, derating of both forward current and reverse voltage is necessary for a useful low failure rate."
"The saturable-reactor class of magnetic amplifiers has recently received considerable attention as the subject of new analyses efforts.1,2 Although the saturable reactor antedates the self-saturating class of magnetic amplifiers, it is by no means functionally simpler and does not afford the easiest starting point for a general analysis of magnetic amplifiers. Therefore, in a previous paper,3 the author introduced a block-diagram method of analysis as applied to the self-saturating class of magnetic amplifiers. It was shown that both half-cycle response circuits and conventional full-wave circuits can be analyzed by a single theory and that, in fact, the two differ only by the amount of feedback present. As an extension of the block-diagram method of analysis to the saturable reactor, this paper is intended to lend further support to the premise that all classes of magnetic amplifiers are basically of the same genus and therefore should be describable by a single theory. The use of the block diagram is particularly effective in clarifying the relationship between the saturable-reactor class and the self-saturating class of magnetic amplifiers."
"The effective feedback factor of a magnetic amplifier is a measure for the stability of operation (drift). In conventional forms of external-feedback or self-saturating circuits, the drift is linearly proportional to the actual value of ampere-turn gain. In these circuits, the drift can be reduced by reducing the extrinsic-feedback factor. However, because the ratio of gain reduction over drift reduction is constant, the gain will be reduced at the same rate."
"This paper describes a problem and one solution to the problem which arose during the logical design of a digital computer for the real-time simulation of airplane flight. The computer in question is a 1-address machine with magnetic core memory which performs the basic operations of addition, comparison, transfer from arithmetic unit to memory, etc., at the rate of one operation every 5 microseconds. The logic of the machine is realized in pulse-type diode switching circuits similar to those employed by the National Bureau of Standards Eastern Automatic Computer and operating at an allowable pulse repetition frequency of 1.2 megacycles."
"In an analog computer application which used several nonlinear elements, there arose a need for a sinusoidal oscillator of 2,500 cps (cycles per second) frequency, with frequency stability of better than 0.5%, amplitude stability greater than 0.2%, and a harmonic content of less than 0.2%. There are very few circuits which can reconcile these requirements, one of these being the Meacham oscillator.1 If the requirement is for an oscillator in the audio-frequency range, the Meacham circuit loses its attractiveness, since quartz crystals in this frequency range are rather cumbersome. If an inductor and a capacitor are substituted for the crystal, it is found that some other circuits have better inherent phase magnification."
"A new printing demand meter has been designed. Several innovations have resulted in a device which has higher accuracy, lower cost, and smaller size than previous printing demand meters. Some of the novel features of the new improved design are discussed."
"A moderate-sized digital computer can be an effective tool in the calculation of the probability of simultaneous forced outages which are used in determining the generator reserve requirements of a utility system. The large amount of arithmetical work connected with an extensive study by the probability method makes the use of a digital computer imperative if the results are to be obtained in a reasonable length of time. This paper describes a program for the International Business Machines (IBM) 650 digital computer that has been written for this purpose."
"Wide-band o/h (over-the-horizon) radio equipment in the 680- to 900-mc (megacycle) band suitable for use in toll-quality multichannel telephone or TV (television) circuits is described. The system comprises 60-foot parabolic antennas fed with dual polarization horns, 10-watt drivers, 10-kw amplifiers using 6-cavity klystrons, and receivers which permit dual or quadruple diversity by combining the received signals at the IF (intermediate frequency). The over-all 1-db (decibel) bandwidth is 15 mc, and the time delay distortion characteristics are suitable for interconnection with existing toll-quality radio links."
"A miami-havana radio system, consisting of the wide-band over-the-horizon system discussed in another paper,1 together with TD-2 microwave links at each end, has recently been placed in service. This paper discusses the overall radio system, its method of operation, and some of the test results obtained during its initial line-up."
"Radio relay in the bell telephone System now provides over 13 million miles of 2-way message circuits, approximately one fourth of all the long-distance telephone circuits in this country. It also provides about 62,000 miles of broad-band radio channels which make network TV (television) available to over 500 TV broadcasting stations in 350 cities. This rapid expansion of radio relay facilities indicated some time ago that by 1955 portions of the central transcontinental and other backbone routes would be loaded to their capacity of six broad-band channels in each direction of transmission. Continued expansion would require the development of new radio relay systems in the higher frequency bands assigned by the Federal Communications Commission for common-carrier use."
"This paper describes a transmission testing set for high-speed data circuits. The set is an electronic, transistorized device intended primarily for laboratory use in the development of binary data transmission systems."
"This report gives a careful study of subharmonic sustained oscillations found in iron-cored reactor oscillatory circuits. The analysis is based on the power balance principle, giving satisfactory explanation and understanding of the idea of frequency conversion. The analysis is valid for both the harmonic and subharmonic cases. The ranges of synchronization, the methods of starting, and the conditions of stability of these oscillations are given. Numerical examples for the third subharmonic oscillations are presented. Just outside the locking range, the amplitude and phase of the subharmonic oscillations are no longer constant, but variable; the oscillations are defined as “pulled oscillations.” A theoretical analysis for determining the instantaneous phase angle is given. An experimental investigation to test the validity of the theoretical analysis is carried out. The experimental work includes steady and transient conditions, a harmonic source of voltage being applied. The ranges of the supply voltage switching angles required for starting sustained oscillations for different circuit parameters are experimentally obtained. An initial charging of the condenser or an instantaneous application of d-c flux improves the starting conditions."
"In many instances our advancing technology today demands that information be presented to the human observer in digital rather than analog form. A very desirable digital indicator can be achieved if a set of mutually insulated back electrodes or segments are formed on an electroluminescent panel. By applying excitation to selected combinations of these segments, bright numerals or other figures may be formed. The logic required to translate from the input information to the segment code can be accomplished with a number of conventional devices. However, a relatively new switch, known as an Elpak relay, has proved to be well suited to this application."
"Young engineers entering a field of electrical development and design probably are equipped with some initial knowledge of that area, but may lack a balanced perspective of the relative significance of phenomena and facts and methods. In fact, they may have altogether immature notions of the ways by which engineering problems are solved. This is particularly true if their college training has been of a dreary “learning-by-the-book” variety, where procedures and “formulas” may have been derived or accepted without adequate effort to appreciate their physical significance, limitations and implications, and where so-called problems really may not have extended beyond disguised pretexts for algebraic or arithmetical manipulations within the rigid frame of those formulas."
"The primary objectives of an automatic rectifier control in electrical precipitation are to increase long-term collection efficiency, eliminate need for operating personnel, and insure maximum utilization of equipment under the widely variable process and operating conditions found in most applications. A review of the literature1 ‾,sup>3 indicates that a number of automatic control schemes have been devised for precipitator control. Most of these systems never received widespread usage because of inherent limitations. Some required expensive, complicated mechanisms which were difficult to maintain or adjust. Others were unable to provide the correct control range, response or reaction to meet the variety of operating conditions encountered. More recently, improved equipment based on electronic techniques has been developed and is now in successful commercial use.4"
"The operation and characteristics of the saturable transformer1 and the saturating magnetic reference type of transformer2 have been presented in past articles. The advantages and shortcomings of the self-saturating magnetic amplifier circuits have been explored at length. It is the purpose of this paper to start with the elementary concept of a magnetic switch and develop a magnetically controlled self-saturated transformer. The magnetic system developed possesses many of the desirable operational characteristics of both the saturable and saturating transformers. An adjustable a-c or d-c output is obtained which is also voltage-stabilized. At the same time, the self-saturating transformer retains the gain and response characteristics of the self-saturating magnetic amplifier, although a number of the disadvantages of the magnetic amplifier are eliminated."
"The analog computer field is frequently concerned with the generation of periodic nonsinusoidal functions of time. At present this waveform generation is frequently performed with biased diode networks, curve followers, and synchronous switches. The main purpose of this paper is to give the theoretical design and analysis of nonsinusoidal function generators which utilize delay-type or short-time memory devices and certain nonlinear elements in their structure. The different types of function generators to be discussed have the common property that the output waveform may be controlled easily and may be made to approximate various desired shapes to high degrees of accuracy."
"A newly developed watt-hour meter for measuring energy in two phases of a 4-wire Y 3-phase system is essentially a single-phase meter with L-R phase-shifting networks in the current circuits. This paper describes the meter and shows performance and operating characteristics."
"Transistors present many advantages over vacuum tubes. Though they may be substituted for tubes in amplifiers, oscillators, pulse generators, pulse counting circuits, etc., they only amount to one hundredth of the weight of tubes, one thousandth of the volume, they consume one tenth of the power, and their average life is shown to be longer."
"A practical approach is developed for the design of the toroidal magnetic amplifier, based on synthesizing the design from design charts, and thus avoiding the necessity of having available detailed data from previous equipment. Starting with a known power supply frequency, together with a desired gain and time constant, the load voltage and current are utilized in determining the core. With the core specified, additional charts are presented for the winding layout design. The usual heat transfer and resistance computations serve as a check on the initial design synthesis and these complete the design process. A straightforward and practical step-by-step design procedure is outlined. This paper, the first of two on this subject, is concerned with the design approach and the core determination. Part II will cover the windings and the completion of the design."
"This development of a practical approach to the design of the toroidal magnetic amplifier is based on synthesizing the design from design charts, thus avoiding the necessity for having available detailed data from previous equipment. Starting with a known power supply frequency, together with a desired gain and time constant, the load voltage and current are utilized in determining the core. With the core specified, additional charts and techniques are presented for the winding layout design. The usual heat transfer and resistance computations serve as a check on the initial design synthesis, and these complete the design process. A straightforward and practical step-by-step design procedure is outlined. This paper, the second of two on the subject, is concerned with the winding layout and the completion of the design. Part I,1 presented the design approach and the method of core determination. Thus, information is given making possible the practical and effective design of the magnetic amplifier having toroidal construction."
"The problem of frequency error correction in carrier systems has become more and more important in recent years. Not long ago, the use of free-running oscillators at both terminals of the system was considered satisfactory in many cases. Today an end-to-end stability of ±1 cycle is normally required."
"The very high temperatures that are expected to be encountered in aircraft and missiles are presenting unusual problems to the designers of electronic equipment and components. Two solutions that have been suggested are the following: 1. that more cooling capacity be introduced to maintain the equipment at a safe maximum operating temperature, and 2. the use of parts and processes that are inherently temperature tolerant over a wide temperature range. If the latter approach is taken, the component designer must make a major development contribution to extend successfully the ambient temperature rating of his device from a present-day 200 C (degrees centigrade) maximum to a value which is expected to be as high as 500 C."
"This year, a td-2 radio relay system1 will span Canada from Halifax to Victoria. Certain sections of the network are designed to handle television and telephone circuits simultaneously on the same broad-band channel. It is the purpose of this paper to describe the transmission and terminal-equipment aspects which make this new technique possible and economically attractive."
"The uses and the advantages of 5-channel paper tape are well recognized in the business world. Paper tape has been used for many years for message sending. Its use in telegraphic communication equipment serves as the life line of communications for many businesses. In recent years the decentralization of factory equipment and the general growth of businesses have made the transmission of accounting or scientific data between cities increasingly important. The rapidly expanding use of commercial computers and business machines will result in a further increase in the volume of data that must be communicated between cities. As more and more data are communicated, one becomes aware that a major improvement is required to refine the system, especially with regard to error handling. There is a practical limit on the improvements that may be made in transmission facilities to decrease the error rate. However, these improvements, plus a system of error detecting, could provide a highly efficient system that would be able to handle large volumes of data with a minimum amount of error-handling techniques."
"A film data-recording system is described which combines the advantages of pictorial and digital recording. This combination of photographic and digital techniques provides a record containing a picture of the event of interest with the adjacent frame used to record a digital code, which may be used to provide a record of instrumentation, time, or other identifying information."
"The paper reviews the concepts of information, channel capacity, and equivocation. The probability of error is used to calculate the equivocation. It is then explained that by coding the original message or signal it is possible to incorporate into the coded message the error-detecting and error-correcting information. The requirements of an efficient code are stated, and the Shannon-Fano code cited as an example. The parity check is explained and the manner in which it makes use of the error-detecting and error-correcting information is illustrated."
"Return loss as a measure of a circuit's uniformness has been used in the Telephone Industry for many years. It usually determines the amount of gain which may be introduced into a circuit before encountering undesirable conditions of echo or singing. While the toll plant, or long distance circuits, have been of primary interest, today's transmission objectives tend to emphasize the need for accurate analysis of all trunk cables with a view toward their improvement. This paper will review briefly the meaning of return loss, and attempt to acquaint the reader with some of the practical factors encountered in analyzing and improving the return loss of loaded trunk cables."
"In any extensive telephone system, certain objectives and controls must be set up to provide and maintain satisfactory performance. This control of quality is as important in communication service as in manufacturing. Rather than stemming from an engineer's dream or a mathematical formula, quality is essentially a user's impression of the product. There is danger, therefore, in measuring it in terms of somewhat arbitrary physical limits. There is danger, too, in not recognizing what lies behind the objectives and the effects on the user when these are not met."
"One of the major difficulties involved in the numerical solution of partial differential equations of the parabolic or hyperbolic type by means of finite difference approximations is the tendency of the solution to be unstable under certain conditions. If instability exists, a small error (e.g., round-off error) arising at some point in the computation procedure, tends to become larger and larger as the computation progresses, until the error terms completely overshadow the desired solution, making it worthless. Some finite difference approximations appear to be stable under any condition; others are always unstable; while some are stable only if the spacing intervals satisfy certain requirements."
"This paper is concerned with the application of the self-balancing magnetic-amplifier technique in the realm of flux-gate magnetometers. It describes a second-harmonic type of self-balancing flux-gate magnetometer which is operated in conjunction with a push-pull magnetic amplifier in such a way that the d-c flux in the high-permeability cores of the magnetometer is completely balanced by an opposing d-c flux. Thus, the magnetic field to be investigated, e.g., the earth's field in the vicinity of the magnetometer, remains substantially undisturbed. The compensating d-c flux is linearity proportional to the average value of the polarity-reversible unidirectional output current of the magnetic amplifier. With infinite internal gain (“critical regeneration”), this current is varied by an infinitesimal d-c flux increment in the cores of the magnetometer and may be indicated and/or recorded by means of high-precision moving-coil instruments or d-c potentiometer recorders. In a modified arrangement, the self-balancing flux-gate magnetometer is used as a “gradiometer” for measurement of inhomogeneity of magnetic fields."
"The developments of recent decades have sustained the prediction made in 1890 by Mahan that if a successful transisthmian canal were to be built in Central America, the Caribbean would become a great commercial area and a crossroads of transportation, not only of local and of South American traffic but between Europe and Asia as well.1 The importance of Havana, Cuba, in the day of the sailing ship, seated as it is in a geographical position so favored by winds and ocean currents as to command the only passage to Europe, has not been diminished but enhanced by the prophesized burgeoning trade and intercourse. To meet the communications needs of this market place and the richly cultivated area to which it gives access, the Western Union Telegraph Company operates three submarine telegraph cables between Havana and Key West, Fla., an average distance of 101 nautical miles. The second cable of the three was laid in 1889, almost as if in anticipation of Mahan's observation, and the third was laid in 1917, three years after the completion of the Panama Canal and, seemingly, in confirmation of it. Until recently, these duplex-operated cables were terminated in differentially connected polar relays reflecting the land-line practice of those decades, a condition sustaining 3-channel multiplex operation or a signalling capacity three times that of the earlier Morse circuits."
"The successful planning, installation, and operation of a nation-wide switching plan to interconnect more than 62 million telephones in the United States requires a high degree of teamwork between various groups of people. This involves the development, design, transmission, equipment, and building engineers to provide the system and the operating and maintenance people to keep it going. This paper deals primarily with transmission phases of switching telephone trunks in the United States. Brief mention is made of the interconnection with the Canadian switching plan involving approximately 5 million additional telephones."
"Present-day expansion of telephone service is at peak levels with no immediate end in sight, and benefiting by this expansion is an important segment of the United States - the rural area. Questions may be asked, “What's new about this?” or, “Rural telephones have been with us for years, so why the fuss?” True, there is nothing new in the concept of rural telephone service, but the present demand is at such levels that serious problems are presented to the telephone industry. The economic problem is one of real significance, but it is not discussed here. It is proposed to discuss, rather, the transmission aspects involved in extending this service to these areas."
"The transmission of information by teletypewriter means has proved itself, as shown by the number of civilian and military networks now in operation. The advantage of this method over voice lies in its reduced bandwidth and the production of printed copy. The teletypewriter code also allows specialized data-transmitting techniques to be used; the printed copy eliminates operator stand-by time. It was natural that the Air Force would want to extend its teletypewriter network to include its aircraft. Kleinschmidt Laboratories was awarded the contract to develop such an airborne teletypewriter, known as the AN/AGC-1. Basically, the Air Force required a send-receive type of teletypewriter incorporating a recorder-reproducer device for information storage, and a selective call system. This paper presents the results of the developments leading to the design of such a teletypewriter."
"The 200,000-mile private-wire network of the United States Air Force includes five Plan 51 switching centers in the United States, leased from The Western Union Telegraph Company. These centers are interconnected by trunk lines and each center has lines radiating to tributary stations in its area. Gateway centers near the Atlantic and Pacific coasts extend the network over radio channels to numerous Air Force installations overseas. This network has been in operation since February 1951. Satisfactory experience in operating this network, with its push-button-operated Plan 51 switching centers, has led the Air Force to request Western Union to engineer a fully automatic switching system for world-wide use. It is expected that automatic switching will increase the speed and efficiency of message handling and result in considerable reduction in operating labor. It will also provide for additional circuit capacity."
"An accelerated program of flight-testing an aircraft or its power unit it often instrumental in more speedy development of its final design for quantity production. The time rate at which flight-tests can be carried out is rarely dependent on a time-in-the-air factor, but instead hinges on the time required for calculating and computing the data resulting from individual tests. Tremendous amounts of data from many different sources must be reduced and correlated to permit equipment modifications before subsequent tests can take place. When data reduction of analog-type information to be used for computer calculations is performed by manual devices or human beings, the time between individual flight tests often spans a period of days, or even weeks. This does not take into account the increased chance for inaccuracies to occur and the extremely high cost of this type of data-reduction process.1"
"This paper is intended to show the intimate relationships between the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of certain matrices and some well-known electrical parameters such as propagation constants, characteristic and iterative impedances in single-phase systems, and symmetrical components in polyphase systems whose impedance matrices have circular symmetry. The basic ideas are applied to show how Lucas functions, and the polynomials of Chebyshev and Gegenbauer enter naturally in the discussion of the propagation of potentials and currents along chains of identical and geometrically tapered quadripoles."
"The fundamental design and successful operation of the nation-wide switching plan assumes a specified return loss performance of the metropolitan area plant. Metropolitan area plant includes the terminating trunks and subscriber loops which are involved at each end of an intercity telephone connection. The return losses not only must be adequate over the voice band as a whole in order to limit echo currents, but also must meet certain minimums at individual frequencies to avoid singing conditions."
"The measurement of steep-front impulse waves, when the time to flashover is less than 1 microsecond (µsec), presents problems seldom encountered in ordinary testing where flashover generally occurs on the tail of a conventional 1 1/2× 40 µsec wave."
"The use of saturable reactors to produce narrow, high-energy pulses is becoming increasingly important in radar and similar applications where rugged devices of high reliability are required. General principles of operation of these magnetic pulse generators are discussed thoroughly in the original paper on this subject by W. S. Melville.1 Subsequently, other articles have been published dealing with design criteria, core volume derivations, and other additions to the theory of operation and state of the art.2‾5, These works, however, concern themselves mainly with resonant charging circuits. The intent of this paper is to derive the fundamental equations for nonresonant operation of the input charging circuit and to compare performance as a function of the ratio of charging circuit frequency to line frequency. Piecewise linear analysis is the method employed to obtain the solutions of this nonlinear circuit."
"The dynamic characteristics of a thermal converter for measuring alternating current or voltage are of some importance in a number of applications. The time constant and response time are the characteristics most often required. The change of emf (electromotive force) of a thermal converter after a step change in heater current is only approximately exponential, so that the definition as well as methods of measuring these quantities must be specified. This investigation of methods of measuring these quantities was undertaken at the request of the AIEE Committee on Indicating and Integrating Instruments."
"Switching circuit synthesis presents two basic problems to the engineer. First, he must be able to obtain a circuit which will function according to the input-output specifications. Second, the circuit must be economical in the use of switching components, whether they are transistors, diodes, vacuum tubes, or relay contacts."
"Single-phase switching of small high-voltage transformers with large turns ratios can result in excessive secondary voltages and damage to connected equipment unless these conditions are recognized and measures taken to mitigate these phenomena. Failure of switchgear connected to the low side of a 66,000/480 500-kva delta-delta transformer prompted investigation and measurement of voltages attained on two similar installations. Measurements were found to be in reasonable agreement with those determined analytically."
"The various papers which have considered the subect of automation of engineering computations have shown that there are certain mathematical procedures, such as interpolation in tables and solution of equations, which occur with considerable frequency. In this paper an effort is made to give some more explicit information on a few of these procedures. It is not feasible to do more than indicate some of the methods which have been of value, but it is hoped that these may help to develop interest in a most fascinating and useful field. The way to further study is indicated by the references."
"An electric hygrometer is a device used to measure relative humidity (RH) by electrical means. Mechanical methods are exemplified by the hair hygrometer and the sling Psychrometer. An electric hygrometer was developed by Dunmore1 and used extensively in radiosondes to obtain upper-air data for the United States Meteorological Service. The electric hygrometer described in this report has a lower resistance than the Dunmore hygrometer. The lower resistance of this hygrometer allows direct operation of relays with the hygrometer current."
"Present switching plans which utilize automatic switching equipment in the telephone plant call for many changes in the layout of circuits and routing of traffic. Where yesterday traffic was handled in as direct a path as possible with a minimum of switching, today one or more different routings may be used to connect the same two telephones at different times."
"This newly developed telegraph page printer weighs only 12 pounds, but is completely compatible with existing teleprinter equipment. It is believed to be the first practical teleprinter of radically reduced weight and cube and one of the most radical innovations in the teleprinter art. This paper describes some characteristics of the machine and discusses the basic mechanisms used."
"Function tables of limited size in connection with appropriate interpolation techniques offer considerable advantages in digital computers used in the control loop of servo systems. Several pertinent applications are treated in detail."
"Corona is universally used for charging particles in electrostatic precipitation. In normal corona there is a glow at the active electrode, usually a wire, which supplies ions of one sign to the main charging region. Under some abnormal conditions a glow may exist at points away from the active electrode so that there are ions of both signs in the charging region. These abnormal conditions usually increase the current at a given voltage, and may be quite detrimental in the charging of dust particles. Two types of abnormal corona have been investigated."
"In many magnetic amplifiers, push-pull action is used to obtain outputs that depend in polarity (or phase) on the signal polarity (or phase).1,2,3"
"The truly explosive progress achieved by the digital computer in the last 10 years, and its outstanding contributions to the solution of scientific, engineering, and data-processing problems have been recently reviewed by Harder.1 There is no evidence that this phenomenal rate of progress will diminish in the next 10 years."
"Nearly all surge or impulse voltage measurements involve the use of a cathode-ray oscillograph (CRO) and measuring cable. If an ideal cable is assumed, i.e., one with no losses and a surge impedance which does not vary with frequency, conditions giving zero measurement error can readily be set up. However, all cables have some attenuation and their surge impedance is never the same for all frequencies.1,2,3 In low-voltage impulse work (where very short cables can be used) such factors may be negligible under certain conditions, but for measuring high-voltage surges a fairly long cable (50 feet or longer) is usually required and possible errors caused by the cable should be considered, especially for measuring steeply rising surges. The purpose of this paper is to discuss such errors and devise methods for measuring and minimizing them."
"The working group on rain tests was appointed in January 1957, for the purpose of studying problems associated with wet flashover and wet holding tests on high-voltage insulators such as are used on transmission and distribution lines. These problems are intimately concerned with the resistivity of the water used in the tests and the rate of precipitation with which it falls on the test specimen. In connection with the latter, a study of suitable methods for applying the water to the test specimen may well be an area for investigation, particularly for use in wet flashover or holding tests on extra high voltage insulation."
"The most significant change that has taken place in the field of control in recent years has been the appearance of the digital component. The ability of the digital computer to handle and process data quickly and accurately has been the main reason for incorporating digital devices into modern high-performance control systems. The exceptional requirements demanded from today's control systems in the defense area have prompted the development of a large variety of digital components for use in closed loop control systems for defense applications."
"One definition of the word “philosophy” given by Webster's dictionary is “the body of principles underlying a given branch of learning or major discipline.“ In this paper the authors attempt to establish the philosophy, according to this definition, of applying digital computers to the design of electric apparatus. Although the authors' experience has been mainly in the field of power transformers, special-purpose transformers, and current-limiting reactors, they have followed closely similar applications to other types of electric apparatus, notably distribution transformers, medium transformers, and rotating machines. Because of this, and in view of the unity of the science and art of electrical design, it is felt that the concepts and conclusions developed in the paper will be generally valid for the broad class of electric apparatus."
"Quite deservedly, magnetic amplifiers have been given very wide publicity.1‾10 While much attention has been focused on the saturable reactor as a vital part, if not the only part, of a magnetic amplifier, the usefulness of the saturable reactor for other functions than amplification is not as widely appreciated."
"Elias has described a coding system which consists essentially of iterating the Hamming code1 and has obtained estimates of the probability of error after each iteration on the assumption that each set of check bits is used once and then discarded. It seemed that the first set of check bits could be reused profitably after some errors were corrected with the second set of check bits but the analysis is seriously complicated by the interdependence of errors. Therefore an experimental study of codes of this type was made using the IBM 704. Matrices of 8 by 16, 16 by 32, and 32 by 64 bits with Hamming single-error correcting, double-error detecting codes in each column and each row, were used. Errors were introduced randomly, and the Hamming correction procedure was then applied alternately to rows and columns. The results of the experiment and some properties of the code pertinent to their discussion are described in this paper."
"Accurate timing devices are fundamentally important in both industial and military control applications. This paper deals with electric timing apparatus in which the timing sense is derived from the volt-second time integral required to saturate a saturable magnetic core. Discrete time periods may be generated on the basis of this principle. In this paper, fundamental design equations are presented and basic circuitry is described. Specific applications are discussed which make use of transistors in the switching mode. Transistors afford convenient means for operating various electric circuits as a function of the time period defined by the controlled saturation of the magnetic cores. The transistors contribute no appreciable time delay in the circuit. The problems associated with environmental variations in transistors and cores are discussed, and possible methods of compensation are presented."
"The principal objective of the work described in this paper is to develop a new method for accurately determining the capacitance associated with 2-dimensional composite regions. The term capacitance refers to the ordinary electric capacitance associated with two charged conductors. However, the method is also directly applicable to the determination of the permeance of magnetic fields, to the shape factor of thermal fields, and to other analogous situations. The term “accurately determining” indicates determination of the capacitance with errors in the order of one part in 1,000. While such accuracy has been claimed for certain electrolytic tank analog methods1 it is usually possible only after careful attention is given to each source of error. Such errors can arise in both the construction and the measurements associated with the analog solution. In the present method electrically conducting paper models, much easier to construct, are used and only ordinary care is required in the measurement techniques. The usual errors encountered in the use of such paper models, amounting to several per cent, are avoided by utilizing analytical methods to obtain a first approximation amounting to perhaps 90% of the final result, and using the paper analogs to determine the other 10%. Thus, the error in the final result will be in the order of a few per cent of, say, 10% or in the order of a few tenths of 1%."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"At the Eta Kappa Nu Award dinner, Dr. Engstrom pointed up the need for a long-range training program, rather than a crash program, for supplying our national scientist-engineer needs."
"NEARLY ALL surge or impulse voltage measurements involve the use of a cathode ray oscillograph (CRO) and measuring cable. All cables have a certain amount of attenuation and their surge impedance is never the same for all frequencies as indicated in several studies. In low-voltage impulse work (where very short cables can be used) such factors may be negligible under certain conditions, but for measuring high-voltage surges, a fairly long cable (50 feet or longer) is usually required and possible errors caused by the cable should be considered, especially for measuring steeply rising surges. The purpose of this paper is to discuss such errors and devise method for measuring and minimizing them."
"Every means possible should be employed to avoid the unnecessary use of human activity in high-speed electronic computing operations. Certain aspects of experimental psychology appropriate to entering the machine domain are discussed."
"AS SHIPBOARD POWER DEMANDS have increased, it has been necessary to install more and larger generators aboard ship. It has been found that the most reliable and flexible system can be attained by arranging the bus ties in such a manner that they form a closed loop if all bus tie circuit breakers were closed. This arrangement can result in potential fault currents well over the maximum interrupting capacity of the available circuit breakers if all generators were operated in parallel. Therefore, it is necessary that the ship's service power plant be split in such a manner at all times so that the fault current will be within the capacity of the circuit breakers. Interrupting capacity of the U. S. Navy's largest circuit breakers has been increased to 100,000 amperes. This rating determines maximum numbers of generators that can be operated in parallel. On ships with eight 1,500-kw generator sets, only three generators may be operated in parallel at one time. With three generators operating in parallel, the rms fault current for the first half cycle in the phase carrying the maximum asymmetrical current is 86,000 amperes at the generator distribution switchboard and 62,000 amperes at the load center switchboards."
"Technological progress can be reflected, fundamentally, by a country's level of competence in measurement techniques. The USSR's progress in this field is a challenge that, if ignored, could be instrumental in undermining world freeenterprise economy status. Thus, in the race for technological supremacy, the role of the U. S. National Bureau of Standards is vital."
"POWER COMPANIES operating in areas subjected to air-borne contamination have, for many years, been faced with a difficult operating problem. Maintenance of satisfactory operation has required that insulators be cleaned periodically by hand wiping or periodic washing (energized or de-energized). Expensive overinsulation is frequently employed to alleviate partially the effects of surface contamination."
"Reliable propagation curves and data are needed to permit more accurate predictions of useful field strengths within the service ranges of television stations and the strength of interfering signals from other stations. This work is the responsibility of TASO Panel 4."
"A DEFINITE TREND has been indicated toward higher subtransmission voltages to meet increasing load demands in certain metropolitan areas. High-voltage metal-enclosed isolated-phase bus structures offer a practical and economical solution to the bus and switching needs at these higher voltages and have many advantages such as simplification of arrangement, greater flexibility, and greater safety. Following this trend, the Consolidated Edison Company of New York installed a 138-kv metal-enclosed isolated-phase bus and switching structure at their East River plant. The bus structure provides for four 138-kv incoming circuits and six 69-kv circuits. Limited space made it necessary to mount the equipment at several levels (Fig. 1)."
"“Person to person” type of instruction is made possible by the use of a radio rather thafi a video frequency distribution system. This also permits use of modulated carrier controls which greatly increases the flexibility of the presentation."
"IN A TELEPHONE SYSTEM, one of the main factors affecting quality of service is received volume. For particular talker volume distributions and listener hearing ability, this volume is determined by circuit losses between telephones and by the set efficiencies."
"The electric utility industry for a number of years has been investigating the problem of overvoltages caused by switching surges. Valuable and necessary to these investigations are firsthand reports from operating utilities. An experience of the Pennsylvania Power & Light Co., involving damage which occurred during switching on a 220-kv system, is described."
"The development of metallic rectifiers has resulted in the increased use of rectifiers in the place of motor-generators as d-c power sources on ships having a-c plants. The characteristics, applications, and advantages of these rectifiers are discussed."
"THE MAGNETIC AIR CIRCUIT BREAKER, during the past two decades, has become a most effective and widely used circuit-interrupting device. The need for increased ratings in magnetic air circuit breakers has required critical studies of and improvements in the various factors involved in the interrupting process in these devices. One important factor, the magnetic field, has been improved in a number of ways, but the inherently large leakage flux has not been appreciably affected by these improvements. Studies made on such a-c energized magnetic field structures indicated that the total leakage flux was 50% or more of the total flux emerging from the magnet core."
"The era of high-speed nuclear propelled aircraft and missiles demands electronic equipment that can withstand intense nuclear radiation as well as much higher ambient temperatures than the 125 C required of equipment in current use. Major technological advances must be made in design and manufacture to realize these goals."
"STUDENT MEETINGS in electrical engineering have been an integral part of the curriculum since the beginning of the electrical engineering department at the University of Dayton in 1915. They are still held on a weekly basis. These meetings received national recognition by the Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE) in 1948 and in May 1953 a Joint AIEE–IRE Student Branch was formed. J. N. Yakura is counselor for the Branch. The Student Branch has been active annually in helping the National Airborne Electronics Conference. Juniors and seniors serve as monitors. The seniors served as well at last year's combined AIEE East Central and Middle Eastern District Meeting in May 1957. The University's Albert Emanual Library is shown at the right."
"THANK YOU for the invitation to come here and talk to you today. It is a privilege and a rare opportunity to talk to such a large group of men who, as engineers, devote their lives to making and improving products which serve mankind."
"WHEN, after only a brief stay in India, I write about Indian engineering education, it must be recognized that I do this only to address fellow engineers who have not had even that experience. Perhaps the brevity of my Indian experience will even help me to write in terms of the interest of the audience whom I address—I can so well remember what would have been new to me only two years ago. This introduction is, more than anything else, a disclaimer of my being, even remotely, an authority on the subject of which I write."
"“Membership in the AIEE is a very important facet of my professional life. Being an electrical engineer engaged in the electronics field generally, and in the communications area specifically, and even more specifically the mobile communications field, it would be very easy to be interested solely in organizations that are directed at the immediate area of interest. However, the AIEE, because of its broad interests serves as the link that ties together a multitude of highly specialized branches of electrical engineering. It provides the practicing engineer with a means for keeping abreast of major progress in the entire field of electrical engineering. As the art of applying and controlling electrical energy advances, the need for interchange of information between fields becomes ever more important.”"
"The 5th Annual Conference for Engineers and Architects-known as ACE Day-sponsored by the Ohio State University (OSU) College of Engineering, is scheduled for May 2, 1958, on the Columbus, Ohio, campus."
"A program which gives students an opportunity to become acquainted with a Government research laboratory during their summer vacation periods is helping the National Bureau of Standards (NBS) to meet its increasing demand for high-caliber technical graduates. Having discovered for themselves the advantages of a professional career at NBS, 174 of 1957's record enrollment are maintaining NBS affiliation: of the 236 students employed at the Washington (D.C.) laboratories in the past summer, 44 are still on full- or part-time duty, and 130 who plan to return to NBS have been granted leave without pay to continue their education. One half of the 208 students employed in 1956 were included in last summer's program. Another 57 had remained on duty permanently. The program, inaugurated in 1948, was extended to the NBS laboratories in Boulder, Colo., in 1956, where it has already resulted in a number of permanent appointments."
"Nine Institutes on Nuclear Energy for engineering educators will be held throughout the United States this summer under the sponsorship of the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) and the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE)."
"A plan, submitted by The American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE), to increase the number of young teachers for engineering schools of the United States has been presented to Dr. J. R. Killian, Jr., Pres. Eisenhower's Special Assistant for Science and Technology."
"WASHINGTON, D.C. will again be host to the AIEE Middle Eastern District Meeting, April 28–30, 1958, with headquarters in the Sheraton Park Hotel. “Engineering in the Nation's Capital” has been selected as the theme of the meeting which will feature technical sessions of interest to everyone. Social events will be outstanding. Inspection trips of unusual interest have been arranged."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE 1958 Great Lakes District Meeting of the AIEE will be held May 5–7 at the Kellogg Center for Continuing Education on the Michigan State University Campus, East Lansing, Mich. All meetings, luncheons, and dinners will be held in the Kellogg Center which is a modern, wellplanned conference center complete with living accommodations."
"THE 1958 AIEE Winter General Meeting, held in New York, N. Y., February 2–7, at the Statler and Sheraton-McAlpin Hotels, set records in attendance, and in number and variety of technical sessions and papers presented. Total attendance of members and guests was 5,340, a figure which exceeded the previous high of 5,036 set in 1956. There were aproximately 450 papers read at 110 technical sessions. A noteworthy feature of the meeting was the record number of students present."
"THE Board of Directors of AIEE met as usual during the Winter General Meeting in New York, N.Y., on February 7, 1958. All members, except two Directors were present. Five nominees for the 1958–59 Board, whose names were announced by the Nominating Committee on February 3, were also present by special invitation. The resignation of E. S. Lammers, Jr., now of Gainesville, Fla., was accepted with regret; and E. C. Starr, Portland, Oreg., one of the nominees, was elected to fill the unexpired term of six months."
"PROMINENT among the many important items on the agenda of the Section Representatives Meeting, held Tuesday, February 4, 1958, during the AIEE Winter General Meeting, was the announcement of the formation of the new Northeastern Wisconsin Section-the 112th Section of the Institute."
"AIEE PRESIDENT W. J. Barrett has appointed Dr. L. M. Goldsmith (F '47) of the Atlantic Refining Company, Philadelphia, Pa., as chairman of the AIEE Member-Gifts Campaign for the new United Engineering Center to be erected on United Nations Plaza in New York City."
"THE BEST ATTENDED Eta Kappa Nu Recognition Awards Dinner in many years was held at the Cornish Arms Hotel, New York, N. Y., February 3, 1958. The award bowl which remains on permanent display in the Trophy Room of the AIEE was presented to R. P. Crago, who was chosen the outstanding young electrical engineer of the year, and honorable mention certificates were given to Dr. W. R. Beam and G. W. Stagg. R. I. Wilkinson was presented with a plaque bearing the citation, “In tribute to his initiative in creating and developing the Eta Kappa Nu Recognition of outstanding young electrical engineers.” President C. T. Koerner of Eta Kappa Nu presided and introduced the speakers."
"THE East Central District Meeting of AIEE will be held in Huntington, W. Va., May 13–15, 1958. Huntington, the largest city of West Virginia, is located on the Ohio River at the tri-state area of Kentucky, Ohio, and West Virginia. In this area, known as the Central Ohio Valley, industry has a great future in metallurgy, chemistry, and mining, as well as in many other fields. Located in this well-developed area are many recreational parks, swimming pools, golf courses, and camping, fishing, and hunting areas. Also offered are many cultural advantages."
"At its meeting held February 3, 1958, the AIEE Nominating Committee selected the following officiai nominees for election to Institute offices for terms beginning August 1, 1958."
"The Maryland Section of AIEE will be host to the National Telemetering Conference in June 1958. Sponsored by the AIEE, American Rocket Society (ARS), Instrument Society of America (ISA), and Institute of Aeronautical Sciences (IAS), the 1958 National Telemetering Conference will be held June 2–4, at the Lord Baltimore Hotel in Baltimore, Md."
"SPANRAD (superimposed panoramic radar display) combines radar display and operations board image on same television picture tube. Overhead box contains Vidicon television pickup for obtaining image of board. Scan conversion permits daylight viewing of transformed radar information on convenventional television receiver."
"SCAN CONVERSION EQUIPMENT takes conventional radar information and converts it into a composite television signal permitting direct viewing on a conventional television receiver. The advantages of a scan converter over the conventional plan position indicator (PPI) radar display are detailed."
"ABOUT 15 YEARS AGO, electrolytes were used to deposit phosphor on the screen of a cathode-ray tube by a liquidsettling technique. Using newly developed techniques, General Electric Company (GE) scientists are now able to deposit on the face of a tube a phosphor that is approximately 1 or 2 microns thick-a transparent film."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Ability of precision electronic components to work perfectly after shattering explosion and impact in test flights of long-range missiles was confirmed recently by scientists."
"A class of magnetic oxides, structurally distinct from ferrites, has recently been discovered. These materials, known as rare-earth-iron garnets, are transparent, permitting the internal magnetic domain structure to be seen with a polarizing microscope."
"For years, scientists and engineers have had to rely on commercial processing laboratories for the development of 16-mm and 35-mm motion picture recording films. Delays of hours, days, and even weeks occurred between the time of exposure and the return of the processed film from the laboratory. In many cases, this delay either made the films obsolete or showed an error in the original set-up which required complete reshooting."
"In a series of releases from the U. S. Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) and the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority (UKAEA), background information has been supplied about the work being done by the Los Alamos and British groups which deal with electrical discharges carrying high momentary currents."
"A recently acquired painting of an electrical grandfather at the Burndy Library is presented. The 1838 painting has been submitted for identification to British and American authorities, all of whom have been unable to identify the personage in the picture. The baffling part is the fact that obviously the gentleman is an important person in the electrical field, inasmuch as he is shown with a Leyden jar held in his left hand and a Henley electrometer in his right hand. The Burndy Library, Norwalk, CT, USA, has turned to Electrical Engineering to help in solving this mystery. It is hoped that a reader may know the man as an ancestor, or be able to identify him by other means. The portrait represents an early experimenter in the then newly established field of electrical science. His identity remains unknown. By publishing this portrait, it is hoped that it may lead to establishing the correct identity of the subject. The name of the artist, Thomas H. Gregg, appears in three different locations on the painting, but no clue is given or has been found as to who the sitter might be."
"The “Space Sentry,” a giant new radio transmitter of the U. S. Army Signal Corps, bounced signals from the moon to insure close tracking of the Army's Explorer and other United States satellites which may be projected, the Department of Defense has announced."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, doublespaced, not carbon copies. Illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy and inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Service Datalizer. A pocket-size slide rule, condensing information normally found in more than 50 instruction books, has been devised by General Electric's (GE) Communication Products Department, Electronics Park, Syracuse, N.Y., for servicemen maintaining two-way radio systems. The Datalizer provides information on correct tuning, meter types, meter readings which normally occur in the transmitter and receiver during tuning, power supply information, and other data on two-way equipment manufactured by GE. The device is available for $1.50 from the company's independent authorized service stations located throughout the country, or from the GE Communication Products Service Parts organization."
"Kart-O-Matic Equipment. This new equipment simplifies transporting and winding in the cable and wire rope fields. Ideal for re-reeling cable from one reel to another, the power drive used on Kart-O-Matics can be used on the Marion Coiler Stand and also for pulling cable through conduits and threading pipe. Two models are available: Kit No. 1032 and Kit No. 1042. Free literature is available from the manufacturer. Write Weber Electric Manufacturing Co., Inc., 15224 Kercheval, Detroit 30, Mich."
"Ship Dehumidification Bulletin. Now available is Bulletin R-30, Ship Dehumidification Systems. Other bulletins available are Bulletin DS-1, Dehumidified Storage, and Bulletin R-ll-B, Desomatic Driline Pressure Dehumidifiers. Write to Desomatic Products, Inc., 1109 W. Broad St., Falls Church, Va."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"First part of a two-part article on education and research in the USSR. Based on Lenin's conviction that “you cannot build a Communist State with illiterate people,” the Soviet Union has, since Tsarist days, made a tremendous effort to build up a pool of professional and technical manpower to “catch up” with and then surpass the capitalistic countries."
"The Engineering Foundation's Board of Directors is anxious to make its activities better known and understood. Greater participation by AIEE is sought."
"UNTIL RECENTLY, the reserve requirements of a power system have been calculated either by applying a given percentage of reserve, or by counting on the outage of one or two of the largest machines. These standards generally are justified by the fact that satisfactory service has been obtained in the past by following them. Whether these rule-of-thumb standards will be valid under the conditions of the future is questionable, because the proportions of machine sizes to system size, as well as other characteristics that affect the required amount of reserve, can change considerably as time goes on. It is desirable to express a standard of service on a mathematical basis. Then all the factors that influence the standard can be analyzed separately, and any future system can be tested to see whether its service standard is equal to the present one."
"THE EXCELLENT SUITABILITY and fine performance of the magnetic amplifier in applications requiring ruggedness and reliability have led to increasing use of this device as a control component. From this situation arises a need for information and methods to be used in the design of the magnetic amplifier as a system component. With this background, an effort is directed toward presenting an organized collection of data which may be used in a practical step-by-step manner to design the toroidal magnetic amplifier. Although emphasis is given to the single-ended, full-wave, single-phase circuits, some approximate equivalence factors have been given for various other circuits. The scope is limited to the self-saturating type magnetic amplifiers. These techniques are arranged to save the component designer's time and thus expedite the engineering of magnetic amplifiers."
"THE MULTITUDE of different applications and performance requirements which have arisen for the magnetic amplifier produce a need for a quick and effective design technique. Specifically, a simple and practical approach to the design of self-saturating full-wave magnetic amplifiers may be found useful. This second, and last, part of the paper is concerned with the winding layout and winding design in amplifiers having toroidal construction."
"Report of a panel discussion on the present and potential applications of computers in feedback control systems. The extent of the influence of computers on control concepts and some of the obstacles to more extensive use of computers in control systems are discussed."
"IT IS HIGHLY DESIRABLE to improve the accuracy of measurement of transformer iron and copper losses. Unless accurate measurements are available, it is difficult to evaluate the benefit of modifications in processes and constructions intended to reduce the winding eddy losses, stray losses in the tanks, and the iron loss."
"IN DESIGNING electrical circuits it is often important to know the bounds of the magnitude and phase of impedance networks. For example, it is necessary to know impedance variations when designing devices to drive these networks. The effect of variations on gain and phase of transfer functions is particularly important in closed loop servo systems for stability considerations. A method is suggested which will determine precisely the effect of component tolerances and frequency variations on the magnitude and phase of transfer functions. Conversely, allowable tolerances can be set on these quantities."
"IN THE DESIGN of electrical layouts, there is a constant effort toward improvement, coupled with a desire to obtain improvements at less cost or with no increase in cost. The value of new materials is continually being checked, and the application of new equipment and new ideas are constantly being studied and evaluated. Things new will always offer the greatest opportunities for progress and for failure. It is proper, then, that caution be exercised in initiating the use of new things; but we must stand ready to accept them, use them, and improve them when their value has been established."
"Equipment and components to be used in modern aircraft and missiles must be capable of operating at extremely high temperatures. Experimental work has been performed to determine quantitatively the effects of temperature on magnetic materials, in order to obtain data which will be valuable in the design of plate and filament transformers and reactors."
"FOR MANY YEARS, current-limiting reactor manufacturers have been showing on outline drawings dimensions for distance to magnetic materials. Instruction leaflets define magnetic materials as “… I-beams, channels, plates, and other steel structures hidden or exposed. Steel reinforcing rods not over 3/4 inch in diameter which do not form a complete electric circuit are not considered magnetic material.” Warning is given that conducting loops which enclose flux act as the short-circuited secondary winding of a transformer. The clearances to magnetic materials shown in Fig. 1 are sufficient to keep magnetic saturation losses low enough so parts will not exceed 30 C rise. However, clearances do not permit constructing the cell to form a closed circuit about the reactor; nor are they great enough to permit use of high conductivity metals. The construction in Fig. 1 of an all-metal cell is not recommended unless the coils are magnetically shielded. Consider a 5%, 400 ampere feeder reactor having 40 turns of conductor placed in such a cell. From Fig. 2, we can approximate wall currents in the cell. For 20 times normal current, the coil would develop 400 × 40 × 20 = 320,000 ampere turns plus the possibility that the first half cycle would be fully offset to increase the ampere turns to 512,000 rms. For W/d = 2 we find the current in the cell wall will be 6.4% for aluminum (32,700 amperes); 2.4% for 11 microhm magnetic steel, 3,200 amperes per sq. in. (12,300 amperes); 0.66% for 70 microhm nonmagnetic metal (3,400 amperes). The aluminum cell would probably be blown open. The magnetic and nonmagnetic steel cells might also be opened, depending on how many and how tightly the bolts were drawn up that fasten the side sheets to the framing. At normal reactor current, the aluminum cell wall would have 6.4% of normal ampere turns (1,024 amperes); the current density in the magnetic steel would make its ampere turns the same as the 70 microhm nonmagnetic 0.66% (106 amperes). None of the foregoing cells would have excessive heating at normal current but, under fault conditions, they might prove to be dangerous. Insulated joint or magnetic shielded construction should be used."
"Vacuum switches have had an excellent performance record in applications to which they have been assigned. However, because of their rapid development and acceptance, numerous questions and misconceptions about them have arisen. An attempt is made to provide information which will help to overcome this problem."
"A fully automatic, world-wide switching system is being engineered by Western Union for the United States Air Force to meet the need for rapid and secure transmission of large volumes of military traffic over a world-wide network."
"Because of the considerable time savings achieved, the digital computer has been found to be advantageous in the calculation of train performance and locomotive tonnage ratings. These calculations are essential in the determination of potential purchases and utilization of locomotives and other railroad equipment, as well as investment in track improvements."
"ON APRIL 14, 1955, the Board of Directors authorized the establishment of the first Student Affiliate Branch of the AIEE at Lamar State College of Technology in Beaumont, Texas. At that time, the department numbered 133 students with 9 seniors and 3 staff members. Of this number, 46 held student memberships in AIEE. Prof. L. B. Cherry, head of the electrical engineering department, was named counselor. Today, the department numbers 272 students with 39 seniors and 6 staff members. Of this number, 52 are student members of AIEE. The present counselor is Asst. Prof. J. L. Cooke. The activity of the Branch is indicated by the fact that for the past two successive years they have won the plaque awarded by the local branch of the Texas Society of Professional Engineers to the department having the best Engineers' Day exhibit."
"AMERICAN engineering colleges-already carrying on nearly half of the governmentsponsored basic research in engineering now under way in the United Statescalled recently for expanded national support for fundamental research and promised to assume even greater responsibilities for its success."
"Three southern states-Georgia, South Carolina, and Tennessee-are spearheading a plan to stimulate science teaching in their schools by sending specially trained “traveling teachers” on lecture-demonstration tours."
"“Engineering is by nature a teamwork profession. Each member of the profession needs association with other engineers for a successful career. The founding fathers in 1884 included in their rules for the AIEE the significant statement that its objectives would be achieved 'by means of meetings for social intercourse, the reading and discussions of professional papers, and their circulation, by means of publications among its members and associates, of the information thus obtained.' The wisdom of this recognition of the basic need for social intercourse among engineers to promote effectiveness of group activities has been shown by the successful record of the Institute."
"Student Members of the Joint AIEE-Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE) Branch at Washington University recently honored Prof. P. M. Honnell, with a banquet and the presentation of a plaque. While the occasion was initiated by the fact that Prof. Honnell has recently received triple honors-the Marconi Premium prize from The British Institution of Radio Engineers for the “… most outstanding paper of an engineering nature published in Journal (British IRE) during 1956,” a fellowship in the AIEE for “… his contributions to electrical engineering in the fields of research and education,” and a fellowship in IRE for “… distinguished teaching and research in applied electronics”-it was also to recognize his contributions to education in the electrical engineering department at Washington University, St. Louis, Mo., and his important fundamental researches which, as yet, have not received specific recognition generally. (For a biographical sketch of Prof. Honnell, see Electrical Engineering, February 1958, p. 177.)"
"Nearly 50,000 persons have benefited by the provisions of the United States Information and Educational Exchange Act of 1948 during the decade that it has been in operation. Sponsored by Sen. H. A. Smith and Rep. (now Senator) K. E. Mundt, this act became effective 10 years ago on January 27, creating permanent authority for a global program of international exchanges, administered by the Department of State."
"THE 1958 National Telemetering Conference will be held June 2–4 at the Lord Baltimore Hotel, Baltimore, Md. It is being sponsored by the AIEE, the American Rocket Society (ARS), the Instrument Society of America (ISA), and the Institute of Aeronautical Sciences (IAS), and is supported by the National Academy of Sciences and the U.S. Armed Forces. The program will include sessions on systems, data processing, components, and equipment, and research associated with oceanography, astronomy, cosmic ray studies, and rocketry."
"THE UNITED STATES, one of 33 countries represented by national committees or local representatives, continues to take an active part in the technical and administrative affairs of the Commission Internationale de l'Eclairage (CIE). The more than 70 members of the United States National Committee (USNC) include representatives of 7 constituent societies-AIEE, American Physical Society, Association of Edison Illuminating Companies, Illuminating Engineering Society, Optical Society of America, Society of Automotive Engineers, Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers-the National Bureau of Standards, delegates to the last CIE sessions, and members-atlarge."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"HUNTINGTON, W. VA., is the site of the AIEE East Central District No. 11 Meeting May 13–15, 1958."
"THE PROGRAM of the Western Joint Computer Conference, to be held at the Ambassador Hotel in Los Angeles, Calif., May 6–8, 1958, has been released by Conference chairman W. H. Ware of The Rand Corporation. Under the general theme of “Contrasts in Computers,” the Conference, sponsored by AIEE, Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE), and the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), will present 12 sessions during 3 days, divided equally between panel discussions of controversial aspects of computer design and application and technical sessions devoted to individual papers. In addition, an opening panel session under the chairmanship of H. T. Larson of Aeronutronic Systems, Inc., will explore “The Social Problems of Automation,” with H. P. Lasswell, professor of law and political science, Yale School of Law; O. A. Knight, president of the Oil, Chemical, and Atomic Workers' International Union; and C. C. Hurd, director of automation research, International Business Machines Corporation (IBM), discussing the broad social problems arising from the introduction of computers and related automatic techniques into our industrial society."
"BEGINNING June 23 and running through June 27, the 1958 AIEE Summei General Meeting will be held in Buffalo, N. Y. Headquarters will be at the Statler-Hilton Hotel, centrally located in downtown Buffalo. The city of Buffalo, uniquely located astride the busy terminal of 11 major railroads, is a focal point of the great billion dollar New York State Thruway, and the gateway to industrial Canada."
"The University of Vermont, Burlington, Vt., and the Vermont Subsection of the AIEE will sponsor a Symposium on Computer and Electrical Systems, May 15–16, 1958."
"At a meeting of the Michigan Section of AIEE on February 11, 1958, Michigan State Highway Commissioner J. C. Mackie spoke to 85 members and guests of the Section assembled at the Jackson Country Club."
"Conference papers listed below have been accepted for AIEE Transactions and are now open for written discussion until May 27. Duplicate double spaced typewritten copies of each discussion should be sent to E. C. Day, Assistant Secretary for Technical Papers, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, 33 West 39th St., New York 18, N. Y., on or before May 27"
"ELECTRONIC WELDERS peer through microscopes to manufacture millions of semiconductors annually in their work at the semiconductor manufacturing plant of Hughes Aircraft Company in Los Angeles. Components to be welded are so small that operation must be observed under high magnification."
"SILICON is one of the most plentiful elements on earth. It was isolated as an element over 125 years ago. It is interesting to note that only recently have its properties been undergoing such intense exploitation. For silicon to manifest its outstanding electrical properties, it must possess a perfect crystalline structure as well as a level of purity never before achieved in chemical substances."
"THE SUPERSONIC B-58 “Hustler”-the world's fastest bomber-was developed for the U.S. Air Force for the primary mission of bombing and reconnaissance by the Fort Worth, Texas, plant of the Convair Division of General Dynamics Corporation."
"AMERICAN INDUSTRY is keenly aware of the problem of air pollution and spends hundreds of millions of dollars per year to reduce pollution. Many types of equipment are used from mechanical collectors through cyclone-type collectors to high-efficiency electrostatic precipitators. Although mechanical collectors remove larger and heavier particles from industrial gases, electrostatic precipitation is required to remove particles of small size from 0.1 to 40 microns."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Several unusual uses of the versatile helicopter have been reported by Southern California Edison Company (SCE)."
"Another weapon in the fight against cancer and allied diseases, being tested by the Medical Division of the Oak Ridge Institute of Nuclear Studies (ORINS), is a new, double-headed radiation-teletherapy device, using two 650-curie sources of radioactive cobalt-60, thus bringing a total of 1,300 curies to bear on diseased tissue within a patient's body"
"Achievement of gyroscope systems for stabilizing and guiding missiles, aircraft, and sea vessels has been made possible by development of “frictionless” gyros with near perfect preciseness. This development of Sperry Gyroscope Company located in Great Neck, L. I., New York, hinges on a unique method for controlling ball bearings within “simple” gyroscopes."
"The Airways Modernization Board (AMB) is interested in the further development of the en route portion of its experimental semiautomatic data processing system for air traffic control and has asked General Precision Laboratory, Inc., Pleasantville, N. Y., a subsidiary of General Precision Equipment Corp., to undertake this job."
"A 6.4-inch satellite sphere was fired into orbit by U. S. Navy scientists working on the International Geophysical Year (IGY) Project Vanguard."
"Density Measurement System. An Accu-Ray density system which measures and/or controls fluid density, specific gravity, percent solids, or related quantity has been announced by Industrial Nucleonics Corporation, 1205 Chesapeake Ave., Columbus, Ohio. This new density unit is applicable to liquids, slurries, and flaked, granulated, powdered, or other divided solids. Based on the principles of gamma ray transmission from a radiosotope, the system makes no physical contact with the flowing material. Measurements are also independent of flow rate and pressure. Circle 201 on the card."
"Eagle Electric Expands. The manufacturers of the OK Fuse Plugs and over 1,500 other electrical wiring devices and specialties, has further enlarged its facilities. Eagle Electric, 23–10 Bridge Plaza S., Long Island City 1, N. Y., has just purchased the entire assets of the Ma toi Corp., Tilton, N. H., for the manufacture of metal socket shells and caps. They also acquired the automatic screw machine department of the Chase Brass & Copper Co., Waterbury Manufacturing Co. Division, Waterbury, Conn., and the Bottom Turn Knob Socket Division, Alcor Manufacturing Co., Chicago, Ill."
"Fireless Steam Cleaner Bulletin. A free 2-page bulletin describing a fireless steam cleaner, is being offered by Kelite Corporation, 81 Industrial Rd., Berkeley Heights, N. J. The bulletin describes how the Kelite fireless, which is less expensive than comparable direct-fired steam cleaners, uses live steam from an existing steam supply, thus providing the efficient cleaning power of high-volume steam cleaners. Interested readers should ask for Bulletin P-7578."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"In this second and concluding article, the authors survey the research facilities and note the extreme importance the USSR places on electrical engineering research and scientific education of the populace as a whole."
"THE NEW PRINTING DEMAND METER illustrated in Fig. 1 was designed to provide the needed long life meter which could more accurately measure and permanently record electrical demand information. Accuracy compatible to that of the watt-hour meter, which acts as the primary sensing device and impulse generator for the printing demand meter, is a design feature of the new printing demand meter."
"A description is presented of a selective control system that is economically attractive and flexible enough to permit centralized, fail-safe control and supervision of certain facilities of right-of-way companies."
"Engineering, along with medicine and law, is a profession entrusted primarily with responsibilities incident to activities dealing with the protection of life, health, rights, and property. Registration of all eligible engineers as Professional Engineers is important not only to the individual engineer, but also to the prestige of the profession."
"MANY TRANSFORMERS are called upon to supply varying loads in normal service. In some cases these loads are cyclic in nature. After one or more cycles the thermal response of the oil and windings will also follow a repetitive cycle."
"The nature and quality of the information and needs of the researcher are important factors in the efficient use of retrieval tools. Their potentialities and limitations in the art of information searching are reviewed."
"Electrical drive equipment has played a large role in modern textile machinery. The advantages of a-c group drives over d-c drives are presented with several examples given."
"A TURBINE loaded at a valve point, that is just before the next valve opens, is working at maximum efficiency at that loading. A turbine operating off a valve point is operating less efficiently because of the throttling of the steam passing through the throttled control valve."
"Rapid expansion of radio relay facilities requires the development of new radio relay systems in the higher frequency bands assigned by the FCC for common-carrier use. To help meet this need, a horn-reflector antenna was developed. Its application, transmission characteristics, and general design requirements are set forth."
"THE MEASUREMENT of steep-front impulse waves presents problems seldom encountered in ordinary 1 1/2 × 40 microsecond impulse wave testing. The problem consists of obtaining linearly rising steep-front voltage oscillograms which faithfully reproduced, to a known scale, the voltage wave as seen by the test specimen. Stray or residual divider parameters, as well as the methods used in grounding, shielding, supplying power, and synchronizing the oscilloscope, may introduce spurious responses into the voltage oscillograms."
"This article discusses a reliability handbook which has been specially prepared to aid guided missile electronics design engineers. The major section of the handbook explains methods for designing reliability into equipment by the adherence to certain “ground rules.” Emphasis is placed on the use of statistical techniques."
"THE PRINCIPAL OBJECTIVE of the work described in this paper is as follows: to develop a new method for accurately determining the capacitance associated with two-dimensional composite regions. The term capacitance refers to the ordinary electric capacitance associated with two charged conductors. However, the method is also directly applicable to the determination of the permeance of magnetic fields, the shape factor of thermal fields and to other analogous situations. “Accurately determine” is taken to mean determination of the capacitance with errors in the order of one part in one thousand. Although such accuracy has been claimed for certain electrolytic tank analog methods, it is usually possible only after careful attention is given to each source of error. Such errors can arise in both the construction and the measurements associated with the analog solution. In the present method, electrically conducting paper models, much easier to construct, are used and only ordinary care is required in the measurement techniques. The usual errors encountered in the use of such paper models, amounting to several per cent, are avoided by utilizing analytical methods to obtain a first approximation amounting to perhaps 90% of the final result, and using the paper analogs to determine the other 10%. Thus, the error in the final result will be in the order of a few per cents, of say 10%, or in the order of a few tenths of 1%."
"Although it is theoretically possible to make rectifiers out of nine IIIB-VA compounds, the three compounds, InP, GaAs, and AISb are the most promising. These three compounds offer fabrication difficulties but their challenge has already been met with practical techniques."
"IN RECENT YEARS, there has been a strong trend toward the presentation of information to the human observer by means of digital rather than analog instrumentation. The significance of this trend is evidenced by the availability of a growing selection of alphanumeric display devices such as digital voltmeters and counters."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"TULSA, oil capital of the world and center of the “Magic Empire” region of Northeastern Oklahoma, was host to the AIEE Southwest District Meeting, March 31-April 2, 1958"
"“INDUSTRIALIZING THE ATOM” was the theme of the 1958 Nuclear Congress, held March 17–21 in Chicago, Ill. The Congress, sponsored by 31 leading engineering, scientific, and management groups and co-ordinated by the Engineers Joint Council, consisted of the 4th Nuclear Engineering and Science Conference, the Atomic Energy Management Conference, the 6th Hot Laboratories and Equipment Conference, and the Atomic Industrial Forum Atomfair"
"AS ANNOUNCED in Electrical Engi neering, February 1958, p. 173, the translations of four leading Soviet scientific and engineering journals in the field of power transmission, communications, and electronics are now available by ar rangement with the Pergamon Institute, a nonprofit organization."
"The Charles LeGeyt Fortescue Fellowship Committee of the Institute has awarded a fellowship for graduate study in electrical engineering during the academic year 1958–59 to T. J. Harley, Jr."
"The Fourth Annual Conference on Electrical Engineering as Applied to the Pulp and Paper Industry, held March 27–28, 1958, in Riddick Engineering Building on the campus of North Carolina State College, Raleigh, N. C, was attended by 125 electrical engineers from the mills and allied industries. Attendance was from widespread areas and included mill electrical engineers from as far away as Maine, Minnesota, and Texas."
"William Fremont Dunkle (AM '24, M '47), chief of electrical tests, Pennsylvania Power & Light Co., Hazleton, Pa., has been transferred to the grade of Fellow in the AIEE “… for contributions to electrical system testing techniques particularly in the field of dielectrics.” Mr. Dunkle was born in Beech Creek, Pa., October 17, 1896. He received the degree of E.E. from the University of Cincinnati under its co-operative system -in 1923. He interrupted his education to volunteer for service in the U.S. Army where he received a commission. Following graduation and employment with Union Gas & Electric Co. of Cincinnati, he accepted employment with Pennsylvania Power & Light Co. in 1924, where he became chief of electrical tests in 1927. Mr. Dunkle has developed policies, methods, schedules, and test equipment putting electrical testing on a production basis. His research has been in the field of insulation quality control and instrumentation for evaluating ground systems. Mr. Dunkle has served on all Lehigh Valley Section Committees and currently is the Section chairman. He was chairman of District No. 2 Prize Paper Committee, 1953, and vice-chairman of District No. 2 Meetings and Papers in 1954. A member of the Dielectric Tests Subcommittee and Measurements on Dielectrics Subcommittee, he is chairman of two working groups, one of which has developed insulation power factor test codes for mineral oil-immersed transformers, and the other currently is developing performance requirements for bushings 25 through 230 kv. He has been an active member of the American Standards Association C57 Subcommittee for power and distribution since 1951. He has presented numerous papers on insulation quality control to the Lehigh Valley Section, Pennsylvania Electric Association, and Doble Client Conference, and also is the author of three Transactions papers. He is a registered professional engineer in the State of Pennsylvania and a member of Eta Kappa Nu."
"THE ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT at the Worcester Polytechnic Institute, Worcester, Mass., was established in 1893, 30 years after the founding of this engineering college. The Student Branch of the AIEE received its charter on October 14, 1925. Present Branch counselor is W. R. Grogan."
"My knowledge of technical education in India was acquired through a twoyear (1955–57) tour of duty at the University of Roorkee, Roorkee, U.P., India, under a contract between Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, NY, USA and the International Co-operation Administration, Washington, DC, USA."
"BEFORE HE RETIRED as president of Brown University, Dr. Henry M. Wriston defined the responsibilities of a dean. With his customary perception and humor, he said it was the job of the dean to make the college what the president says it already is. This suggests that our objective at this week-end conference of professors of electrical engineering is to make electrical engineering what the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE) and Engineer's Council for Professional Development (ECPD) say it is currently. This topic is one which always generates many differing opinions anyway, but we were asked to choose our remarks purposely to raise problems and questions rather than produce answers."
"FEW NATIONS TODAY can be unaware of the fact that during the past 50 years the technological application of scientific discovery and invention has yielded far greater changes in the pattern of human life and livelihood than the world has ever known before. The future of few countries could be as dependent upon the quality of their response to this challenge of change than the English and, for this reason, technical education has been and is receiving considerable attention in England at the present time. It has been recognized by the government, the local education authorities, and by industry in that country that insufficient people are being trained for responsible positions in industry."
"IMPRESSIVE CEREMONIES marked the inauguration of Dr. Ernst Weber as sixth president of the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn. Rogers Hall was dedicated in memory of the late Dr. Harry Stanley Rogers. Five honorary degrees were con ferred and an address was given by H. G. Rickover, Rear AdmiraJ, USN. Official delegates attended from practically all the great institutions of higher education."
"The AIEE Student Branch at the Illinois Institute of Technology has acquired a new meeting place—the spacious 350-seat auditorium of the recently completed electrical engineering-physics building."
"A glorified “pinball” type machine with its own electrical brain system may someday replace the professor in the college examination room, according to one educator at Union College, Schenectady, N. Y."
"Interpretation of the controversial Dead Sea Scrolls, the most exciting Biblical find in centuries, was brought.many years closer with the recent printing of the first complete index of a major portion of the 2,000 year old documents by an International Business Machines (IBM) 705 electronic computer."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"EXPLORER III, the third Army-launched United States scientific earth satellite was fired into orbit around the Earth on March 26, 1958, by use of a Jupiter C rocket developed and launched jointly by the U. S. Army Ballistic Missile Agency (ABMA), Huntsville, Ala., and the California Institute of Technology Jet Pro pulsion Laboratory (JPL), Pasadena, Calif."
"A NEW, 3,000-MILE telephone and telegraph network was put into full operation on March 26, 1958, to provide both military and public service to some of Alaska's most remote northern points."
"The Hot Laboratories Division of the Brookhaven National Laboratory would appreciate the early receipt of abstracts of papers that are to be presented at the 7th Conference on Hot Laboratories and Equipment. The abstracts are due September 15, 1958, at the latest."
"Lower manufacturing costs and greater productive efficiency result from a new system announced recently by Control Systems Company, Division of Hancock Industries, Inc., Jackson, Mich. The new system displays instantly in a central dispatch room what is happening at every machine in the production shop. A longneeded tool for manufacturing industries, the new equipment links every piece of productive machinery by means of electric wires to a central production monitor room. In the monitor room, up-to-theminute production data is provided in visual form for production control personnel. The system eliminates the need for time-consuming paperwork at all produc tion supervisory levels."
"Creation of a Federal space exploration commission with full power and resources to undertake long-range space programs has been urged by the National Society of Professional Engineers (NSPE)."
"Installation of the training, research, and isotope production reactor, called TRIGA, will take place in the Fall of 1958 on the campus of the University of Arizona (UA) at Tucson it was announced by the institution recently. The reactor was invented and developed by General Atomic Division, San Diego, Calif., of General Dynamics Corporation. It is said that the UA will be the world's first educational institution to have this multipurpose, inherently safe, 10-kw reactor."
"An “atomic clock” that could be used to guide space travelers was described at the national convention of the Institute of Radio Engineers in New York recently. The clock is being developed by engineers of International Telephone & Telegraph Corporation (IT&T) at their laboratories in New Jersey."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question"
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering, All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the back inside cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"THE HEAVY ATMOSPHERE of the present scientific, technological, and political competition for international leadership demands a dedication to clear objectives coincident with the highest ideals of our unique democracy. We might enunciate such objectives in a general way by stating that we must educate our youth for a full life in conformity with each one's ability to contribute and to enjoy."
"Reliability is a complex interplay of design, environment, test equipment, and maintenance skills amongst other influential factors. In this first part of a two-part article, practical field reliability—a result of subjective processes of predictability, assessability, education, and probability evaluation—is discussed in detail."
"FULL REALIZATION of the economic advantage associated with the use of pipe-type cable has sometimes been prevented by the lack of a joint of suitable and proved design for connecting pipe-type cable to existing low-pressure oil-filled cable lines. This problem arose anew in connection with the design of supply lines to Lombard Substation, Philadelphia (Pa.) Electric Company's newest 66/13.2-kv substation. Here the advantages of using pipe-type cable in conjunction with an existing oil-filled cable were sufficient to justify considerable effort to develop a practical method for connecting these cables. Co-ordination with high-voltage cable and accessory manufacturers resulted in the production of satisfactory stop joints, six of which are in service on the new project."
"URBAN TRANSIT MOTORS have evolved from totally enclosed to highly ventilated designs in order to keep pace with the demand for increased performance. Successive mechanical improvements permitting higher and higher speeds, and improved fan designs on self-ventilated motors have helped to provide more air flow for cooling the windings."
"The opportunities open to engineers to move into positions of management are hampered by a lack of knowledge of the requisites of leadership and ignorance of the art of human relations. Basic rules are set forth that to be effective must be put into practice until they become habit."
"THE ADVANTAGES of semiconductor diodes in certain applications of d-c power have led to the design and construction of rectifier units of very high current ratings, employing many diodes in parallel on each phase of the rectifier transformer. As in the case of mercury-arc rectifiers having more than one anode connected to each phase, the designer is faced with the problem of current unbalance between parallel elements."
"Today's engineering and manpower situation is appraised by means of information and techniques gained in the past few years. Estimates of trends based on latest available figures are presented."
"The DDA or Electronic Digital Differential Analyzer provides a simple means for programming the numerical solutions of problems which can be expressed in the form of ordinary differential equations. This includes linear and nonlinear simultaneous equations, solutions for roots of transcendental equations, and the simulation of many real systems."
"Discussion of the background and growth of the electrical industry in Mexico showing the factors that assure the area an accelerated rate of development in which electric energy is playing a key role."
"THE AN/AGC-1 is a teletypewriter that has been packaged for use aboard aircraft. It is capable of receiving or transmitting messages at 60 wpm and it contains a magnetic recorder for the storage of messages and a call system for the elimination of local traffic. Electronic techniques have been used to replace many of the mechanisms used in a standard teletypewriter."
"Commonly used in Europe, pump—turbines are finding increased use as a source of economical power in the United States. Among their numerous advantages is their applicability in many locations not suitable for conventional hydraulic turbines."
"IN THE PAST FEW YEARS a great deal of interest has developed in the analysis of nonlinear systems. Much of this has been the result of the great strides taken in the field of control systems."
"The basic theory and a procedure for the design of strictly digital systems and of digitally controlled continuous systems are outlined. In the latter type system, a continuous plant is controlled by intermittently monitored and processed error signals. For optimum design, the mean square of the error signals averaged over long periods of time should be kept to a minimum."
"TODAY'S forward-looking transmission objectives emphasize the need for adequate return loss on loaded trunk cables. This is especially true for those cables which are used as toll-circuit originating or terminating links. Because return loss is essentially a measure of uniformness of impedance, any irrgularity of inductance, capacitance, or resistance will reduce its value, thus limiting the usefulness of the trunk facility."
"A new type of generator is described, the output frequency, phase angle, and torque angle of which are independent of the shaft speed. The generator is automatically in synchronism with the system voltage, and the breakers can be opened and closed without any synchronizing equipment."
"Many fires of unknown origin can justifiably be traced to static electricity. Increased knowledge has improved protection but the still unsolved static problems have assumed serious proportions because of the much broader explosive range of jet fuels compared with gasoline."
"CERTAIN COMBINATIONS of a capacitor with one or two diodes can be operated as voltage-controlled reactances. Such modulators are used as frequency controls, frequency modulators, and phase modulators. Their performance can be calculated easily if ideal diodes and lossless circuit elements are assumed."
"A data recording system using both photographic and digital techniques is described. Applications of this type of system may range from the simple installation of code wheels attached to existing shafts on equipment and camera with recording head, to the installation of nonloading, highly accurate transducers with servo units and special timing generators."
"THE DYNAMIC CHARACTERISTICS of a thermal converter∗ for measuring alternating current or voltage are of some importance in a number of applications. Of these, the time constant and response time are the characteristics most often required. The change of emf of a thermal converter after a step change in heater current is only approximately exponential, so that the definition as well as methods of measuring these quantities must be specified."
"THE NEED for relaying a small-capacity substation tapped to a high-voltage transmission line for faults on the line is not a frequent occurrence. Most substations tapped to high-voltage transmission lines (Fig. 1) supply essentially passive or nonmotor loads and present no problem in case a fault occurs on the high-voltage transmission line. The need for special consideration of relaying at a tapped substation is encountered when a substation supplies power to a subtransmission or distribution system with considerable connected rotating machinery, and high-speed reclosing of circuit breakers is desired on the high-voltage transmission line. Typical examples of such substations are as follows: 1. A station supplying power to a low-voltage system with connected generation operating in parallel with the high-voltage transmission system, such as a municipality or a large industrial plant. 2. A station supplying power to large synchronous motors, as in an industrial or pumping plant. 3. A station supplying power to a low-voltage system where the load is predominantly small induction motors."
"A MAJOR DIFFICULTY in the numerical solution of partial differential equations of the parabolic or hyperbolic types by means of finite difference approximations is the tendency of the solution to be unstable under certain conditions. Thus, a small error (such as a round-off error), arising at some point in the computation procedure may tend to become larger and larger as the computation progresses, until the error terms completely overshadow the desired solution, making it worthless. Some finite difference approximations appear to be stable under any condition, others are always unstable, whereas some are stable only if the spacing intervals satisfy certain requirements."
"Use of transistors in nuclear counting systems results in increased reliability, reduced space and power requirements, and lower initial cost. All-transistor systems have been built for use with boron trifluoride counters, Geiger counters, and scintillation probes."
"ECONOMY STUDIES may be classified initially according to their general nature as (1) problems of selecting the economic choice; and (2) appraisals of the profitability of new ventures."
"THE WASHINGTON, D. C., SECTION of the Institute was host to over 600 AIEE members and guests at the Middle Eastern District Meeting, held April 28–30, 1958, at Washington's Sheraton Park Hotel. “Engineering in the Nation's Capital” was selected as the theme for the meeting."
"HUNTINGTON, W. Va., major river port and railway center, situated in the heart of a rapidly expanding industrial section, was host to the East Central District Meeting of the AIEE, May 13–15, 1958. The Prichard Hotel served as headquarters."
"FINANCE was the major subject before the AIEE Board of Directors at its Spring meeting, held this year on April 30, at the District No. 2 meeting in Washington, D. C. The budget for 1958–59 was adopted calling for an expenditure of a record $1,849,443.00 between May 1, 1958, and April 30, 1959. Various measures designed to insure efficient spending and to stimulate income enough to keep the books in balance were adopted."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"SINCE the bimonthly publications were inaugurated in July and August 1952, there has been a considerable inflationary increase in the costs of printing, paper, salaries, and overhead for the staff to turn out the increased volume of these publications. Since these publications were first issued, Communication and Electronics and Power Apparatus and Systems have increased from 7,500 to 17,000 editions and Applications and Industry has increased from 5,500 to 13,000 editions. Also, the number of pages has increased from 2,068 to an average of 2,866 in a compact format over the past five years."
"PLANS for the new $10 million United Engineering Center to be erected on United Nations Plaza were announced to 150 New York business leaders at a luncheon held May 2 at The Waldorf-Astoria."
"THE AIEE Pacific General Meeting will be held in Sacramento, Calif., August 19–22, 1958. The excellent technical, social, and entertainment program—combined with the natural geographic and climatic advantages of the area—are such as to encourage AIEE members to combine a business trip to the convention with a family vacation."
"FROM OCTOBER 26 to 31, 1958, Pittsburgh, Pa., will play host to the Fall General Meeting of the Institute. Headquarters for the meeting will be the Penn-Sheraton Hotel located across from Mellon Square in the heart of the Golden Triangle. The local committee, under the chairmanship of A. A. Johnson of Westinghouse Electric Corporation, has chosen as the slogan for the meeting, “Research—Gateway to the Future.”"
"A THREE-DAY MEETING of the Great Lakes District was held in East Lansing, Mich., May 5–7, 1958, with headquarters in the Kellogg Center on the campus of Michigan State University. Some 17 technical sessions including two student sessions, two luncheons, a dinner, and banquet were held during the three days as well as inspection trips, and special activities for the ladies under the chairmanship of Mrs. J. D. Ryder."
"The fifth Convention of the Union Pan-Americana de Ingenieros (UPADI) will be held in Montreal, Que., Canada, September 2–6, 1958. Headquarters will be the Queen Elizabeth Hotel."
"INSTALLATION of a new, 1,400-foot fluorescent lighting system that spreads a carpet of light across the lunway at Washington (DC.) National Airport for low-visibility landings was announced recently by airport officials and Sylvania Electric Products Inc."
"THE U.S. NAVY today revealed hitherto classified details of the launching system for the Polaris intermediate-range ballistic missile, a prototype of which is hurling huge dummy missiles skyward many times each week at the San Francisco Naval Shipyard."
"A SEGMENT of the “electronic highway of tomorrow” went into operation recently at the David Sarnoff Research Center of the Radio Corporation of America at Princeton, N. J."
"An optical system for determining the lighting requirements of any seeing task was introduced recently to lighting engineers, designers, architects, and ophthalmologists, at the first of a series of regional conferences conducted by the Illuminating Engineering Society (IES). The new technique, described at the Dearborn, Mich., symposium, indicates the need for increases in the recommended lighting levels for a broad variety of standardized lighting classifications. It is the result of an 8-year study conducted at the Vision Research Laboratories of the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich., and supported by the Illuminating Engineering Researcn Institute, an independent research body of the IES."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Gov. Robert B. Meyner, members of the New Jersey Public Utility Commission, State and municipal officials, and many leaders in industry, commerce, and finance in New Jersey were guests of the Public Service Electric and Gas Company (PSEG) at the formal opening of its new $100 million Linden Generating Station located on the Arthur Kill in Linden, N. J."
"Key noting its 98th Anniversary on June 21, 1958, the U, S. Army Signal Corps featured the forward strides of its research and development program."
"A germanium resistance thermometer having high sensitivity and exceptional stability in the temperature range near absolute zero has been developed by J. E. Kunzler, T. H. Geballe, and G. W. Hull of Bell Telephone Laboratories, located at 463 West St., New York, N.Y. Once calibrated, this thermometer is reproducible to better than a few ten thousandths of a degree at the boiling point of helium (4.2 degrees K) even after repeated cycling from room temperature. Such characteristics indicate that this thermometer might be useful for the accurate measurement of temperatures in outer space, when mounted in a suitable space vehicle."
"The X-15, which will fly man higher and faster than he has ever been, will actually glow red as it plunges back into the earth's blanket of air, resembling the iron in a blacksmith's forge."
"Space ships traveling at more than 2 million miles an hour, electricity produced without generators, and electric power transmitted without wires are all parts of the foreseeable future. So said several featured speakers on controlled thermonuclear power at the 46th annual convention of the Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE)."
"AEC's Exhibit in Geneva Commercial Exhibition. A contract for the design and operation of the AEC's exhibit in the 2nd International Exhibition of the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy—a commercial exhibition—in Geneva, Switzerland, from September 1–14, 1958, has been awarded to the Atomic Industrial Forum, Inc., New York, N. Y."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which Is taken from the prefaces of the books la question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering, All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"THE GENERAL ELECTRIC Extra-High-Voltage Project (called “Project ehv” for short) involves the design, construction, and operation of a complete a-c transmission system which will carry power at voltages from 460 to 750 kv. This system will be a prototype of future extra-high-voltage systems. Data obtained from the system will be integrated with analytical studies, model investigations, and laboratory research in all interested components of the participating companies."
"Today's compelling need is that of absorbing the impact of science and technology for the common good. This is a responsibility of all of us, because each advance affects the whole spectrum of our society and its institutions. The essential requirement is an enlightened citizenry, prepared to submerge individual interests in the group interest and to orient to new values when and as necessary."
"AMONG the most promising types of material for insulating high-voltage cables are those in the polyethylene family. Since its introduction around 1940, polyethylene has been used successfully for submarine telegraph and telephone cable, for high-frequency coaxial communication cable, and for multiconductor control cables. It has also been used, in increasing quantities, for high-voltage cable. Its application in 5,000-volt circuits has been accepted by the Insulated Power Cable Engineers Association for some time, and present IPCEA ratings extend to 15,000 volts. There are appreciable amounts of 15,000-volt polyethylene-insulated power cable in use, both in this country and in Europe. Beyond this, there are scattered installations for systems up to 34,500 volts, and manufacturers expect to push the limits even higher."
"Our profit economy requires, for continued expansion, a progressive lowering of unit production costs that can be translated into lower prices. This means improved technology and a righting of the balance between wages and prices."
"The process of accreditation contributes to engineering education, thus to the profession as a whole, by insuring not only adequate curricula, but also the general improvement of all curricula. The history and operation of the ECPD Education and Accreditation Committee are described."
"THIS ARTICLE PRESENTS two general concepts which are very valuable in analyzing nonlinear servomechanisms. A graphical procedure is introduced by which the frequency response of a nonlinear closed-loop system can be determined from the describing function. The theory is even valid for the general describing function which is both amplitude and frequency dependent (Fig. 1)."
"Excitation of a tube resonance for prolonged periods has proved a valuable aid in evaluating tubes for guided missile applications. Electrical and optical examination before and after vibration, and changes in the noise output spectrum are the basis for this evaluation."
"A 115-KV CIRCUIT BREAKER of moderate interrupting capacity designed to meet some special and definite applications has long been deemed desirable on the transmission system of the Gulf Power Company. Consequently, when the gas-filled (sulfur-hexa-fluoride) Type 1150-SF-1000 power circuit breaker rated for 115-kv, 1 million kva service became available, this utility company agreed to purchase three in order to obtain service experience and to permit staged field tests for comparison with test results obtained in the High Power Laboratory."
"An attempt to clear out some dead “Wood” from the early history of electrical conduction placed there by a spare-time historian."
"A description is given of the instrumentation for the Vallecitos Boiling Water Reactor, a small-scale power reactor supplying steam to a turbine operated by the Pacific Gas & Electric Company as part of their generating facilities. An attempt has been made in the design of the plant to keep the instrumentation as simple as possible."
"MOST ORGANIC INSULATIONS are not suitable for high voltage applications in contaminated atmospheres. Under surface arcing conditions, the organic constituents of the insulation decompose to form carbonaceous paths and the apparatus will fail by progressive creepage tracking. This article describes a proposed internal oxidation mechanism to eliminate formation of carbonized tracks upon exposure to surface electrical arcs."
"Many utilities, faced with the problems of expansion, have initiated long-range studies to evaluate the possibilities of using extrahigh transmission voltages, such as 345 kv. In this article, 345-kv systems are compared with the more commonly used 138-kv systems on the basis of right-of-way requirements, reliability of operation, and cost."
"Infrared has emerged in the last decade from the sanctuary of the research laboratory into the domain of practical applied science. It is hoped the basic information presented will stimulate further interest in a field of great potential value."
"THE RICHLY CULTIVATED CARIBBEAN area has imposed ever-increasing demands upon communication facilities to North America. To serve this market place and crossroads of transportation, the Western Union Telegraph Company operates three submarine telegraph cables between Havana, Cuba, and Key West, Fla., an average distance of 101 nautical miles. Originally operated duplex in a differential polar relay arrangement, each cable was capable of sustaining a 3-channel time division multiplex at a signaling speed of 50 cycles per second."
"Exactly what is the nature of the “computing revolution” that is now under way and, specifically, what is the future for computers in distribution engineering? These are some of the provocative questions discussed in an attempt to assay the significance of digital computers for power distribution."
"This second half of a two-part article expands upon the uses of the present definitions and concepts and attempts to show how reliability of parts influences system reliability. The importance of life testing is discussed briefly along with some comments on system design."
"THE CONTINUOUS current-carrying capacity of transmission lines is dependent upon the allowable temperature of operation of the conductors. A great deal of test work has been performed in the investigation of this problem on ACSR (aluminum cable, steel reinforced). However, two factors—the effect of the sun and of the altitude of the line—have not received consideration heretofore."
"THE LAMME MEDAL, being awarded to a distinguished member of the Institute today, was established by Benjamin Garver Lamme in his will. The purpose of the award is to give deserved recognition to a member of the Institute who has shown “meritorious achievement in the development of electrical apparatus or machinery.” This achievement may be in any field of application."
"OUR SOCIETY is honoring Harold Stephen Black by presenting the Lamme Medal to him. Harold and I have been associated in research and development at the Bell Telephone Laboratories for more than 35 years. It is my privilege to outline for you the career of my friend, Harold Stephen Black, our medalist."
"I AM DEEPLY HONORED and grateful to be awarded the 1957 Lamme medal. Throughout the years, the high prestige and importance of this award have been augmented by the outstanding creativeness and distinguished achievements of previous award winners. It is indeed a great privilege to be included among those so highly honored by the Institute and it is with much pride and humility that I accept the Benjamin Garver Lamme Medal."
"Corona losses in transmission lines may be reduced by the use of two or more conductors per phase, an arrangement often referred to as bundle conductors. Tests made to determine stresses on spacers between these conductors are described."
"Since the issue of a report on basic impulse insulation levels in 1941, additional information regarding system grounding practices and maximum operating voltages has been made available. This new report provides recommended values applicable to equipment for use on grounded and ungrounded a-c supply systems."
"AUTOMATIC, high-speed letter mail sorting is being done by a laboratory prototype machine developed by Rabinow Engineering Co., Takoma Park, Md., sponsored by the U. S. National Bureau of Standards (NBS) for the U. S. Post Office Department (PO), Designed to sort at a 36,000 letters per hour rate into many categories, directed either by built-in electronic control, human operators, or a combination of both, the system is of modular design and, thus, adaptable to the varying sorting complexity and spatial requirements of different post offices. The machine has proved successful in laboratory tests, and the PO recently ordeied construction of a 1,000 pocket production prototype."
"THE 1958 AIEE Pacific General Meeting to be held in Sacramento, Calif., August 19–22, will offer a program and activities that will appeal to all interests. Headquarters for this meeting will be the Hotel Senator. A rich and interesting technical program is assured. Six inspection trips of both general and technical interest including a trip to one of the world's largest rocket plants, will complete the program. Excellent, diversified entertainment is planned for the ladies, and special activities for students will round out the schedule. Arrangements have been made to accommodate the children of parents wishing to attend."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"THE 1958 Special Technical Conference on Nonlinear Magnetics and Magnetic Amplifiers will be held August 6–8, at the Statler Hotel, Los Angeles, Calif. It is being sponsored by the AIEE, with participation by the Instrument Society of America (ISA) and the Institute of Radio Engineers Professional Group on Industrial Electronics (PGIE of IRE)."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"FOUR MEETINGS of the AIEE Board of Directors were held in the following cities: Montreal, Que., Canada; Chicago, Ill.; New York, N.Y.; and Washington, D.C. Information regarding the more important decisions made by the Board were reported in various issues of Electrical Engineering."
"THE 1958 Fall General Meeting of the AIEE will be held in Pittsburgh, Pa., October 26–31. Headquarters for the meeting will be the Penn-Sheraton Hotel which is located across from new Mellon Square Park, in the heart of the Golden Triangle."
"The AIEE Electronic and High-Frequency Instruments Committee, under the Chairmanship of Ferdinand Hamburger, Jr., is serving as cosponsor of a Conference of national scope to be held in Boulder, Colo., on August 13–15, 1958. Other cosponsors will include the Professional Group on Instrumentation of the Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE), and the Radio Standards Laboratory of the National Bureau of Standards (NBS). The Conference will be held immediately prior to the IRE's WESCON in Los Angeles, Calif., which begins August 19."
"A. Q. Adamson was announced at the June commencement exercise at Iowa State College, Ames, as the 1958 winner of the Marston Medal. The medal is given annually to a graduate in recognition of outstanding achievement in the field of engineering."
"The winners of the AIEE District Student Prize Papers Competition have been announced."
"THE FIRST of a new fleet of missile-age cruisers, described as capable of destroying enemy aircraft and surface targets at ranges in excess of 65 miles, was commissioned at the Philadelphia (Pa.) Naval Shipyard on May 28th."
"AN INDUSTRIAL COMPLEX—including a steel mill and a hydroelectric dam and plant—are going up on the edge of Venezuela's “Lost World” (so named by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle), where humans are far rarer than jaguars and iguanas."
"A MESSAGE PRINTER and code puncher was officially unveiled for public demonstration at the Armed Forces Communications and Electronics Association convention at the Sheraton-Park Hotel in Washington, D. C, recently. It is the first in a new family of superspeed combat teletypewriter imits."
"DISCOVERY of a method to insure virtually uninterrupted accuracy in electronic data-processing by correcting mistakes “on the fly” at electronic speeds was announced recently by the Datamatic Division, Minneapolis-Honeywell Regulator Co."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Coin Thickness Gauged. A unique X-ray gauge is being used by the US Mint at Denver, CO, USA, in the control of weight of coins. Produced by Industrial Gauges Corporation of West Englewood, N.J., the gauge provides all-electronic control of the thickness of the metal strip from which the coins are formed, so that they do not vary from the extremely close tolerances established for United States coins."
"Pulse code modulation (PCM) is being explored as a possible technique for greatly increasing the information handling capacity of conventional telephone cables. For example, there is a possibility that a single twisted pair may handle 176 telephone conversations simultaneously, or that seven such pairs may handle a complete television signal by utilizing pulse code modulation techniques. A maximum rate of 10 million pulses per second is required on each pair."
"Secrecy surrounding the cutting of silicon crystal for rectifier production was partially removed recently as the Rectifier Division, Audio Devices, Inc., celebrated production of its millionth unit at its Santa Ana, Calif., plant."
"A transistor amplifier using a semiconductor-electrolyte interface modulated by an electrical field has been developed by J. F. Dewald of Bell Telephone Laboratories. Recent laboratory experiments have demonstrated amplifier operation at 1,000 cps (cycles per second) with gain in exsess of 15 db. Initial work on conductivity modulation at a semiconductor-electrolyte interface was carried out at the company's laboratories more than 10 years ago during early studies of transistor action. At that time, minority carrier injection at small area contacts was discovered, leading to the first point contact transistor."
"A chemical “blanket” to be used as an inexpensive method of saving water now lost through evaporation has been de veloped by Columbia University, New York, N. Y., research scientists. Dr. V. K. La Mer, Columbia University professor of chemistry, said that in tests over periods of several months, hexadecanol, or cetyl alcohol, has reduced evaporation by 50 to 65% in reservoirs in the southwestern area of the United States and in Australia."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for state, ments made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Our outgoing president looks back upon a year of fruitful accomplishments and important developments affecting the future growth of the Institute."
"OXIDATION AND EVAPORATION are two of the mechanisms by which insulation deterioration have been described. The present tests were made with the idea of showing their relative effects and to study the possibility of acceleration of these effects to give more rapid evaluation of various materials. The materials investigated are black varnished cloth, phenolic impregnated kraft paper, and silicone rubber on glass cloth. These are aged in some or all of the mediums of oxygen, nitrogen, air, and a vacuum. These data are compared with previous data on these and similar materials aged in air and nitrogen."
"The National Science Foundation, through its Program for Engineering Sciences, has been active in supporting research in engineering sciences since 1951. However, there remains a considerable lack of understanding of the Foundation's role and the assistance it can give to those in need of support for fundamental research. This article was prepared in an effort to bring to electrical engineers a better idea of the Foundation and its work."
"ELECTRIC POWER is provided by the Toledo Edison Company to a 2,500-square-mile area of northwestern Ohio, which currently demands a peak load of 425,000 kw. This service area is supplied by a 69,000-volt double-belt line loop emanating from the older Acme Station and a 138-kv transmission system originating at the new Bay Shore Station, located on the south shore of Maumee Bay, just east of Toledo."
"USUALLY a man is very happy to receive recognition for his accomplishments in a single field of activity. Hon. Donald A. Quarles, Deputy Secretary of Defense of the United States and Past President of the Institute, has achieved distinction in no less than four fields. His career as an engineer and engineering administrator led into his career as a high official of government. Electrically speaking, these two careers were connected in series. In parallel with his career as an engineer were two others, one in civic affairs, the other in AIEE."
"IT IS A GREAT PLEASURE to be here with you and I need not tell you how proud I am to receive honorary membership in this great Institute. You have been most generous and I accept the honor you do me with a deep sense of gratitude."
"THE CHARACTERISTICS of the interrupting device may have an appreciable effect on the recovery voltage obtained on interrupting an a-c circuit. This effect may appear as (a) an abrupt cutting off of the current, (b) the introduction of an arc voltage, or (c) the gradual introduction of a resistance. The recovery voltage may be either increased or decreased, depending upon how rapidly the resistance (or arc voltage) increases, and upon when it is introduced."
"A description of a system of air surveillance and control in which flight data from radars and other relevant information is gathered and evaluated continuously and automatically to present a current picture of the air situation."
"A survey of world-wide trends in electric traction over the past decade shows the United States lagging in electrification projects and emphasizing the use of diesel power. More attention is urged for these projects in view of the greater abundance of hydroelectric power, coal, and possibly nuclear power as compared with oil."
"VERTICAL WATER WHEEL generator units have been made possible, to a large extent, by the development of efficient and reliable thrust bearings."
"The thermodynamic principles involved in the area governing heat pump phenomena are set forth. The utility and economics of thermoelectric refrigeration and the reversible features of room temperature control, as based upon the present state of the art, are analyzed."
"A SYSTEM has been developed for determining the recovery strength of arcs by means of a sine-wave source of current and a high-voltage pulse. Arcs can be studied at currents up to 8,000 amperes, and recovery voltages to 37 kv. The system is shown schematically in Fig. 1. In this figure, the 60-cycle arc-current circuit is designated by the heavy line. The arc under study is drawn in Switch I. The high-voltage pulse that is used to “probe” the residual plasma of the arc is applied between Switch I and Switch II. Switch II is used to isolate the high-voltage pulse from the low-voltage power source. The sequence of operation of the two switches is shown by the simulated current oscillogram of trace A of Fig. 2. Since Switch II is opened near the zero of the current wave, it is deionized much more rapidly than the switch under test and is therefore able to withstand much more voltage than that at which Switch I re-ignites."
"With the increased availability of high-speed digital computers, it is now possible to determine internal temperatures of rotating machinery. In this article, a description is given of an iteration technique that has been successfully programmed."
"FIELD TESTS for determination of the losses of large hydroelectric generators are almost invariably made with the unwatered turbine connected to the generator shaft. The value of friction and windage losses obtained thus includes the losses of both the turbine and generator. This total value normally is apportioned between the two machines in the same ratio as their respective calculated values in accordance with AIEE Standards. For this purpose, the calculated value of turbine windage is determined by means of an empirical formula given in the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) Power Test Code. In many cases, it has been suspected that this formula yields highly inaccurate values that result in significant errors in the efficiency tests on large hydroelectric generators with Kaplan-type turbines."
"High magnetic fields may be produced in the vicinity of large conductors carrying heavy currents. A method is outlined for the determination of the strength of these magnetic fields."
"THE NONDESTRUCTIVE MEASUREMENT of cladding thickness when the cladding metal and base metal are nonmagnetic has presented a major problem for a number of years. It is the purpose of this article to describe a system which employs pulsed eddy currents for gauging cladding with a minimum effect from probe-to-metal spacing: variations."
"More than 14 circuit miles of 230-kv oil-filled underground cable were recently placed in service in Vancouver, B. C., Canada. A description is given of the two types of cable used, as well as installation details."
"A general procedure is outlined for solving problems of providing service to buildings involving loads of 500 kw or more."
"PITTSBURGH is extending a warm welcome to all those who attend the 1958 Fall General Meeting of the Institute, beginning on Sunday, October 26, and extending through Friday, October 31. Headquarters for this meeting will be at the Hotel Penn-Sheraton. The hotels committee has room reservations in this and neighboring hotels for a maximum attendance. Members will find an early Fall visit to the “Renaissance City of America” an exhilarating experience."
"A FULL WEEK of technical and social activities was enjoyed by more than 2,000 members and guests at the AIEE Summer General Meeting and Air Transportation Conference, held June 22–27, 1958, at the Statler Hilton Hotel, Buffalo, N.Y. In addition to a varied technical program, numerous inspection trips and special events were planned."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE 18TH FORUM of Technical Committee Chairmen held on Wednesday evening during AIEE's Summer General Meeting, was called to order by Hendley Blackmon, chairman of the Technical Operations Department (TOD). Past-President W. J. Barrett, who had addressed the forum on several previous occasions, gave a cordial welcome, and, after the presentation of two valuable papers on operational procedures, the meeting was turned over to Dixon Lewis, past chairman of the Sections Committee, who introduced a group dynamics discussion. This type of meeting has met with considerable success in a number of the Sections."
"THE FOLLOWING are rules for the award of prizes for AIEE Papers which were approved by the Board of Directors on June 28, 1956, superseding those previously in effect."
"“WHY don't engineers do something for themselves?”"
"DURING THE PAST YEAR, you, as AIEE members, have been told about the acquisition of a site and plans for the Institute's new headquarters—the United Engineering Center. In December 1957, the architects' sketch of the new building was shown on the cover of Electrical Eyigineering and a photograph of the model of the building is shown herewith."
"A LISTING of the papers presented at the 1958 Summer General Meeting of the Institute, June 22–27, Buffalo, N. Y., follows."
"AT THE 17TH MEETING of the International Conference on Large Electric Systems (CIGRE), held in Paris, France, June 4–14, 1958, several major trends were evident."
"The 11th Annual Conference on Electrical Techniques in Medicine and Biology will be held in Minneapolis, Minn., November 19–21, 1958, at the Nicollet Hotel. It is sponsored by the AIEE, Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE), and the Instrument Society of America (ISA) through their Joint Executive Committee on Medicine and Biology."
"Engineers and scientists who would like to present technical papers during the Fifth Nuclear Congress, to be held in Cleveland, Ohio, April 5–10, 1959, should submit outlines before October 1, 1958."
"The AIEE power industry computer Application conference will be held in Toronto, Ont., Canada. September 15–17, 1958, at the King Edward Hotel."
"WIDE-FIELD radiometer Model R-4K1 is designed for making radiometric measurements of fast-moving targets. It can be used under conditions where mechanical mounting and pointing systems are too slow or too inconvenient for use in acquiring and tracking such targets. The instrument weighs 13 pounds and is constructed to be held and pointed much as a shotgun, for ease of handling and rapid acquisition and tracking of the target. Because of these and additional features the Model R-4K1 is ideally suited for field measurements of the radiation from high-speed missiles and aircraft."
"SUCCESS in causing pure silica to boil and foam has created an entirely new acidresistant insulating and refractory material. The material has a wide range of applications in the chemical and chemical process industries as well as many areas of the metallurgical, electrical, electronic, nuclear energy, petroleum, petrochemical, and aeronautical fields."
"SKEPTICS said that this was the bridge that couldn't be built. It was, and is, one of the costliest and longest of suspension bridges."
"At a recent electronics conference in Washington, D.C., the U. S. Navy's Grasshopper, the Automatic Weather Transmitter AN/GMT-1 (XG-1), was introduced. Designed, developed, and built by the U. S. Naval Avionics Facility, Indianapolis, Ind., the Grasshopper was shown and demonstrated by the Cleveland Metal Specialties Company, which designed and manufactured the printed circuits used in the unit. The Grasshopper is completely automatic from the time of drop from the aircraft."
"Small “power plants,” consisting of two mercury battery packs, each weighing slightly over 2 pounds, have been used in transmitting signals from outer space. These mercury batteries, developed by P. R. Mallory & Co., Inc., Indianapolis, Ind., have been employed in U.S. satellites Explorer I, II, and III, as well as Vanguard I and II."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"“Diagonal design” is a pioneer feature of the underfloor electric distribution system which will bring complete electrical utility to a new commercial building in Kansas City, Mo. The system, employing more than 130,000 feet of 6-inch H-Duct and 2-inch Nepcoduct supplied, by National Electric Products Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pa., is being engineered to bring electric and telephone outlets to all desks, no matter where they are located or positioned."
"Civil Aeronautics Administration. Two new policies of the Civil Aeronautics Administration (CAA) which were determined during the past summer—marking of all CAA aircraft with fluorescent paint, and use of Greenwich Mean Time for all domestic air traffic control operationshave been implemented."
"Stressing a full atomic energy program in preference to its conventional energy resources in its long-term plans for electric power supply calling for the development of 425 million tons of coal equivalent by 1975, India's unique reasons for its decision were revealed in an industrialization program report wrhich appeared in International Energy Reports on United Nations (UN) Economic Developments, published in New York, N. Y., by World-mark Press, Inc."
"Remote-controlled amphibious landing once may have been considered a dream—but not any more. On Pacific beaches at Camp Pendleton and Monterey, Calif., U. S. Marine Corps (USMC) personnel has been surf-testing amphibious vehicles controlled by radio from helicopters hovering overhead. In this technique, the “driver” guides Marine LVT's (Landing Vehicle, Tracked) with a portable electronic control panel. By moving a steering stick, similar to an aircraft control stick, and by manipulating buttons and switches mounted on the panel, the drivet can start and stop the engine, steer, shift gears, brake, and apply the throttle. In short, he can operate the vehicle almost as well as if he were seated at the manual controls—and he can see better."
"Aircraft traffic in any combat area will be controlled by a highly mobile Flight Operations Centet (FOC) developed by the U. S. Signal Corps."
"In 1948, the presence of “metal whiskers” became known, a discovery which explained, if it did not solve, the previously baffling erratic behavior of electronic equipment. Such equipment might be inoperative in the field, but might work perfectly in the laboratory."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The new AIEE president describes the history, organization, and expansion of the Institute during the past 75 years. In his forecast for the future, President Hickernell expresses confidence that the Institute will keep pace with the unprecedented growth taking place in the field of electrical engineering."
"SURFACING ALUMINUM with a high-quality silver plating eliminates many of the joining problems which have limited the application of aluminum bus conductor. These problems are related to the natural oxide film on the surface of the aluminum and to the possibility of galvanic corrosion in aluminum-copper connections."
"With the coming of the Space Age, electrical engineering has erupted in the field of aviation. Rockets, supersonic flight, navigation and control systems, missiles, and satellites, have so intertwined the two fields that a new major division of engineering activity called “avionics” has been created."
"The profession of Managing is moving away from the paternal and coercive manipulation of individuals toward a social concept of power which rests on the dignity and worth of all individuals in the organization. Leadership thus exercised will produce the greatest usefulness and profitability."
"Substandard street lighting covers 90% of our streets and 20-year old developments are labeled “news.” Recent developments and techniques provide more light per dollar and should be adopted to avoid the risk of outmoded equipment becoming a liability."
"THE ECONOMIC DISPATCH COMPUTER has been in service since February 1957 at Charleroi, Pa., central dispatching headquarters for West Penn Power Company. Generator load dispatching for the integrated properties of West Penn Electric System, consisting of West Penn Power Company, Monongahela Power Company and Potomac Edison Company has been done at Charleroi for many years. The development of the economic dispatch computer was a joint development between the engineers of West Penn and the Westinghouse Electric Corporation."
"INDUCTION HEATING is widely employed today in heating billets for forging and extrusion. Starting with the solutions of certain classical heat flow problems, equations and procedures are developed for analyzing and planning induction billet heating cycles."
"A discussion of the lack of uniformity of state mining laws which have hampered operations of interstate coal-mining companies. This situation has been aggravated by the trend toward wider use of a-c mining equipment against which some state laws are particularly restrictive."
"An instrument has been developed which will automatically convert frequency into shaft position, with an accuracy of ±0.1% over a temperature range of -55 C to +55 C. Methods are shown for compensating for the imperfections of diodes as switches, thereby achieving a high degree of linearity and stability."
"FREQUENTLY, when automatic load control has been applied to a turbine-generator, regulating performance of the unit has been limited by the ability of the boiler to keep up with the load changes. The purpose of this investigation is to evaluate the improvement in boiler response realized by sending load-regulating intelligence to the boiler as well as to the turbine. The results of a computer simulation study of the problem are verified by a comparison with actual field performance."
"Interference between radar transmitters and microwave communication systems is a grewing problem complicated by the fact that the fermer use power outputs of megawatts, whereas microwave transmitters use power outputs of 10 watts or less. Urgent measures are required to permit these radio services to co-exist in the microwave spectrum."
"Many of the factors responsible for the growing trend toward the use of electricity for home heating—both in the Tennessee Valley and elsewhere throughout the United States—are discussed."
"THE ANALOG-COMPUTER field is frequently concerned with the generation of periodic nonsinusoidal functions of time. At the present time, this waveform generation is frequently performed with biased diode networks, curve followers, and synchronous switches. The main purpose of this article is to give the theoretical design and analysis of nonsinusoidal function generators which utilize delay-type or short-time memory devices and certain nonlinear elements in their structure. The paper is meant to be exploratory, in a theoretical sense only, of a sizable number of different methods of waveform generation which utilize these circuit elements."
"IF A HIGH SCHOOL BOY were to ask any one of us how to come by an engineering education, I suppose we would immediately answer: “By attending a recognized College of Engineering.” Now you, who are practicing engineers, and I, who have been a teacher of engineering for nearly 40 years, know this would be far from the complete answer. An engineering education is a jewel of many facets, the polishing of each of which requires different disciplines, some acquired in college, some elsewhere. It has been said that if you wish to educate a man you should begin with his grandfather; but if you wish to educate a man as an engineer it would seem that there is no beginning and no end. You take what you can find, you soften it up with a little heat, you hammer it into rough form in the forge, you temper it with the oil of precedence, you polish it with the abrasive of experience. Eventually, you will have an instrument which is serviceable for a time, and then, before you know it, the thing becomes obsolete and you have to begin all over again."
"THESE ARE THE DAYS when we are expected to originate new teaching aids, and devices to make college and high school students more science-minded. The simple watt-hour meter demonstrator described in this article meets both needs. It can be so readily constructed and so satisfactorily operated, that it will appeal to teachers and students alike, at any level."
"IN THE ANALYSIS of electric circuits, certain conventions are necessary, or at least desirable, to facilitate understanding and checking. Actually, also, the formulation of basic laws depends upon the conventions used, so that in any review of the subject, both conventions and basic concepts can well be treated together. Obviously, understanding is increased and chances for error and misunderstanding are reduced if the conventions used in all areas of circuit analysis are the simplest, most logical, and most consistent. This analysis is particularly concerned with 3-phase systems."
"THE ULTIMATE DESTINY of Western Civilization, indeed its very survival, is now in direct ratio to the quality and quantity of its technology. This, in turn, is measurably related to engineering education in general, and to electrical engineering education in particular, by reason of the central role of electricity in the modern world. These are historic realities of the present day, acknowledged by all thoughtful leaders in and out of Government."
"THE DESIGN of most transistor circuitry is done by means of a-c small signal parameters and a-c equivalent circuits. This procedure is quite similar to that used for vacuum tube circuit design where the familiar parameters μ, gm, and rp are used. However, when one wishes to design a circuit in which operation occurs over a greater range than that for which the a-c equivalent circuit applies, some other means of representing the transistor must be found. This article describes a method which uses equivalent circuits to represent the transistor in switching applications, where the transistor is either cut-off or driven to saturation. As with most equivalent circuit representations, this method allows a better visualization of the transistor operation and, as a result, circuit simplifications may be made which might otherwise be overlooked."
"IN THE APPLICATION of the mesh analysis method to network problems a question is frequently raised: How should the loop currents be chosen so their independence will always be assured? Several rules may be followed to assure the independence of the set of loop currents. For instance, if a network is flat its mesh currents form a set of independent loop currents. Another scheme that may be followed is to choose the loop currents in such a way that, as each loop current path is traced, it includes at least one new branch that has not been traced before."
"THE WINNERS of the AIEE District Student Prize Papers Competition have been announced."
"For seniors, the last semester in college is the time when momentous decisions are to be made—it is a time when one chooses the first step in a lifelong career. Selecting a company and a job are serious matters indeed, and this selection cannot be taken lightly. This season, then, is one of many conferences with interviewers, teachers, parents, wives; of sleepless nights, days of indecision, some, groping, and much soul searching."
"ON APRIL 26, 1958, the High-Voltage Laboratory, located in Dearborn Hall, Oregon State College, was dedicated to F. O. McMillan, formerly head of the department of electrical engineering, who served as president of AIEE, 1951–52. Above, Mt: At the dedication ceremonies were: (left to right) F. R. McMillan, son of F. O. McMillan; E. C. Starr, chief engineer, Bonneville Power Administration and a director of AIEE, who presented the historical background of the development of the Laboratory; and L. N. Stone, head of the electrical engineering department and in charge of high-voltage research. Above, right: View of the Laboratory showing the 50-cm sphere gap in foreground and the 350,000-volt transformer at the extreme right. The Laboratory was completed In 1952 and has been used for corona and radio noise studies, as well as for educational work in high voltage. Prof. McMillan, who died In 1956, pioneered in the development of the Laboratory."
"Flanking the main entrance of the new Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute building adjoining the Civic Center in Brooklyn, N.Y., are two large decorative panels that symbolize Polytechnic's work in the fields of science and engineering. They represent a new technique in mural design and execution, based on the passage of light through multiple colors and layers of a modern technological material, Plexiglas acrylic plastic."
"A warning that at least 1,000 new engineering teachers will be needed each year until the rising tide of students reaches its climax was offered recently by C. L. Eckel, dean of the College of Engineering at the University of Colorado. The engineering educator delivered the keynote address during the Rocky Mountain Section meeting of the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE), held at the Colorado School of Mines, Golden. Dean Eckel is vicepresident for the western division of ASEE."
"Plans to construct a $2 million engineering and technology building at New York University's (NYU) Bronx campus have been announced by Dr. C. V. Newsom, president of NYU."
"Some 26 leading educational and research institutions have formed an interuniversity corporation to be known as Associated Midwest Universities."
"The first electric network analyzer designed specifically for engineering education—a computerlike unit that can simulate the power system of an entire small town or public utility—went into service on May 1 at Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pa."
"AMONG PARTICIPANTS at the semiannual meeting of the Joint Industry-Education Advisory Council of the Science Manpower Project of Teachers College, Columbia University, on June 23, 1958, were: (left to right) Morris Meister, president, Bronx Community College; Dean S. M. Corey, Columbia Teachers College; A. M. Monger, employee relations division, Standard Oil Company of New Jersey; G. V. Grune, director of recruitment and college relations, Continental Can Company; W. W. Winter, supervisor of personnel research, American Electric Power Company; Howard Meyerhoff, executive director, Scientific Manpower Commission; W. T. Cavanaugh, executive secretary, Engineers Joint Council; and Prof. F. L. Fitzpatrick, director of the Science Manpower Project. The Science Manpower Project is designed to help improve the teaching of science in the nation's elementary and secondary schools. Centered in the department of teaching of science at Teachers College, the project is supported by 30 of the nation's larger industries. Its policies are guided by the Joint Industry-Education Advisory Council."
"RESEARCH, atomic power, and the Pittsburgh Redevelopment and Bicentennial will be some of the highlights of the 1958 Fall General Meeting of the Institute. Beginning on Sunday, October 26, and continuing through Friday, October 31, an extensive series of technical sessions, outstanding inspection trips, social activities, and entertainment for the ladies will make up a very full week of events."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THREE distinguished leaders—one from the military, one from Government, and one from private industry—will speak at luncheons during the 14th annual National Electronics Conference (NEC) at the Hotel Sherman, Chicago, Ill., October 13–15, 1958. They are: Gen. J. B. Medaris, commanding general, U.S. Army Ordinance Missile Command, Redstone Arsenal in Alabama, the first commander of this new Army organization, who will speak on Monday, October 13; D. B. Quarles, Deputy Secretary of Defense for the United States, who will address an NEC luncheon on Tuesday; and Dr. Simon Ramo, vice-president of Ramo-Wooldridge Corporation, known for his far-reaching capabilities in electronics and missile-space technology, who will speak on Wednesday."
"The AIEE Medal in Electrical Engineering Education will be presented to Dr. J.F. Calvert (F '45) head of the department of electrical engineering at the University of Pittsburgh, during the Fall General Meeting of the Institute, to be held in Pittsburgh, PA, USA."
"The 10th National Machine Tool Conference sponsored by the AIEE will be held at the Statler Hilton Hotel in Hartford, Conn., October 13–15, 1958."
"Dr. M. J. Kelly (F '31), president of Bell Telephone Laboratories, will be the 1959 recipient of the John Fritz Medal, it was announced by the John Fritz Medal Board of Award representing four major national engineering societies."
"HUMAN REACTIONS to the crushing forces of rocket flight in preparation for man's first venture beyond the Earth's atmosphere are being studied by use of a giant centrifuge. This tremendous piece of equipment has been instrumental in saving lives of test pilots, as well as saving millions of dollars in prototypes."
"THE AMERICAN tin plate industry has reached new standards of operation and control with the start-up of Urtited States Steel's newest electrolytic tinning line at the Pittsburg, Calif., plant of Columbia-Geneva Division, according to L. B. Worthington, Division president. The recently completed facility incorporates some of the latest devices and most current processes for producing tin plate to exacting requirements of customers."
"The recent epoch-making “under the ice pack” transpolar trip of the U. S. Navy's Nautilus drew high commendation from Government and civilian sources on behalf of the officers and crew of the submarine as well as the industries whose equipment contributed to the success of the venture."
"Man has taken a lesson from sunflowers to help him push back the frontiers of science by developing a solar furnace equipped with a sun-tracking heliostat to keep the furnace pointed at the sun throughout the day."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A VIRGINIA garden is the setting for the new aluminum office building of the Reynolds Metals Company in Richmond. From the exterior, almost everything visible is either aluminum or glass. Aluminum used throughout the building includes a large system of automatic sun louvers, movable office partitions, acoustical and light-diffusing ceilings, a new line of aluminum office furniture, aluminum fiber yarn draperies and carpeting, and most hardware including all wiring and cables."
"Utilizing the Emerson Radio & Phonograph Corporation resources and facilities, the trainer section of its Government Electronics Division, under contract to the Air Materiel Command for the Wright Air Development Center (WADC) at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, Ohio, has developed a trailerized system which provides training for crews that will man Airborne Early Warning (AEW) equipment which is installed in several of our military planes. With this system, it is possible to give effective training to large numbers of crews on the ground without the expense and the risk involved in training them while in actual flight."
"Hospital tests of an experimental thinscreen X-ray amplifying panel indicate that the device “may ultimately provide the ideal X-ray amplifier,” stated Dr, E. W. Godfrey, chief radiologist of Princeton Hospital, Princeton, N.J. In a report to the Rocky Mountain Radiological Society, Denver, Colo., he described evaluation tests of the experimental amplifier with patients at Princeton Hospital and the University Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. The experimental panel was developed at Radio Corporation of America's David Sarnoff Research Center, Princeton, N.J., by Benjamin Kazan, who was a coauthor with Dr. Godfrey of the report given to radiologists."
"A method for measuring the magnetic forces that originate inside the earth and in outer space has been perfected by scientists T. L. Skillman of the U. S. Department of Commerce's Coast and Geodetic Survey and Dr. P. L. Bender of the National Bureau of Standards. Admiral H. A. Karo, director of the Survey, predicted that the development would provide scientists with magnetometers (instruments for measuring magnetism) far more precise and compact than those now available."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The era of the Space Age presents a tremendous challenge to the electrical engineering profession. Electric power is essential not only in the launching of satellites or space vehicles, but also in providing the energy for instrumentation and habitation, as well as propulsive power."
"MANY UTILITIES are increasing distribution system primary circuit voltages as a means of supplying continually growing loads in urban areas. However, the fundamental advantage of higher-voltage feeder design, the ability to serve more load in larger areas, prevents the substation circuit breaker and its associated relays from providing adequate protection for the entire feeder. Automatic line-sectionalizing devices must be provided to restrict outages to a portion of a feeder area, thereby limiting the customers without service and reducing the area that must be patrolled to locate the fault."
"Research laboratories of the type set up for the purpose of developing knowledge and understanding in the natural sciences generate innovations and are an important element in progressives businesses. Studies made in the electrical manufacturing industry give evidence that research is gaining appreciation as an operation in itself and that evaluation and management of this work is rapidly progressing."
"THE COMMONWEALTH Edison Company operates a 138-kv and a 230-kv overhead transmission system in northern Illinois. Prior to 1954, most of the 138-kv circuits were carried on double circuit steel towers designed for two overhead ground wires. A typical 138-kv tower is shown as type A in Fig. 1. This tower has given very good lightning performance based on cumulative 6,351 year-miles of experience with circuits on towers where both circuits and both ground wires were installed, and 3,782 cumulative year-miles where only one circuit and one ground wire were installed. However, the type A tower had not given satisfactory service with respect to flashovers caused by galloping conductors under ice and wind conditions; for this reason, the type C tower in Fig. 1 was developed."
"Because of the characteristics of a nuclear power plant, much effort must be expended to insure that the plant will not create a public hazard. Thus, the safety instrumentation system is one of its most important features. The proposed system for the Enrico Fermi Atomic Power Plant is described."
"SINCE THE INTRODUCTION of aircraft carriers to the fleet of the U. S. Navy, their role has continually increased in scope as well as in importance. This has been chiefly caused by advances made in aircraft and associated weapons and systems. This discussion will be limited to cover only certain special power and lighting systems which are considered to be broad enough in scope to be treated individually."
"The study of the human relations aspects of the engineering manager's job may well be as important as the technical and economic problems he faces. The concepts of motivation and recognition, as applied to the field of engineering, are explained and discussed."
"THE ROTOR DISPLACEMENT ANGLE plays an important role in the operation of a synchronous machine, because the power output and stability of the machine depends on it. This angle may be determined by calculation or measurement. The known methods of the direct measurement are applicable only during tests on synchronous machines. A new method for the measurement of the rotor displacement angle under normal operation of the synchronous machine is discussed in this article."
"Static switching control, with its greatly improved reliability, is another step toward automated industrial sytems. A general view of this field including a specific application to a paper mill digester is presented."
"A THEORETICAL INVESTIGATION of a second order servomechanism with backlash was recently conducted. In the absence of a driving force, such a system may exhibit hunting phenomena in which the system oscillates with a certain amplitude and frequency. The Ritz-Galerkin method has been used for finding the hunting frequency and hunting amplitude of such a system. Theoretical results which were developed were found to agree with experimental results obtained by means of an electronic analog computer."
"Report of a 3 1/2 week tour of the Soviet Union during which five important solid-state research laboratories were visited. The Soviet people, in general, were found to be vigorously competing with the United States in all fields and optimistic over the chances for peaceful coexistence."
"SUCCESSFUL launching of the Explorer IV scientific Earth satellite is the U.S. Army's contribution to the over-all Department of Defense program with the International Geophysical Year (ICY) research program, which is sponsored by the National Academy of Sciences. The weight of Explorer IV is 25.76 pounds for the satellite proper, 12.67 pounds for the final stage after burnout, or a total orbiting weight of 38.43 pounds. The dimensions are 34 inches in length for the satellite proper, 46 inches in length for the final-stage motor, or a total length for the orbiting vehicle of 80 inches. The diameter of the satellite and of the final stage is six inches."
"CURRENTLY, there are 334 organization units in the Institute. Comprising this number are 157 Student Branches, 113 Sections, and 64 Subsections. To visit all of these in one year would be impossible, even theoretically."
"YOUNG ENGINEERS entering a field of electrical development and design seldom possess an adequate perspective of the phenomena and facts and methods that are pertinent to that area. Infact, they may have altogether immature notions of the ways by which engineering problems are solved. This is particularly true if their college training has been of a dreary “learning by the book” variety, where procedures and “formulas” may have been derived or accepted without adequate"
"It is very helpful in many types of circuits to arrange the circuit symbols in a pattern that suggests either the physical arrangement or the arrangement of the phasors, or possibly both. This is usually particularly helpful in showing the circuits of a polyphase machine, where the windings themselves are symmetrically arranged in the stator and the voltages are equally displaced. A typical case for a 3-phase generator is shown in Fig. 3."
"“A booming aluminmn industry is demanding ever-increasing blocks of directcurrent power to satisfy the growing ap petite for aluminum. Rectifiei engiireers are faced with the need forincreased increasing eatings in circuit breakers and ignitron tubes as well as improved rectifier circuits and transforirier designs. The AIEE helps me as a transformer design engineer through Its publications which reveal the latest thinking of experienced men concerning these and otherengineering problems. By attending the local meetings of the AIEE, 1 have maintained an interest in fields other than those associated with rectifiers. In addition, these meetings have brought me into contact with members engaged in a variety of engineering pursuits.”"
"THOSE educational activities, which might be termed graduate honors programs and on whichI am qualified to report, all involve the University of Pittsburgh and the Westinghouse Electric Corporation. More specifically, they relate to electrical engineering. I shall report on these, but also speculate to some extent on the future; for I believe that within these programs, there has been maintained a consistent and valuable theme which points the way for the future of the activity."
"The School of Engineering, Louisiana Polytechnic Institute, Ruston, La., annoimces the 7th Annual Instrumentation Conference to be held on the campus, November 6–7. 1958."
"A special office to expand and coordinate university research activities has been established at T h e Catholic University of America (CU), Washington, D.C., according to an announcement made by the rector, Rt. Rev. Msgr. W. J. McDonald."
"THE AIEE Pacific General Meeting was held in Sacramento, Calif., August 19–22, 1958, with headquarters in the Hotel Senator. The program, administered by the Sacramento Section, comprised a full schedule of events consisting of a general session, 15 technical sessions, socialfeatures, inspection trips, student activities, and a golf tournament. In addition, several important committee meetings were held as well as an all-day meeting of the Board of Directors on August 21. The total attendance at the meeting was 611 members and guests."
"ONE OF THE HIGHEST HONORS of the AIEE, that of Honorary Membership in the Institute, has been conferred upon Luigi Emanueli (M '28, F '56, Member for Life), general manager of Pirelli Societa per Azioni, Milan, Italy, ⋅⋅ as one who has rendered acknowledged eminent service toelectrical engineering."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE FIRST meeting of the AIEE Board of Directors, for the administrative year 1958–59, was held in connection with the 1958 Pacific General Meeting in Sacramento, Calif, on Thursday, August 21, 1958. Of the authorized 34, 25 were present. The Board meeting was preceded by meetings of the Constitution and Bylaws and the Planning and Co-ordination Committees on Wednesday"
"A LISTING of the papers presented at the 1958 Pacific General Meeting of the Institute, held August 19–22, in Sacramento, Calif., follows. Copies of numbered papers are available to members for 400 each and to nonmembers for S0(each. Send order and remittance to: AIEE Order Department, 33 W. 39th St., New York 18, N. Y. Papers marked CP∗ have not been printed by the Institute"
"AMERICA is getting the electrical insulation it needs to meet today's ultrahigh temperature requirements because new plastics, chemicals, and other materials are successfully being combined vvith traditional insulators, the National Conference on the Application of Electrical Insulation was told during its meeting held September 3–5, 1958, in Cleveland, Ohio"
"For the nomination of officers to be voted upon in the Spring of 1959, the AIEE Nominating Committee will meet in New York, N. Y., February 2, 1959. The officers to be elected are: a President, a Treasurer, three Directors, and six Vice-Presidents, one from each of the evennumbered geographical Districts. Fellows only are eligible for the office of President: Members and Fellows for the offices of Vice-Presidents, Directors, atrd Treasurer"
"Committee heads have been named for the 1959 Western Joint Computer Conference to be held in San Francisco, Calif., March 3–5."
"FAR OUT on the Atlantic Continental Shelf stand three-legged depots containing computation representing the latest in insurance against surprise air attack. There are some 20 units inthe New England and mid-Atlantic states areaever on the alert for unidentified flying objects"
"THE USE of general purpose digital computers in the simulation of new coding and transmission devices shows promise of accelerating and broadening speech and television research, according to several papers presented recently at the Western Electronics Conference in Los Angeles. In these papers, scientists working in acoustics and television stated that many laboratorystudies it is now possible to avoid construction of very complicated equipment through the useof such simulation."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Monophonic is the word to use when discussing high fidelity sound, not monaural, accordingto Abraham Schwartzman, executive secretary of the Institute of High Fidelity Manufacturers. He explained that this represents the viewpoint of leading high-fidelity component manufacturers and editorial authorities in the field. Growing public interest in stereophonic sound reproduction is one reason for the Institute's desire to use uniform terms in order to minimize possible confusion."
"At a recent ceremony, the Delft, Hoiland, firm of N. V. Nederlandsche Kabel fabriek invited Queen Juliana to open its new High-Voltage Research Laboratory. Shortly after the openingday rites, the delegates who had attended the CIGRE Convention in Paris, France, visited the site as part of a technical post-convention tour."
"A simulator of the Argonne National Laboratory's Experimental Boiling Water Reactor (EBWR) was exhibited at the 2nd International Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy at Geneva, Switzerland, September 1–13, 1958"
"Rays from the sun have long been used for heating and cooking, but direct conversion intoelectric power is a presentday achievement. One of the most recent and dramatic applications for silicon solar cells involves the U.S. Navy's Vanguard satellite on which six clusters of cells were placed symmetrically, converting sunlight of outer space into electric power to operate one radio transmitter"
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy and inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"THE MOTIONS OF SATELLITES are well understood in that the basic fundamentals on which the motions are based go back before the invention of the telescope. Today, the scientists can describe the motions of the satellites with great accuracy."
"SOME OF THE OTHER SPEAKERS will talk about the satellite vehicles and space vehicles. I would like to talk a little about the booster vehicles that get them started, the large, high-thrust rockets that boost them up where they're going. I would like to talk about how to stabilize these things—how to get them pointed where we want them—what some of the problems in stabilizing these things are, and how these problems are likely to change in the future."
"THE PROBLEM of attitude control exists to a certain extent with all kinds of vehicles, missiles, and projectiles. Attitude control is necessary or desirable for at least the following reasons: 1. To provide mental and physical comfort for passengers. 2. To provide proper environment and positioning to allow instrumentation to function. 3. To provide proper alignment for lift surfaces and thrust vectors."
"CONTROLLING THE ATTITUDE of a satellite vehicle should be a simple job. The body behaves as if it were suspended on a frictionless pivot. Control torques can be small. There usually is no need for extreme precision in measurement. And adequate response times are ridiculously low by conventional servo standards."
"THE AGE OF SATELLITES is here. With it has come some interesting attitude control problems. For many uses, it is desirable to have a satellite oriented in a unique attitude with respect to the earth. If such a unique stable attitude exists, the attitude-control problem is reduced to a damping problem. Two methods have been proposed to obtain a stable attitude. These methods use (1) the gradient in the earth's gravitational field, and (2) aerodynamic torques. Each method requires that the vehicle have certain properties. In gravity gradient stabilization, it is necessary that the vehicle have a single axis about which the moment of inertia is a minimum. In the stabilized position, this axis becomes aligned to the vertical.1–4 In aerodynamic stabilization, it is necessary that the center of pressure lie behind the center of mass in the direction of the vehicle's velocity."
"A GREAT DEAL OF ATTENTION is being paid to the celestial mechanics of space flight and the synthesis of systems to control space vehicles, satellites, and missiles. However, no less important is the problem of the practical design and construction of the vehicles and control hardware which will be required to realize our current potentialities in meeting the challenge of space travel. The scope of the discussion to follow will be restricted by omitting consideration of specific instruments, such as inertial components, platforms, etc., and concentrate on the over-all problem of electrical and mechanical design of parts, components, and systems. Consideration will be given to the physical design of control systems as well as power systems required to provide motivating energy. The attributes of reliability and accuracy will also be treated insofar as they affect the aforementioned topics."
"THE PURPOSE of this article is to suggest methods of transfer, utilizing a metal-clad breaker with a 5-cycle closing time, which practically eliminate transfer problems."
"Since 1884, Institute meetings have included paper presentations on the state of the art of insulation. President Hickernell gives quotations from some of these to emphasize the tremendous progress to date, and the continued increase in technical activity throughout the entire field."
"A brief exposition of the activities and progress of the AIEE in the electrical insulation field."
"ADULT LIVESTOCK are considered to be depressed by ambient temperatures above 75 F—the range of optimum temperatures for laying hens is 55 to 65 F, for dairy cows 50 to 60, and for swine 65 to 75."
"The Sharavathi Valley Project has been established to meet the ever-increasing power requirements of the State of Mysore in southwestern India. The project's dam, water conductor system, and surface station, as well as its transmission line, receiving station, and electric equipment, are described."
"Numerous factors must be considered in designing for noise control of domestic appliances. For example, the environment and use are often as important as the actual magnitude and frequency of the noise. Although measurement of sound is relatively simple, effective interpretation of its meaning generally requires a well-trained expert."
"TORSIONAL vibration studies of simple mechanical systems are usually handled by methods which, while not difficult, often require the expenditure of considerable time when done by hand. The use of a digital computer shortens the time considerably. One method frequently used is the Holzer table calculations resulting in the determination of the natural frequencies of the system. Another method is a matrix solution of the differential equations of the system."
"Three types of wiring systems in common use in the pulp and paper industry are evaluated and compared in terms of such important criteria as reliability, safety, installed cost, adaptability, weight, and installation time."
"THE BONNEVILLE Power Administration (BPA) transmission network serves the load areas of Washington, Oregon, northern Idaho, and Montana. It consists of approximately 7,600 miles of transmission lines and 190 substations. In the past 4 years, the number of stations operated by supervisory control has increased from 4 to 23. The majority of the supervisory control equipment in service is operating over power line carrier channels of various types. A few installations operate over leased line and cable, and some equipment has been installed and tested for operation over microwave."
"THE UPPER RAQUETTE RIVER power project is the final phase of a program begun many years ago by the Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation to harness completely the Raquette River of northern New York State for power production purposes."
"The design and reasons for adoption of double-bus switchgear on the Detroit Edison systemare discussed. Its use has resulted in substantial savings in cost and operating advantages ascompared with single-bus switchgear design."
"A “THREE-DIMENSIONAL” RADAR which detects airborne targets at extreme range and which, for the first time, simultaneously computes distance, bearing, and altitude, was unveiled recently by the U. S. Department of the Army at its Washington, D. C., headquarters."
"CONSTANT MAGNETIC FIELDS have commonly been explored with iron filings, a small compass, or search coil together with fluxmeter. Alternating fields have been explored with search coils and by other means."
"Details of three advanced-study courses in nuclear technology which the United States is establishing in existing U. S. Atomic Energy Commission (AEC) facilities for the students of friendly foreign nations were presented to delegates during the 2nd International Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy in Geneva, Switzerland."
"The National Academy of Sciences—National Research Council will again assist the National Science Foundation (NSF) with its eighth regular predoctoral and postdoctoral fellowship programs which have recently been announced by the NSF. The NSF plans to award approximately 1,000 graduate and 200 postdoctoral fellowships in these two programs for scientific study duringthe 1959–60 academic year."
"“Aside from the obvious benefits to be derived from the excellent papers published in Transactions and Electrical Engineering, perhaps the most important phases of AIEE participation are the close association with engineering leaders in committee work and the development of life-long friendships which grow out of the Section and General meetings.”"
"To meet the problem of a scarcity of qualified teachers, especially in a field such as engineering where high industrial salaries lure qualified men from the classrooms, Newark College of Engineering (NCE) has instituted a program which promises real success in helping to solve the dilemma."
"The AIEE Mirrnesota Sectron student paper contest was held this year at the University of North Dakota. The contest was co-sponsored by the Red River Valley Subsection and the University of North Dakota joint branch of AIEE—IRE (Institute of Radio Engineers). Participating schools were; the University of Minnesota, South Dakota State College, North Dakota Agricultural College; and the University of North Dakota."
"THE AIEE Winter General Meeting will be held February 1–6, 1959. Because of the large number of technical sessions covering all six Technical Divisions of the Institute, meetings will take place in both the Statler and the Sheraton-McAlpin Hotels, New York, N.Y. As usual, the Statler will be headquarters for the meeting."
"AS THIS ISSUS goes to press, AIEE has just had the distressing experience of having to cancel a General Meeting. Plans and announcements for the 1958 Fall General Meeting in Pittsburgh, Pa., had all been made. Some 255 papers, the largest number of papers ever presented at a Fall meeting, had been scheduled. Two major medals were to be presented. Panel discussions on timely subjects had been arranged. Several programs were built around the theme of the Bicentennial of the host city, and its civic and research achievements. A record registration was anticipated. Then, on October 1, the employees of the five major hotels in Pittsburgh went out on strike; practically paralyzing the convention facilities of the city."
"THE 1958 Eastern Joint Computer Conference and Exhibit will be held December 3–5, at the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel, Philadelphia, Pa."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A current study of the new United Engineering Center shows that the present planning provides for a 22-story tower occupying 25% of the plot area. This is the maximum allowed under New York City ordinances."
"THE ANNUAL MEETING of the Engineers' Council for Professional Development (ECPD) was held this year on October 9 and 10 at the Jefferson Hotel in St. Louis, Mo. The program followed the usual pattern. The Council, consisting of three representatives of each of the eight participating bodies, met successively in “administrative,” “executive,” and “open” sessions to transact business, accredit engineering curricula, and hear reports from the eight major operatingcommittees. Committee meetings likewise were held both for the conduct of business and, as open sessions, to review and demonstrate the work of the committees for all interested."
"The Power Group Committee of the AIEE Chicago Section opened the 1958–59 year of Section activities with an inspection trip to Hubbard and Company's new research laboratory that is located just southwest of Chicago. The trip was limited to 100 people but shortly after it was announced it became apparent that many more desired to attend. Therefore, the trip was extendedto a second night to accommodate a total of almost 200 for both nights."
"The development of faith, wisdom, and tolerance to levels more nearly the equivalent of our technical prowess is the great challenge facing mankind today. Dr. E. W. Engstrom, senior executive vicepresident of the Radio Corporation of America, said during his address at the 50th Anniversary dinner of the Fort Wayne Section of AIEE."
"HOLDING PROTONS up to energies of 3 billion electron volts—more than the energy of some cosmic rays—calls for a quick, sure way to cool the magnetic holding force."
"HIGH EXPLOSIVES similar to those that blast the tops off of mountains are being used to form aircraft fuel tanks. This information was revealed recently by officials of the Columbus Division of North American Aviation, Inc. (NAA), Columbus, Ohio."
"A MAJOR BREAKTHROUGH in telephone engineering—development of an electronic system that expands two voice channels to as many as 24 without laying any additional cable between exchangeswas announced recently at the annual convention of the United States Independent Telephone Association."
"Electronic “Earmuffs.” Development of an experimental electronic earphone, considered a major breakthrough in noise reduction and designed to create artificial quiet by shutting out loud noises that interfere with combat communications, was announced by the U. S. Department of the Army."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The powerful propulsion system for the 15,000-mph U.S. Air Force-Convair Atlas intercontinental baUistic missile (ICBM) is a cluster of liquid-propellant rocket engines. It consists of a two-chambered booster engine, a sustainer engine for high-altitude efficiency, and two small stabilizing engines. The system, designed and dveloped for the Atlas missile by Rocketdyne, a Division of North American Aviation, Inc., is in production at the main plant in Canoga Park, Calif."
"A five-story aiUomated ferris wheel, controlled by an electronic memory unit, picks up merchandise at a receiving dock and distributes it to the proper floors and stations in a unicjue warehouse in New York City. 1 his ferris wheel is one feature of a system of mechanical devices arid automatic electronic coirtrols that receives merchandise from o\\er 2,000 suppliers, directs its flow through the warehouse and out to 208 stores acioss the coiurtry, shipping an average of 150,000 units a day, with accuracy and speed."
"The U. S. Atomic Energy Commission (AEC), Washington 25, D. C, has released certain information of interest to the general public. These items are noted in the following listing."
"Sweden's largest water power station, the Ume River Stornorrfors plant, is nearing completion (Electrical Engineering, May 1958, p. 474). Shown in photograph is part of the rock generator hall prior to the installation of the machinery equipment. The first generating set was put into operation in September 1958; the second and third will be operating by May 1959, with a total of 375,000 kw. The discharge or tailrace tunnel, which has been blasted out of solid granite, is nearly 214 rniles long, and has a cross section of 4,200 square feet."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"MANY important achievements during the year 1957 have been reported by 30 Committees in the Institute's six Technical Divisions."
"A demonstration laboratory has been set up by the Holophane Company, Inc., for the purpose of teaching the fundamentals of light control. Demonstrations show the “why” of lighting levels, the “how” and “why” of quality in lighting, the principles in the design of visual fields and the use of color, and methods for directing and controlling light to make seeing efficient and easy."
"Ethical standards change with the times, thus guiding the widely different ideals and needs of people into channels beneficial to all. Ethical conduct is the necessary middle road between man's natural inner pressure of selfishness and society's outer pressure for unselfish behavior."
"Advances in chemistry, metallurgy, and mechanics and an increasing rate of production have added to the problems and responsibility of the electrical engineer. These problems are defined in a discussion of a petroleum process plant project."
"A PRIMARY REQUIREMENT in many positioning systems is that errors resulting from large input disturbances be reduced to tolerable values as quickly as possible. For a linear system, this requirement could be satisfied by making the ratio of torque to inertia sufficiently large. However, even with the best servomotor design, this ratio is limited; therefore, to reduce the response time sufficiently, the designer frequently must contend with saturation in the system components and resulting saturated values of available torque."
"Micrometeorite bombardment of artificial earth satellites can be recorded through the use of counters. A description is given of the counter circuitry being developed to record this data."
"AN “ALL-ELECTRIC HOME” cannot be attained without electricity providing comfort through heating and cooling. The economic attainment of this goal is feasible through development of the heat pump. This will be a different load, in its magnitude and characteristics, from the load electric utilities were acquiring in the past."
"Future progress in control systems design will include such activities as data processing, energy controlling, computation, and instrumentation. Control system reliability and higher quality production are also included as general objectives."
"POWER LINE carrier channels used for voice communication normally provide adequate performance. The use of carrier in telemetering, control and protective applications, however, increases the requirements for reliability and immunity to interference. Both these factors may be affected by the method used to couple the carrier signal to and from the power line. It is the purpose of this paper to compare line-to-ground and line-to-line coupling with respect to interference susceptibility and over-all channel attenuation."
"IN ALL COMMONLY USED SYSTEMS of oil preservation for power transformers, the oil surface is exposed to a gas, either air as with a conservator system or nitrogen if the automatic-gas-seal system is used. Where a gas and a liquid are in such contact, some of the gas dissolves into the liquid, the quantity depending upon the kind of gas and liquid and their temperature and pressure. The solubility of nitrogen in transformer oil increases linearly with both pressure and temperature over the relatively narrow ranges encountered in transformer operation."
"PLANS for a new $10 million United Engineering Center to be erected on United Nations Plaza between 47th and 48th Streets in New York City, were announced Thursday evening, November 21, 1957."
"THE AIEE Winter General Meeting, to be held at the Hotel Statler (meeting headquarters) and the Hotel Sheraton- McAlpin, New York, N. Y., February 2–7, 1958, will feature the largest technical program in the history of the Institute. The social activities, for which the Winter General Meeting is well known, will again be outstanding. A group of varied and interesting inspection trips has been arranged closely allied with the technical sessions."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researcher"
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE JOINT ASSEMBLY of Engineers' Council for Professional Development (ECPD) and Engineers Joint Council (EJC) was held October 24–25, 1957, in the Hotel Statler, New York, N. Y. Four panel sessions on the subjects of the attitude survey, the community college of technological education, the place of the engineer in management, and new dimensions in post graduate education for the young engineer were held during the two-day Assembly, as well as two luncheon meetings and the Silver Anniversary Dinner commemorating the 25th Anniversary of ECPD. Meetings of the Council and its committees were held in parallel with the Assembly program."
"J. H. Craig, chairman of the Award Organization Committee of Eta Kappa Nu, national electrical engineering honor society, has announced that R. P. Crago of Kingston, N. Y., has been named as the “Outstanding Young Electrical Engineer of 1957” in its annual nation-wide talent search. Mr. Craig also announced that Dr. W. R. Beam of Hamilton Square, N. J., and G. W. Stagg of Jackson Heights, N. Y., received Honorable Mention awards. The 1957 award is the 22nd in the series which began in 1936. Formal presentation of the awards will be made at a banquet to be held February 3, 1958, during the Winter General Meeting of the AIEE in New York, N. Y."
"E.H. Anson, president of the American Institute of Consulting Engineers, presents its Award of Merit to D.A. Quarles (HM '56), Deputy Secretary of Defense and past president of AIEE (1952-53) at their Annual Dinner on October 15, 1957, at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel, New York, N. Y. The citation reads \"Able Administrator, noted Scientist, Leader in research, distinguished Engineer, dedicated Public Servant, and an outstanding example of how scientific training, broad technical experience, and conscientious endeavor can be combined successfully to meet the demands of Enlightened Government in a Free economy.\""
"The Edison Medal Committee of the AIEE has awarded the Edison Medal for 1957 to J. K. Hodnette (AM '25, M '30, F '42), vice-president and general manager (chief operating officer), Westinghouse Electric Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pa. The presentation of the medal will take place during the general session of the 1958 Winter General Meeting, at the Hotel Statler, New York, N. Y."
"EDITOR'S NOTE: This department has been created for the convenience of the various AIEE technical committees and ivill include brief news reports of committee activities. Items for this department, which should be as short as possible, should be forwarded to R. S. Gardner at AIEE Headquarters, 33 West 39th Street, Neiu York 18, N. Y."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"THE STUDENT BRANCH of the AIEE at the University of Santa Clara, Santa Clara, Calif., was granted its charter October 15, 1926. A joint AIEE-Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE) Student Branch was established November 13, 1956. Meetings are held twice a month with either a guest speaker or a fdm on some pertinent phase of electrical engineering. Inasmuch as the University is located in the San Francisco Bay area, there are many opportunities for interesting and educational field trips to industrial manufacturing plants and laboratories. On the University campus is located the eighth of the early California missions (right). Originally founded by Father de la Pena and the Spanish Franciscans in 1777, it became the University of Santa Clara in 1851. It was the first college west of the Mississippi River. The University's College of Engineering was founded in 1912 and has grown rapidly in the last few years. Plans are being made for the construction of a new engineering building in order to meet this increased enrollment."
"TO EDUCATE increasing numbers of young Canadians for the atomic age, Canada's first subcritical atomic reactor for educational purposes will shortly be installed in the faculty of applied science and engineering at the University of Toronto."
"Future scientists and engineers for the nation's great industrial empire will sit down together in June 1958 at several colleges and universities to learn the whys and hows of this complex world."
"“I would like to urge upon all electrical engineers, and especially students and young engineers, active participation in the AIEE. It will be worth your while, and it is part of your obligation to your profession. You need the AIEE, for it will afford you: wider sources of information, more varied personal associations, broader stimulation to achievement, and less formal contact with your seniors than you have in your daily job."
"The annual joint meeting of the St. Louis Section of AIEE with the student branches of the Missouri School of Mines, St. Louis University, Washington University, and the University of Missouri was held October 18, 1957, in Columbia, Mo."
"Electrical engineering students and faculty representatives from four Michigan universities met at the University of Detroit on October 25, 1957, for the AIEE Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE) Inter- University Student Convention."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"CLIMAXING a 25-year search by the electrical industry, scientists have recently announced a new kind of magnetic steel which allows magnetism to turn around corners, and which promises to improve the performance and simplify the construction of electric apparatus."
"ROTI (recording optical tracking instrument) is now being used to photograph missiles in the earlier stages of their flight after launching from the U.S. Air Force Missile Test Center's (AFMTC) Cape Canaveral, Fla., launching site."
"SCIENTISTS at the University of Chicago and Argonne National Laboratory (ANL) have proved, with the aid of an Argonne nuclear reactor, that the law of “parity conservation” does not apply in the radioactive decay of the neutron. The research was supported by the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission (AEC)."
"The existence in Beverly Hills, Calif., of an Inhabited High Vacuum Laboratory which has already simulated the pressure conditions that prevail 95 miles above the Earth was publicly confirmed in a joint announcement by the U.S. Air Force Office of Scientific Research (OSR), sponsors of the project, and Litton Industries, electronics firm which conceived and designed the new laboratory."
"Niobium has moved a step closer toward its expected use in rockets, missiles, jet engines, and nuclear reactors of the future, it was stated by Westinghouse scientists who have developed a technique for the preparation of this rare and littleknown chemical element. Preparation of the metal in its purest possible form is essential to a basic understanding of the properties that make it of interest as a high-temperature structural metal. The high-purity niobium was produced by a metallurgical process discovered at the Westinghouse Research Laboratories near Pittsburgh, Pa., and called “cage zone melting.” It has produced the purest niobium ever made on a scale large enough for realistic scientific study of the ultrapure metal."
"A completely self-contained, automatic landing system (ALS) has been developed and successfully tested by Autonetics, a Division of North American Aviation, Inc., the U. S. Air Force announced recently."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, doublespaced, not carbon copies. Illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy and inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this publication."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The functional plan for organization of the Engineering Profession is not a new plan. It has been referred to as the “AIEE Plan,” the “Coover Plan,” and the “San Francisco Plan.” The purpose of this article is to clarify the intent of the plan and to remove certain misunderstandings which have arisen."
"A sound approach to the assurance of safe nuclear power plant operation consists both of the use of thoroughly trained operating personnel and the provision of adequate reactor control systems. A description is given of several of the important operating positions in a nuclear plant, and methods of training and evaluating personnel for these important jobs."
"Growing complexity of frequency spectrum allocation problems since World War II, caused mainly by rapid television growth, has brought about formation of an FCC-suggested television industry-wide organization (TASO) to study the engineering factors involved. The general objectives and progress of the Television Allocations Study Organization to date are discussed by its executive director."
"Taso's systems concept integates information obtained by its panels into a form that can be most useful to the FCC for allocation purposes. The essential elements of the system are discussed and the contributions of some of the panels to this system are presented."
"SINCE THE INSTALLATION of the first 60-mw turbine-generator with a supercharged rotor in 1951, a substantial number of large conductor-cooled machines have been placed in operation, and many more are under construction. However, very little has been published of the details of calculation peculiar to this type of cooling."
"A relation is derived from classical electromagnetics which dimensionally relates a mechanical quantity, force, to an electrical quantity, voltage. A set of three dimensions—length, time, and the square root of force—result, which are sufficient to present dimensionally a unified theory of electromechanics. The extension of dimensional theory and unified theory is also discussed."
"MOBILE SUBSTATIONS have been used in various forms for more than 20 years. Initially, it was usually a standby or emergency device and particularly in conjunction with the increasing use of 3-phase transformers."
"Lightning flashover trip-out rate for 138-kv double circuit towers designed for one ground wire is far in excess of rate anticipated by Commonwealth Edison Company when installed in 1954. Results of studies are presented on the cause of these trip-outs. Significant differences in performance associated with change in design are pointed up."
"IN RECENT YEARS renewed interest has developed in the effect of lightning on electrical transmission lines. The most vital characteristic of lightning in most methods of calculating its effect is the current measured at the ground terminal. A large amount of data is available about the stroke current crest magnitude and a considerable amount of data is available which covers the time-to-crest of the stroke current. Despite these data there is still controversy over the time-to-crest. Measurements in the region of a microsecond are admittedly difficult. The industry is still seeking new data. In approaching this problem, it was felt that it might be conducive of results to analyze the mechanism of the return stroke and then, from the factors governing the mechanism, try to synthesize the stroke. Perhaps certain limits to the rate of rise could be ascertained. Some of the characteristics of the component factors could be obtained in the laboratory, others by computation. It was with this in mind that the present investigation was undertaken."
"Vacuum switching, which has attracted considerable attention recently in the public utility field, is actually far from a new concept. Much of the work done over the past 35 years in the development of the vacuum switch is reviewed."
"A circuit is described which will automatically provide an electric signal each time a power fuse blows, and also will provide a second distinct electric signal after a predetermined number of fuses have operated in a group of parallel cells."
"The design requirements of unattended gas turbine pumping units in the Arabian desert under supervisory control from bases 50 to 90 miles away posed a heavy engineering challenge. The novel problems and their solution are described."
"SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES always contain a junction; i.e., a plane zone of vanishing thickness. Current pulses through the device generate heat, mostly in the zone, from which it diffuses into the adjoining metallic body. Heat causes an increase of temperature in the junction, depending on the size of the current pulse and the rate of heat dissipation. Measurements on alloy junction diodes lead to a curve of temperature rise against pulse duration which does not agree with any single theory of heat transfer. Investigating the problem reveals the need to consider a multitude of factors (materials, dimensions, shapes) which cannot be fitted to a single mathematical model. Satisfactory analysis, without undue complications, can be achieved in four successive steps, described in Table I. Considering each step, we assume that the preceding step is transferring heat at a steady rate (i.e., neglecting heat storage) and the following step is not yet subjected to a significant heat flow. Careful selection of boundaries and time limits leads to a valid approximation; or, inversely, an observed pulse-time characteristic can be interpreted by the theory to gain an insight into the modes of internal heat transfer."
"PROMINENT ENGINEERING FIGURES have demonstrated their support of the campaign for funds for the new United Engineering Center, to be erected on United Nations Plaza between 47th and 48th Streets, New York City, by the following statements:"
"A CHECK FOR $15,000 was presented Thursday evening, December 5, to the United Engineering Trustees, Inc. (UET) for the projected United Engineering Center by the New York Section of AIEE, in ceremonies in the Western Union Company Auditorium, New York, N. Y. The presentation was made to W. J. Barrett, president of UET, and president of AIEE, by R. W. Gillette, chairman of the New York Section, AIEE, on behalf of the Section's Divisions."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"SUNDAY AFTERNOON, December 1, 1957, W. J. Barrett, president of AIEE, unveiled a bronze bust of George Westinghouse for the Hall of Fame for Great Americans at New York University (NYU). A bust of Josiah Willard Gibbs also was unveiled at the ceremony, witnessed by more than 1,000 persons, which took place in the Gould Memorial Library Auditorium on the University Heights campus of NYU."
"THE ATOMIC ENERGY INDUSTRY of the United States will demonstrate its progress in the uses of nuclear energy for the benefit of the western world during the 1958 Nuclear Congress, March 17–21, 1958, at the International Amphitheater, Chicago, Ill."
"AS A SERVICE TO AIEE members, by arrangement with the Pergamon Institute, a nonprofit organization, the translations of four leading Soviet scientific and engineering journals in the fields of power transmission, communications, and electronics, are now available."
"The board of examiners, at its recent meeting recommended the members listed for transfer to the grade of membership indicated. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the national secretary."
"THE AIEE STUDENT BRANCH at Northeastern University, Boston, Mass., was granted its charter in 1922 with 70 students in electrical engineering. The Joint Student Branch of AIEE-Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE) was chartered in July 1950. Currently, there are more than 700 students enrolled in electrical engineering, attending Northeastern under the co-operative plan of education."
"WE ARE LIVING in the world of electronics and atomic energy, the jet airplane, the guided missile, the earth satellite, the digital computer, the automatic factory, and, unfortunately, the hydrogen bomb. I have set myself the task of talking about that part of this amazing world which belongs to the electrical engineer. I would like to start by drawing a picture of the electrical engineer's world of today as I see it and to finish by drawing some very general conclusions as to the preparation a young electrical engineer should have before he is launched on his career in this world."
"The AIEE is important to me as an educator for at least 10 reasons"
"More than 6,000 secondary school and college students, as well as adult members of the community, attended a 5-day atomic energy exposition at Union College in Schenectady, N. Y., October 25–30, 1957."
"The University of Texas Student Branch of AIEE-Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE) went all out this year in an attempt to enroll all junior and senior students of electrical engineering in AIEE."
"MORE THAN 75,000 pounds of thrust is developed by the liquid propellant rocket engine which has been put into production by Rocketdyne, a Division of North American Aviation, Inc., of Canoga Park, Calif., for the U.S. Army's midrange giant Redstone missile. This is a towering 62-foot rocket weapon measuring 6 feet in diameter."
"AN AMPLIFIER which may extend the range of radio telescopes 10 times farther out among the galaxies has been developed in the Gordon McKay Laboratory of Applied Science at Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass."
"THE TALOS guided missile demonstrated publicly for the first time recently features a “traffic light” test system that tells when the weapon is ready for firing."
"DEVELOPMENT of the world's fastest print-out equipment, a device which will greatly accelerate the electronic processing and printing of computer data, was announced recently by Stromberg-Carlson, a Division of General Dynamics Corporation, and by The Haloid Company."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The AEC has approved for use in its facilities and those of its contractors new maximum permissible radiation exposures recommended by the National Committee on Radiation Protection and Measurement (NCRPM)."
"A new, highly portable, tactical early warning (TEW) system-which promises to extend radically the nation's tactical defense perimeters-has been developed for the U.S. Marine Corps by the Sperry Gyroscope Co., it was revealed recently."
"Four pieces of laminated plastic, each smaller than a dime, meet severe weight, temperature, and dimensional stability requirements when used as insulating spacers in an earth satellite instrument that will measure radiation reflected by the earth's cloud layer."
"An electronic weapon in the fight against blindness was announced recently by Dr. Charles Burrows, vice president for engineering, Ford Instrument Company. The device assists surgeons in the delicate operation of reattaching retinas."
"One of the hopeful ways of speeding man's search for knowledge about himself and his environment is to apply electronic digital computers to basic research in a university setting, it was asserted in a progress report made by the Computer Center at the University of Pennsylvania."
"The first practical robot cashier which will accept a dollar bill and make change automatically has been unveiled by a Chicago, Ill., scientist."
"Improvements in road engineering and automobile construction are steadily diminishing demands on the human driver and reducing hazards resulting from mechanical failure. Accident hazards, however, are increasing with the frequent long-distance driving on modern turnpikes, where the driver has to do little more than maintain a fixed speed on a fixed course."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"First Atomic Lamp Production Models. Representatives of the world's nuclear energy industry have seen the first production models of a new line of “atomic lamps” which provide power-free, uninterrupted illumination for periods up to 10 years. The lamps, called Isolites, were developed by United States Radium Corporation, Hanover Ave., Morristown, N. J."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Management, in recent years, has become more and more concerned with projects requiring the use of engineering judgment. Thus, the engineer is playing an increasingly important role in the field of industrial management. The experiences of two typical firms—one large and one small—are described."
"IN RECENT YEARS, the job of managing a large industrial organization has become an increasingly complex and taxing assignment. Technological advances have called for a broad variety of specialized skills. The growth of the labor movement and the increasing responsibilities of management to Government, to employees, and to the public, have placed many relatively new burdens on the business executive."
"A PARTNER in a management consulting firm suggests that the embryo of a new industrial company is composed of a good salesman who has become dissatisfied with the scope of his activity and an able foreman whom he selects as superintendent. These two men start a new company. This is basically a sound beginning, provided that there is a product, process, or service available which can be marketed at a profit. As growth follows hard work and imaginative policies, it becomes impossible for the original owner to satisfy the demands for his time adequately. Key men are assigned progressively in management positions as the company grows."
"The considerable difference between the predicted flashover rate as calculated by the AIEE method and the actual flashover rate on the OVEC system over a 2-year period has forced a re-evaluation of present procedures for estimating lightning flashovers on transmission lines. Data and preliminary conclusions are set forth based on the first year of the field investigation."
"SWITCHING CIRCUIT SYNTHESIS presents two basic problems to the engineer. First, he must be able to obtain a circuit which will function according to the input-output specifications. Second, the circuit must be economical in the use of switching components."
"“… for his significant contributions to the electrical industry through creative design and development of transformer apparatus which marked new advances in protection, performance and service. For his vision, judgment and management skill which fostered and achieved the practical application of his ideas with resulting advancements in the electrical industry.”"
"THE EDISON MEDAL was founded by an organization of Thomas A. Edison's associates and friends, who hoped that it would serve “as an honorable incentive to scientists, engineers and artisans to maintain by their works the high standard of accomplishment” which had been set by Mr. Edison."
"JOHN K. HODNETTE, who was born and spent his early years on a farm in Alabama, used to recall this little bit of folk lore: On hot days, if you looked out over the fields of that southern farm through the rising heat waves and saw something moving, it was generally a tree stump–not a man."
"I THANK YOU, Walter, for all those kind and rather embarrassing words in my praise. I don't believe half of what you said, but I am comforted by the well-known fact that praise never hurts anyone–so long as you don't inhale."
"“Trees,” or microscopic channels extending partly or wholly through a wall of insulation, represent a characteristic form of latent damage. Results are given of studies made on this phase of dielectric breakdown in polyethylene."
"AS IN THE CASE of other utilities located in densely populated areas, the Philadelphia Electric Company is faced with serious right-of-way problems. Because a major portion of the transmission and distribution plant is in the vicinity of public highways, a particular challenge is presented by the problems associated with many new bridges over railroads, streets, and depressed highways. In the 5-year period now ending, there have been constructed in this territory a total of 200 bridges, with significant potentialities for existing and proposed underground facilities."
"THE DESIGN of intercity trunks under conditions of nation-wide dialing and the greater number of permissible links between terminal offices has required a reappraisal of transmission objectives, including terminal return losses."
"Television Allocation Study Organization's (TASO) Panels 1 and 2 are concerned with the television transmitting and television receiving equipment arts respectively. The general problems and specific studies undertaken for a critical evaluation of VHF and UHF to obtain data for the FCC are set forth."
"A transmission testing set for high-speed data circuits is described. It is an electronic, transistorized device for laboratory use in the development of binary data transmission systems."
"AN APPARATUS has been developed for the purpose of detecting and locating the presence of small voids or air pockets in rubber or plastic cable insulation. This is especially important in cases where the operating voltage of the cable is high enough to ionize the gas in these void spaces, because continued ionization may eventually erode or burn its way through the insulation, and result in cable failure."
"THE NATION-WIDE SWITCHING of intertoll trunks by switching machines instead of manual interconnection at toll switchboards requires many new and improved transmission circuits and equipment arrangements associated with the new switching systems at selected major switching centers. The assurance of satisfactory transmission performance on a high percentage of interconnections requires the establishment of a fundamental switching plan."
"The background for application of the gas turbine to the utility field is described. Experience gained with such units, the difficulties encountered and the remedies taken are set forth. An attempt is made to predict further developments based on the newest improvements and research."
"Regardless of its operational advantages, railway electrification, if it is to be used, should be justified economically. A simple, straightforward method is described for the computation of costs of railway electrification relative to diesel-electric operation."
"Considerable importance has been placed on various types of integrals applied as performance criteria for analyzing and synthesizing servomechanisms."
"THE STUDENT BRANCH OF AIEE at Clemson College, Clemson, S. C, was organized in December 1912, under the leadership of Dr. Walter Merritt Riggs, the College president and a Fellow of the Institute. At that time, there were 302 students in the School of Engineering and two staff members in the electrical engineering department. Today, there are over 450 students enrolled in electrical engineering alone and the electrical staff has increased to 1 1. The eight degree-granting departments of the School of Engineering-agricultural, architecture, ceramic, chemical, civil, electrical, industrial, and mechanical-occupy four buildings, one of which, Riggs Hall, main engineering building, is shown at the left. Last year, the large entering class of engineers increased the percentage of engineering students to 58.7%."
"THE LETTER which follows, dated December 17, 1957, is addressed to Dr. J. R. Killian, Jr., Special Assistant to the President for Science and Technology, The White House, Washington, D. C."
"Top officials of the National Society of Professional Engineers (NSPE) laid plans at a meeting in Kansas City, Mo., to implement their new nation-wide scholarship program."
"“Membership in the AIEE has meant much to me and can be summarized in three categories. First: I have kept up on progress not only in my field of specialization, but also in the other fields. The tremendous breadth of Institute interests and activities is of inestimable professional value. Second: Since the conduct of our technical program demands all sorts of operational and administrative activities, Institute membership has offered exceptional opportunities for personal development in these areas. Last: I value the personal contacts-many have deepened into close friendships. Associating with colleagues just starting, well along, and rounding out their professional careers is a stimulating, satisfying part of AIEE membership.”"
"In recognition of the urgent need for basic research in the measurement and automatic control aspects of aeronautics, the Foundation for Instrumentation Education and Research (FIER) has awarded a grant of $1,200 to the newly established Aerodynamics Physical Measurements Laboratory at Stanford University. According to Dr. F. E. Terman, dean of engineering and provost of the University, the grant will be matched with a similar sum by Stanford and will be used for “the development of a shock tube and associated high-speed photographic equipment for taking schlieren and shadow pictures of shock waves and for making other specialized aerodynamic measurements.”"
"TULSA, oil capital of the world and center of the “Magic Empire” region of northeastern Oklahoma, will be host to the AIEE District No. 7 Annual Meeting, March 31-April 2, 1958."
"THE TENTATIVE PROGRAM of the Nuclear Engineering and Science Conference of the 1958 Nuclear Congress to be held at the International Amphitheatre, Chicago, Ill., March 17–21, follows. This Congress, sponsored by the American Nuclear Society and over 30 national engineering and scientific societies including the AIEE, is the fourth of such meetings. The Congress is co-ordinated by Engineers' Joint Council."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE AMERICAN POWER CONFERENCE, sponsored by Illinois Institute of Technology in co-operation with 13 universities and 10 local and national engineering societies, including the AIEE, will be held March 26–28, 1958, at the Sherman Hotel in Chicago, Ill."
"“ENGINEERING in the Nation's Capital” has been selected as the theme for the AIEE Middle Eastern District Meeting to be held in Washington, D. C, April 28–30, 1958. Headquarters for the meeting will be the Sheraton Park Hotel."
"A first-hand demonstration of “Management in Action” will be offered to participants in the 6th Annual Management Conference in Boston, Mass., March 19–20, according to conference Chairman J. D. Bird. The meeting, jointly sponsored by AIEE and The American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), will integrate lectures and field trips in order that attendees may hear of the latest management techniques and see them in action, said Mr. Bird."
"Aspects of automation in the paper and pulp industry will be part of the program heard by some 200 ranking electrical engineers and their industry associates when they assemble March 27–28 at North Carolina State College, Raleigh, N. C, for the annual Conference sponsored by the AIEE Pulp and Paper Industry Subcommittee."
"Conference papers listed below have been accepted for AIEE Transactions and are now open for written discussion until March 28. Duplicate doublespaced typewritten copies of each discussion should be sent to E. C. Day, Assistant Secretary for Technical Papers, American Institute of Electrical Engineers, 33 West 39th St., New York 18, N. Y., on or before March 28."
"The Board of Examiners at its meeting of January 16, 1958, recommended the following applications for transfer. Any objection to these transfers should be filed at once with the Secretary of the Institute. A statement of valid reasons for such objections must be furnished and will be treated as confidential."
"SUPERSONIC combat plane is flown by computer in major scientific advance in aerial defense against possible H-bomb attack. Hughes Aircraft Company test pilot, R. R. Carson, inspects prototype test model installed in F-102A, U. S. Air Force all-weather interceptor."
"AN AIRBORNE miniaturized digital computer that can fly a U.S. Air Force jet interceptor airplane, first defense against the airborne H-bomb, through all phases of supersonic combat, from take-off to touchdown, leaving the pilot free to make tactical decisions has become a major factor in United States scientific advance."
"DIRECT CONVERSION of heat energy into electric energy has been achieved in a unique electronic device developed at the General Electric (GE) Research Laboratory, it was announced recently."
"A new field of practical nuclear research was opened recently when, for the first time, a silicone-insulated motor was deliberately exposed to a radioactive source. Culminating over a year's study of radiation effects on the physical and electrical properties of individual silicone materials, the motor test leads off investigations into the radiation effects on complete electrical insulating systems made by the Dow Corning Corporation, Midland, Mich."
"At the National Bureau of Standards (NBS) many types of investigations are constantly carried out. The three items mentioned have been investigated at the NBS Boulder Laboratories."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The Inventor's Exhibition, a noncommercial organization, is inviting all those that would like to exhibit their inventions to participate in the planning and showing of American Section of the 7th International inventors' exhibition. The group is organized with the express purpose of enabling inventors, patent owners, patent negotiators, and technical offices to get in direct contact with industrialists for the sale or negotiation of patents."
"A 30% increase by 1961 in industry sales of electric motors and generatorsone of the barometers of the nation's economy-was predicted by a General Electric Company (GE) executive recently."
"At a recent joint meeting of the American Society of Metals and the American Welding Society chapters in Washington, D. C, a paper was presented by J. B. Jones, president of Aeroprojects Incorporated, West Chester, Pa., entitled, “Ultrasonic Welding of High-Temperature and Corrosion-Resistant Materials.”"
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, doublespaced, not carbon copies. Illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy and inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Molded Transformers with Epoxy Resins. A line of molded transformers using epoxy resins, Type CPE, for indoor or outdoor metering applications has been introduced. According to the manufacturer these units are recommended for use with watt-hour meters or other applications where exceptionally high accuracy at low burdens is required. The units are interchangeable with current transformers, meeting dimensions of Edison Electric Institute meter and service committee specifications for 600-volt transformers. They meet all other association accuracy standards. The CPE is a window type transformer, but can be supplied with round or flat bar primary conductors, also with mounting brackets for switchboard use. Write to Standard Transformer Company, 1.43 Dana St., Warren, Ohio."
"Specialized Products Booklet. “Sky High to Ocean Blue,” a 12-page 2-color booklet, discusses in words and illustrations the specialized drives and motors engineered and built to the toughest. industrial and Government specifications by Reliance Electric and Engineering Company. Copies of the booklet, designated Bulletin A-2400, may be had free by writing to Reliance Electric and Engineering Company, 24701 Euclid Ave., Cleveland 17, Ohio."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"September 22–24, 1958 are the dates of the forthcoming Third Annual Symposium and Exhibits on Telemetry and Remote Control to be held in Miami, Fla. Chairman Homer Denius, assisted by Conrad Hoeppner and a group of capable committees, has planned the largest and most complete meeting of our group to date. Just three years ago it was decided that the PGTRC should sponsor an annual meeting of its own in lieu of the former arrangement of participating in a co-sponsored meeting. This plan has enabled the subject matter of our meetings to be more nearly matched to the interests of the Group. The first two annual meetings have been enthusiastically attended and the subject matter presented at them has been of wide interest."
"Progress in the fields of telemetry and remote control reported during 1956 and 1957 is summarized under the headings: data processing, data storage, digital transmission equipment, millivolt telemeter equipment, multiplexing methods and equipment, radio transmission and systems, remote control, theory and analysis, transducers, and transistorized telemeter equipment."
"Kenneth M. Uglow, author of the paper “Noise and Bandwidth in FM/FM Radio Telemetering” which appeared on pages 19–22 of the May, 1957 issue of these TRANSACTIONS, has requested the editors to make the following correction to his paper."
"The following is a bibliography which was compiled by the author while he was Director of Research at Applied Research, Inc., Chicago, Ill. He has been kind enough to allow the publication of this bibliography for the convenience of the workers in the telemetry field. It covers much of the basic material of importance in the art of telemetry today. — The Editor"
"This paper studies a system of FM detection suggested by work done in optimum-demodulation theory, and a summary of the problems of ordinary discriminators is made so that possible improvement may be demonstrated readily. This summary points out an important defect of FM discriminators which affects the data accuracy of the telemeter but which is rarely recognized. The system study deals with generalized optimum filtering for transient signals applicable to commutated signals and operators such as discrimination. The solution for particular applications with respect to the phase-locked loop or optimum-demodulation system is offered. With these applications available, noise and transient signals are studied to see how the system fits the practical system. Normalized charts are made which may be applied to any standard telemetering channel that may be designed. A comparison of this system with ordinary discriminators shows a large threshold improvement and a reduction in over-all system error. Graphs of the comparison of these effects are also included. Heuristic suggestions of application are offered for further study."
"This article, which presents some of the considerations which would have to be made in telemetering information from space vehicles, was presented at the 1957 National Symposium on Telemetering on April 14–16, 1957. This paper did not appear in the Symposium Proceedings, and is therefore being reprinted here. — The Editor"
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"GOOD morning, ladies and gentlemen. It is a pleasure indeed for me to see such a group as this here today. It is doubly a pleasure, for we were not at all certain that such a project as this would meet with such good response."
"EVERY profession has its own special language or dialect. Sometimes the resemblance of a professional dialect to everyday English seems purely coincidental. It looks like everyday English or sounds like English but the meaning keeps tantalizingly out of reach. The language of professional educators is often heid up as an example, variously called “pedaguese” or “linguaccio.” The language of government bureaus is another — “gobbledygook.” Sometimes the language of engineers is not far behind in its technical use of familiar words like “stress” or “frequency” as well as in its use of highly technical unfamiliar words. So far as I know it doesn't have a special nickname. But ever since my first teaching job in the College of Architecture and Engineering at the university of Minnesota thirty years ago I have thought of it as the language of “stress-and-strain,” paralleling in some ways the name of a period of German literature — the “Sturm und Drang” or “storm and stress” period. Sometimes I even suspect a kind of Germanic cast in its often un-English sentence structure, which would not be entirely strange when we think of the extent to which German technology and scholarship have contributed to our own. The author of a satirical article on “Broken English” in those playful birthday celebrations honoring Niels Bohr gives a beautiful example: “This is the moment when the frog into the water jumps,' one of my teachers used to say at the critical spot in a mathematical proof.”1"
"TODAY there is an increasing invasion by professional editors into the field of technical writing. It is the task of these editors to take the rough draft prepared by engineers and scientists for use in manuals, government reports, and internal memos, and produce an accurate, smooth-reading version of the original text. As a result of this invasion there has developed a considerable skill among these professional editors in the procedural task of approaching the common engineering rough draft and from it producing the smooth final draft. This experience is real and can be described. The gist of this paper is an attempt to hand over the techniques developed by the professional editor to the engineer or scientist so that he may, in part at least, produce in his original draft a somewhat more refined product than he now does, if this technique can be transferred, the rough drafts will, of course, be smoother; the engineer will have been forced to prepare his material more carefully, which has a beneficial effect upon the engineering thinking; and the final writing will, as a result, be closer to the engineer when it is published and read. Probably the most satisfactory way for me to demonstrate the tricks of the trade of the technical editor would be to define first the function of an editor and then to show some of his techniques."
"I WAS pleased and honored to be asked to deliver a keynote address at the first meeting of the Professional Group on Engineering Writing and Speech, and only business of the most urgent kind could have called me away. I have, however, tried to put what I wanted to say in black and white, and I hope that the spirit of my remarks will reach you even if my voice is missing."
"This material was prepared for leisurely oral presentation in six and one-half minutes. The style and content have been selected for this purpose rather than for written publication. (A reading of the manuscript will indicate the reasons why a note of this sort seems appropriate.)"
"I AM pleased and honored to have been asked to speak at the opening symposium of the Professional Group on Engineering Writing and Speech. Those of your members who were the driving force behind this new professional group are to be congratulated for recognizing the need for such a group, and the rest of you deserve a great big hand for attending and for realizing that there is still something to be learned in the art of communication. The ability to communicate effectively by means of the written or spoken word can make you a more valuable individual to yourself and to those with whom you come in contact each day."
"THE PROCEEDINGS OF THE IRE is the official monthly publication of the Institute of Radio Engineers. As such it is a primary instrument for carrying out the major objective of the IRE — the advancement of the theory and practice of radio and allied branches of engineering and science."
"THE electronics industry has skyrocketed from a 77 million dollar baby in 1932 to a 6.9 billion dollar young man in 1957 — an increase of about 8500 percent in 25 years."
"IT should be obvious by now that to write acceptable editorial material for any publication, you need to have some knowledge of its publishing philosophy and its reader audience. It is not enough to know what audience is reached, but it is essential to know the kind of editorial impact made upon the reader. In any case it would be best to project your article idea in the form of an outline or synopsis (a query) rather than toss a finished manuscript over the transom at the editors. If this isn't done, one may be subjecting his manuscript to a very substantial job of recasting to fit the reader audience."
"Because Mr. Hoyler's talk was primarily a demonstration of how operating equipment can be used to improve audience interest and reaction, publication of his manuscript would serve little use without the added sights and sounds which accompanied his words. Therefore, we are printing instead a report on his talk prepared by a member of PGEWS who attended the Symposium. — The Editor."
"“DO I have an answer to a problem that would help other electronic equipment designers?” If you answer this question “yes,” you are wanted as an author for Electronic Design. Once you've said yes, you have only to follow a mechanical procedure to prepare an article."
"FIRST of all, I'd like to say — and really say it in a way that makes you know I mean it — I'm glad to be here. I was selected to give this talk; it was not my choice. However, when I saw the topic, I found it was one that I feel deeply about. I feel this way, by way of introduction to my subject:"
"MANY of you last year undoubtedly saw the Disneyland television show called “Our Friend the Atom.” It explained the principles of nuclear reactions. It was first rate in every way; it had an interesting story. It was very well done. Lots of Disney animation and a real honest-to-gosh German scientist as a narrator. It also had a very first-class price tag: $16,000 a minute was supposed to be the cost and since it ran about 55 minutes, that means close to $900,000."
"The following abstracts cover the papers presented at the PGEWS session of the 1958 IRE National Convention on Monday, March 24, at 2:30 P.M., Morse Hall, New York Coliseum, New York, N.Y."
"It is recognized that the PGIT has achieved at least two of its essential objectives, those of technical stature and a unique identity within its professional society. The evolution of our editorial policies and the high standards that have been achieved for publication of our Transactions when combined with the several outstanding symposia that have been sponsored by the PGIT give us a great deal of which to be proud."
"The measurements made on a system containing noise are usually time averages of the signals, or of quantities defined in terms of the signals. Such measurements are called time statistics. The object of this paper is to develop the theory of time statistics and in turn to give methods for calculating them. For the most part the time statistics are formulated in terms of ensemble statistics which are usually provided by statistical mechanics. If a process consists of, say, all physically realizable models of a system containing noisy resistors, there is no practical way to identify which model one has available for \"testing.\" Thus, a time statistic measured with the available model will not be predictable unless this statistic is the same for almost all the models; when this is the case, the process is called uniform1 for this statistic. A dual property is in common use for ensemble statistics. The process is called stationary for an ensemble statistic, provided it is the same at all times. Though some discussion of stationarity is given in this paper, the emphasis is on not requiring stationarity. In particular, special attention is given to nonstationarity introduced by determinate signals. While stationarity plays only a minor role in the theory of the time statistics of noise, uniformity plays a crucial role. Given only uniformity, Theorem 1 formulates time statistics as the time average of the corresponding ensemble statistics. The additional condition of stationarity merely simplifies the calculation by rendering the \"ergodic hypothesis\" satisfied, i.e., by rendering equality of time and ensemble statistics. With Theorem 1 as a nucleus, the remainder of the paper attempts to develop an understanding of what makes a process uniform. There is no attempt to give detailed proofs, but there is an effort to maintain a clear distinction between physical motivations, the definitions, and the theorems. Some elementary sample calculations of practical interest are included; these serve to illustrate several parts of the theory. Though calculations involving such problems as the evaluation of difficult integrals do arise in some applications of the theory, simple samples have been used here, since they are adequate as an aid to understanding the theory."
"An n-place binary parity check code which corrects up to and including e errors in each code letter is fully described by its n characteristics, which are r-dimensional vectors, where r is the number of redundant binits in each code letter. It is shown that the characteristics of such a code have the essential property that any subset of 2e of them are linearly independent. An upper bound on r for fixed n and e is obtained by consideration of a systematic procedure for finding the characteristics; this upper bound is always less than, or equal to, twice the lower bound of Hamming.1"
"This paper demonstrates the applicability of the functional equations of dynamic programming to information theory problems. Yielding the same results as those obtainable by Shannon's equations, the functional equations can be modified also to consider the many restrictions enforced upon information systems by the real world. A result of the application of functional equations to systems operating under suboptimum conditions is that the information rate of a system is dependent upon the manner in which the information is used. The Kelly concept-the gain of a gambler who wagers his capital on the outcome of a communication channel — is used to determine the information rate of the channel. The mathematical analysis follows the stochastic multistage decision process technique of Bellman and Kalaba. Together with some extensions by the author, the Kelly-Bellman-Kalaba model of communication is repeated. The models are analyzed for the optimum case and examined for various suboptimum conditions. The gambler's betting policy is analogous to information usage; restrictions upon this policy affect the information rate of the system. They can require that the policy which is best under optimum conditions be replaced by other policies which, although inferior in the ideal case, are better able to compensate for the restrictions. A null zone reception system first analyzed by Bloom and others is reanalyzed to provide a concrete example of the latitude of operation allowed by the functional equation approach. Bloom's analysis assumed that the system operates under optimum conditions. His results are duplicated, and their expression indicates their alteration by suboptimum conditions. An appendix expresses the results of this paper in the form used by Bloom."
"The capacity of a certain asymmetrical binary channel is studied under the following conditions. 1) Blocks of equal numbers of binary digits are used as the transmitting symbols. 2) The channel resumes its quiescent state at the beginning of each block. 3) The memory of the channel is characterized by the dependence of the noise probabilities for each digit upon the preceding digit or digits in the same block. It is shown that, by means of simple rules and with the aid of a single set of curves or a table, the calculation of the capacity can be reduced to a routine process."
"This paper considers the fourth product moment, w(τ1, τ2, τ3) = E[x(t)x(t + τ1)x(t + τ2)x(t + τ3)], when x(t) is infinitely clipped noise with a mean value of zero. If the noise is Gaussian before clipping, the moment w is not obtainable in closed form. For this reason, the Gaussian assumption is withdrawn and other assumptions are employed. If the zeros of x(t) obey the Poisson distribution, a particularly simple result follows for w and for all higher moments. An alternative assumption is the following. Let unspecified events occur at times τ0, τ1, τ2, … according to the Poisson distribution. If alternate events, i.e., those at τ1, τ3, τ5, …, are designated as the zeros of x(t), both the autocorrelation function and w(τ1, τ2, τ3) can be derived. The results are in terms of elementary functions. A comparison is made between these models and clipped Gaussian processes."
"It is shown that the envelope of a narrow-band Gaussian noise constitutes a first-order Markoff process if the power spectrum of the noise is the same as would be obtained from a singly tuned RLC filter with white noise at the input."
"This work generalizes the Wiener-Kolmogorov theory of optimum linear filtering and prediction of stationary random inputs. It is assumed here that signal and noise have passed through a random device before being available for filtering and prediction. A random device is a unit whose behavior depends on an unknown parameter for which an a priori probability distribution is given. A number of engineering applications are cited. Two of these are worked out in some detail to illustrate the optimization procedure."
"In a recent paper,1 Barrett and Lampard introduced an expansion for second-order probability distributions which expresses such a distribution as a double series involving orthogonal polynomials associated with the corresponding first-order probability distributions. Several interesting consequences were derived for the class, A, consisting of all second-order distributions having a diagonal expansion of the form"
"The purpose of this note is to point out a simple but interesting result which is obtained when the ideas of Statistical Decision Theory1 are applied to estimate the parameters of signals represented by a linear expansion of orthogonal functions.2"
"Manasse, Price, and Lerner have recently demonstrated1 the remarkable fact that it is possible to reduce the signal-detectability degradation factor of a band-pass limiter to unity by adding strong noise of low spectral intensity and sufficient bandwidth to its input. The purpose of this letter is to elucidate the phenomenon."
"This paper discusses the importance, from the viewpoint of judging quality, of: the end to be served by a standard of quality; the nature of the accepted binding force of the standard upon the acts of those interested in the standard; and the role of the judge of quality in shaping the standard in terms of natural law, authority, specification, custom, and precedent."
"Statistical methods played a significant part in the development program of the L3 system. Experiments were designed to assist in improving the manufacture of the input and output transformers of the amplifiers. Detailed analysis of a few of these experiments is presented."
"This paper, after making a critical review of the literature pertaining to runs above and below in a fixed sample, provides the following extensions: 1. Sample arrangement distributions for runs of length at least s on one, each, and either side of any selected cut for samples of 10 and 20, 2. Sample arrangement distributions for runs of length at least s on one, each, and either side of the median for samples of 10, 20, 40, 60, 100, and 200, 3. Sample arrangement distributions for runs of length at least s on each side of all possible cuts for samples of 10, 20, 40, and 100, 4. Asymptotic values of the probabilities of such arrangements when the sample size and length of run are large, 5. Convenient charts and tables for probabilities of 0.01, 0.10, 0.50, 0.90, and 0.99 to facilitate use by engineers and scientists, and 6. Discussion of a simple application. The inclusion of the case for runs of length at least s on each side of all possible cuts should prove very useful because it provides a quantitative measure for a common operational procedure for which the exact probabilities were heretofore unknown."
"This paper is concerned with the statistical properties of tests composed of the standard control chart test supplemented by one or more tests for runs of points in various zones into which the control chart is partitioned. The basic properties of the resultant tests, called zone tests, are illustrated graphically. A procedure for determining the properties of many zone tests of practical interest is described."
"In continuous sampling plans of the type known as CSP-1, the amount of screening has an important bearing on the total inspection effort. To limit this effort an inspector may be required to lake special action if the number of inspected units in one screening sequence exceeds some specified value or “critical length”. The aim of the special action is to bring about improvement in the production process. This effect is possible also when the producing shop is required to do any screening called for by the inspection plan. A procedure for calculating critical lengths may be based on simple approximations derived from the theory of runs."
"The problem is to determine how large a random sample is needed in order to attain a preassigned probability P*(1/2 ≦ P* < 1) that the sample mill possess a certain amount (or degree) of representativeness of the true unknown (cumulative) distribution F under study. The definition of representativeness involves two preassigned constants k and β*(k ≧ 2 is an integer). For example, for k = 2 and any β*(0 < β* ≦ 1/2) the sample is defined to be representative if the proportion of the total sample size falling on each side of the population median differs from 1/2 by at most β*. In this case the degree of representativeness is defined as dg* = 1–2β*."
"The probability distribution of the power, y, of a sample of Gaussian noise of time duration T is considered. Some general theory is presented along with curves for the cumulative distribution and probability density of y for several different power spectra and values of T."
"The measurement of power spectra is a problem of steadily increasing importance which appears to some to be primarily a problem in statistical estimation. Others may see it as a problem of instrumentation, recording and analysis which vitally involves the ideas of transmission theory. Actually, ideas and techniques from both fields are needed. When they are combined, they provide a basis for developing the insight necessary (i) to plan both the acquisition of adequate data and sound procedures for its reduction to meaningful estimates and (ii) to interpret these estimates correctly and usefully. This account attempts to provide and relate the necessary ideas and techniques in reasonable detail. Part II of this article wilt appear in the March issue of THE JOURNAL."
"This is the first of a series of articles describing an experimental electronic telephone switching system employing a number of new techniques. These include use of a stored program, a network employing gas tube cross-points, time-division common control and large-capacity barrier grid tube and photographic storage systems."
"The advent of electronic switching has necessitated a considerable number of changes in the circuit design philosophy employed in the electromechanical switching art. The invention of the transistor and the refinement of other semiconductor devices have made possible new techniques. This paper discusses the philosophy of circuit design for the central control of an electronic switching system. Primary emphasis in the designs has been low cost consistent with good margins, reliability and the meeting of systems requirements."
"The flying spot store is a semipermanent information storage system developed for use in an electronic switching system which utilizes cathode ray tube access to information stored on photographic emulsion. Parallel optical channels are used to provide high capacity and parallel readout. A feedback system provides rapid and precise beam positioning for writing and readout. This paper describes the fundamental design considerations for memory systems of this type, stressing physical realizability, speed, capacity and other system features. The characteristics of a laboratory model are presented."
"This paper describes a high-speed random access memory developed to serve an experimental electronic telephone switching system. The memory uses a barrier grid type electrostatic storage tube which is incorporated in a complete general-purpose store with a capacity of 16,384 bits. Random access to any bit together with a full storage cycle of reading and writing is complete in 2.5 microseconds, permitting a 400-kc repetition rate. Experience with this store indicates that barrier grid storage can provide stable, compact, economical memory for data handling systems."
"This paper describes the calculation of smoothing and prediction operators of the linear least-squares sort using techniques derived from a circuit theory point of view. The techniques are developed explicitly for time series which are continuous and statistically stationary. Other situations are explored more briefly, however, in which the time series are either discrete or statistically nonstationary. For the most part, functions of time are replaced by functions of frequency, representing their transforms. Mathematical complications are avoided by restricting statistical ensembles to those which have rational power spectra. In practice, actual spectra can be approximated sufficiently well by rational spectra, and the simplified methods are sufficiently general for engineering applications of many different sorts. Both finite and semi-infinite smoothing intervals are permitted, with or without constraints of various sorts. The assumption of rational spectra does not apply directly to nonstationary time series, but it may be replaced by a closely analogous restriction which does apply. Then there are nonstationary operations which are closely analogous to the stationary operations, developed for stationary systems. A brief examination of these analogies is of interest, even though the nonstationary operations are usually too complicated for engineering purposes. The general techniques are developed in terms of specific problems, chosen for purposes of exposition and because of their engineering interest."
"Automatic number identification provides facilities for automatically obtaining calling customers' directory numbers in No. 1 crossbar, panel and step-by-step central offices and transmitting these numbers to a tandem or toll office for recording on centralised automatic message accounting equipment for billing purposes. Present centralized automatic message accounting systems require operators to request the calling customers' numbers and to key these numbers into recording equipment. The new facilities feature a simplified procedure for customers, improvement in speed of service and greater accuracy of billing records. Offices with local automatic message accounting facilities already have these features and are not candidates for automatic number identification."
"The technology in which it was to be used was already about 85 years old when Bardeen, Brattain and Shockley discovered the transistor ten years ago, This circumstance has led to an unusual course of development and application, The transistor has affected the technical and commercial growth of electronics and communications more quickly than might have been expected from the somewhat offhand newspaper comments of July 1, 1948. (The news story about the transistor was carried on page 46 in one famous case)."
"This paper describes in detail the manufacture of, measurements on, and computations about a three-conductor coaxial cable with transpositions. By reducing skin-effect losses in the central conductor, this three-conductor line achieves 17 per cent lower attenuation at a particular frequency than does a two-conductor line of the same outer diameter. The matrix method used for analysis can easily be extended to n-conductor lines. Suggestions for making improved three-conductor coaxial lines are made."
"From the switching Junctions of n variables, those which correspond to networks are abstracted and called network functions. Properties of those network functions corresponding to series-parallel networks are studied and a method for synthesis is developed."
"Transitions between round waveguides of different sizes fur TE01 transmission are required to be free of mode conversion. Conical tapers with a gradual change of cone angle transform cylindrical waves in the round waveguide into spherical waves in the transition region. They thus cause very little power conversion to spurious modes. Optimal tapers and almost optimal tapers are found. An improved taper connecting 7/8 in. to 2 in. i.d. waveguide must be 3 ft long to keep the spurious mode level below — 50 db for frequencies up to 75 kmc. A taper of constant cone angle would have to be 58 ft long to obtain the same spurious mode level."
"The problem of obtaining a broadband microwave termination is considered from the point of view of nonuniform transmission line theory. Attention is restricted to lines in which only the distributed shunt admittance may be varied. An optimization argument is presented which leads to the consideration of a line in which the fractional increase in admittance per wavelength in the line is constant. The nonuniform transmission line equations are solved exactly for this case, and the results are expressed in terms of readily interpretable elementary functions. It is shown that a fixed geometrical length of line can lead to an arbitrarily large effective length without destroying the match at the input. The introduction of a small loss term makes the line almost totally absorbing regardless of its termination. The line has a long-wavelength cutoff given by 4Π times the actual length of the line. If the line is short-circuited at its far end, a return loss of greater than 11.4 db is obtained at all frequencies above twice the cutoff frequency. The effect of certain practical limitations on the performance of this line is also discussed."
"The contact resistance between electrodes of molybdenum and tungsten is used to investigate the adsorption of nitrogen and oxygen. It is found that, on clean metals, the initial period of fast adsorption gives rise to a surface resistivity of about 4 × 10−10 ohm-cm2, corresponding to a layer of the order of 1.6 Angstroms thick on each surface. To remove, within a minute or so, the layers resulting from adsorption beyond this initial period, temperatures near 1700°K are required for all four metal-gas combinations. Some of the oxygen adsorbed at a pressure of a few torr* at room temperature can be removed by lowering the pressure, but such an effect was not observed for nitrogen. Nitrogen or oxygen adsorbed during the initial period of fast adsorption on clean molybdenum or tungsten at a temperature of 100°K is not removed in times of the order of one hour by lowering the pressure, in disagreement with some results in the literature. The rate of migration of adsorbed oxygen into and out of the region between closed contacts is found to be much lower than that reported in an earlier experiment of the same type."
"General equations are derived for the noise figure of a frequency converter using a p-n junction diode with arbitrary minority-carrier storage. A p-n junction with a purely capacitive nonlinear admittance permits, theoretically, noiseless amplification. Structures are suggested for approximating this ideal. A diffused silicon junction diode gave 9 db of gain with a 2-db noise figure in converting 460 to 9375 mc and gave a 3-db noise figure as a 6000-mc negative-resistance amplifier. Nonlinear-resistance diodes cannot amplify but can give low-noise frequency conversion if the local-oscillator drive produces a sharply pulsed current waveform in the diode."
"The performance of a p-n junction nonlinear-capacitance diode as a low-noise, amplifying frequency converter is analyzed for the case in which the output signal frequency is many limes greater than the input signal frequency. The diode is represented by an equivalent circuit consisting of a time varying capacitance and a constant series resistance. Formulae for the maximum available gain and the noise figure of the circuit are obtained, and representative numerical values are given for the noise figures of systems incorporating such diodes as preamplifiers."
"A nonstationary noise may frequently be approximated by the product of a stationary noise and a deterministic function of time. From observations of the sum of such a nonstationary noise and a linear signal, an estimate of the rate of change of the signal is found. More exactly, a random function, x(t), is assumed to be one of the following:"
"Inadequacies of some limiter concepts are discussed and a limiter analysis in terms of low-index modulation theory is presented. The analysis of a particular circuit proves the possibility of perfect amplitude modulation suppression with small loss to the frequency modulated signal. Experimental data are presented which verify the theory and demonstrate the practicability of the device analyzed."
"The magnetic, electrical and optical properties of the 3d metal oxides are examined for clues to the energy band structure. A tentative energy band scheme is proposed for the oxides of scandium, titanium and vanadium which suggests that the nonbonding 3d orbitals of neighboring cations overlap sufficiently to form a 3d conduction band. The 3d orbitals do not overlap in the oxides of the remaining 3d metals, with the consequence that the 3d electrons are in isolated energy states and electron transport occurs by electron exchange between cation neighbors and involves an activation energy. An energy level scheme for these latter oxides is calculated from simple electrostatics, and it is shown to agree with the observed electrical properties. Conduction in these oxides includes transport of high-mobility holes in the 2p band of the oxygen lattice and of low-mobility holes and electrons in the 3d levels of the cation lattice."
"The design of an experimental electronic switching system presented many new problems in specifying the functions to be performed and in developing the means to carry them out. This resulted in the use of a number of techniques new to the telephone switching field. This paper, divided into two parts, describes some of these. Part One deals with a specification of what the system must do and with its general mode of operation; Part Two describes a control philosophy employing a stored program."
"A high-speed multiposition electronic switch has been developed to act as a time-division information-gathering device for the experimental electronic switching system. This switch, called the scanner, provides central control with random access to all lines and trunks terminating in the central office and permits sampling their stales for the reception of supervisory and dial pulse signals."
"The purpose, design and operation of the signal distributor are described in this paper. The signal distributor is the unit in the experimental electronic switching system which is used to distribute action signals. A semiconductor gate selector, driving a large group of memory flip-flops is used to generate the necessary action signals from a high-speed binary address. Factors governing the design are outlined and some alternate solutions compared."
"Electronic switches have been applied in designs for multistage space-divided electronic switching networks. The electrical characteristics of the gas diode switch are discussed from the viewpoint of its utilization in switching networks, with emphasis upon the circuits employed in an experimental electronic switching system. A general method of calculating voltage margins for the reliable operation of multistage switching networks is illustrated by the description of two techniques for establishing a switching path, the end-marking and internal-marking methods. In conjunction with these operational methods, the uses of network controls and auxiliary network cricuits, such as mark propagator and junctor circuits, are described. The transmission aspects of the electronic switching network determine to a large degree the circuit requirements and compromises. This is in contrast with the situation in electromechanical switching, where switching and transmission characteristics are largely independent."
"A simplified method for determining the behavior of the timing portion of a chain of regenerative repeaters is presented. The method applies to self-timed as well as separately timed systems. The effect of random noise, as modified by the timing circuit bandwidth, is calculated. Defects other than noise are discussed. System requirements for the satisfactory transmission of a number of types of signals are determined."
"This paper describes a number of experiments performed with self-timed binary regenerative repeaters to determine the behavior of the timing portion of a chain of such repeaters."
"Statistics of a synchronous binary message pulse train applied to a regenerative repeater are related to those of the original binary message, which is assumed ergodic. It is shown that the ensemble of possible message pulse trains is a nonstationary random process having a periodically varying mean and autocovariance. A spectral density is calculated which shows line-spectral components at harmonics of the pulse rate and a continuous density function, both with intensity proportional to the square of the absolute value of the Fourier transform of the standard pulse at the frequency considered. The continuous component has many properties similar to thermal noise but differs in that, under certain conditions described, it can exhibit regularly spaced axis crossings, can be exactly predicted over finite intervals and is capable of producing discrete components when nonlinear operations are performed on it, even though no line spectral terms are originally present. The analytical results are applied to the problem of deriving a timing wave from the message pulse train by shock-exciting a tuned circuit with impulses occurring at the axis crossings."
"The present paper studies same of the statistical properties of the random-timing deviations, or position modulation of the signal pulses, in a long chain of regenerative binary repeaters. Random timing deviations of the output signal pulses result from input noise, tuning error, random timing deviations of the input signal pulses (introduced by preceding repeaters) and other sources at each repealer. The power spectra and the total powers (mean square values) of the timing noise, spacing noise (random deviations in spacing of two consecutive pulses from an integral number of pulse periods) and alignment noise (random deviations in alignment between an input signal pulse and its corresponding liming pulse) caused by the input noise at each repeater are determined for a long chain of regenerative repeaters using either tuned circuit or locked oscillator timing filters. The effects of tuning error arc studied for a chain of repeaters employing locked oscillator timing circuits; however, the present analysis does not treat the effects of tuning error in a chain of repeaters using tuned-circuit timing filters."
"Generalized telegraphist's equations have been derived for curved helix waveguide and coefficients obtained for conversion from normal modes of the helix waveguide to normal modes of the metallic waveguide. A radial wave impedance at the helix interface is used to calculate the effect of composite jacket structures. Three different applications of the helix waveguide for circular electric wave transmission are discussed: As a mode filter, the helix waveguide should have a lossy jacket which causes a high transmission loss for all unwanted modes. For sharp intentional bends with tapered curvature, the helix waveguide should have a jacket of low-loss dielectric material surrounded by a highly conducting coaxial shield. For an all-helix waveguide, in order to reduce both mode conversion-reconversion effects at imperfections and loss in curvature the jacket should be medium lossy and also surrounded by a metallic shield. The distance between helix ami shield should in all applications be about a quarter of the radial wavelength in the material. Measurements on unwanted mode transmission and TE01 curvature loss confirm the analysis."
"The change in the field pattern of the TE01 mode in the helix waveguide with constant curvature is calculated by means of a perturbation method. The helix waveguide has a coating of a lossy dielectric and is shielded by a metallic pipe. By bending this waveguide, the original field pattern of the TE01 wave is slightly perturbed. The perturbation produces additional field components which give rise to an electromagnetic field in the lossy dielectric. This field causes energy dissipation and gives rise to an additional attenuation. In this paper formulae for the curvature attenuation caused by the dielectric losses are given. It is shown that the attenuation due to curvature can be remarkably reduced by proper choice of the thickness of the dielectric layer between helix and metallic shield."
"The fluctuations of a received radio signal due to fading are assumed to behave like the envelope of narrow-band Gaussian noise. Estimates of the distribution of the fade lengths for various depths of fades are given, and relations which may be useful in analyzing fading data are derived. A similar problem involving the separation of the intercepts of the noise current itself, instead of its envelope, is also discussed."
"Values of the tensor permeability components of a magnetized ferrite at microwave frequencies may be determined from the frequency shift that a sample produces in a resonant cavity. In this paper mathematical expressions are obtained relating this frequency shift to the diagonal and off-diagonal permeability tensor values and to the cavity geometry and ferrite geometry for any TE, TM or TEM mode natural to the empty cavity. The cavities considered are axial and have generalized cross section. The expressions are valid for ferrite discs whose volume is small compared with the cavity volume; it is assumed that the ferrite sample does not perturb the fields outside the ferrite from their empty cavity values. The cross section of the ferrite disc is arbitrary in shape and is perpendicular to the axis of the cavity. Examples are given in which the frequency shifts in a circular coaxial cavity, circular cylindrical cavity and rectangular cavity containing thin ferrite discs are derived for general TE and TM modes. The TEM-type cavity is also considered."
"Departures from perfect geometry in a multi-mode circular waveguide used for circular electric ware transmission will cause coupling between the TE01 signal mode and the other propagating modes. Such coupling causes serious degradation of signal fidelity after long travel distances. These effects have been studied in a long 5-inch-diameter guide in the 9000-mc band, for effective pulse travel distances up to 12 miles. Mode filters have been developed which suppress all spuriously generated modes in this guide. It is found that the insertion of these mode filters at reasonable intervals along the waveguide reduces pulse distortion to a negligible level and smooths the variations in the loss versus frequency characteristic."
"A satisfactory technique of constructing research models of helix waveguides has been evolved. A helix of insulated copper win is wound on a mandrel and surrounded by a sheath of lossy material which, in turn, is covered by an outer plastic jacket reinforced with fiberglass. Units with 2-inch inside diameters hare been made in lengths of 18 ami 112 inches with observed circular-electric-wave losses 90 per cent above theory for an ideal copper tube at 55,000 mc. In short lengths, the. helix waveguide provides a useful component known as a mode filter which may be inserted at intervals in a solid-wall waveguide transmission line. The long lengths are of interest in producing an all-helix waveguide, which is expected to have superior transmission properties."
"The zeros of the Bessel functions and Bessel function deriviatives are identified by standard waveguide notation which also serves as a code for more general mathematical applications."
"A method for determining the surface concentration of diffused impurity layers in semiconductors is described. It is shown that the surface concentration may be evaluated if the sheet resistivity of the layer, junction depth, impurity distribution across the layer, background resistivity and the majority carrier mobility are known. The calculations have been made for several typical impurity distributions in silicon."
"Correction factors are evaluated for the measurement of sheet resistirities on two-dimensional rectangular and circular samples with the four-point probe. Diffused surface layers can be treated as two-dimensional structures, but the factors are also useful in obtaining body resistivities on thin samples."
"The dielectric constant of c-domain barium titanate single-crystal plates has been measured as a function of their average polarization, using ac voltages much smaller than the coercive voltage. As has been found previously, the dielectric constant at frequencies below thickness fundamental resonance has a minimum at zero average polarization. However, at frequencies well above thickness resonance the dielectric constant has a maximum at zero polarization. The variation is about 25 per cent from minimum to maximum in both frequency ranges. In both frequency ranges the conductance is highest at zero polarization. The piezoelectric output voltage of a BaTiO3 single crystal subjected to a recurrent strain pulse of constant amplitude has been found to be approximately, but not exactly, proportional to its average polarization. There appears, in fact, to be a distinct hysteresis in the dependence."
"An amorphous brownish organic deposit has been found on non-arcing palladium contacts. It is shown that this material is produced when a number of metals, notably those of the palladium and platinum groups, are rubbed together in the presence of low concentrations of organic rapors. The deposit is given by a very wide variety of organic materials, and is thought first to involve chemisorption of the vapor on the metal, followed by frictional activation and polymerization of the chemisorbed layers to form the visible accumulation. The use of a gold alloy overlay on the palladium to minimize the troublesome effects of the polymer on contact performance is discussed."
"When palladium or platinum-family metal contacts are operated in an environment which includes organic vapors, the performance of the contacts may be seriously degraded. If the contacts open and close currents, the contact erosion may be increased enormously. On the other hand, if the contacts merely prepare the circuit and do not directly open or close the current flow, no erosion will take place. The contacts may then fail to conduct the circuit current satisfactorily, because of the formation of an insulating polymer-like film. This latter type of failure has been the subject of extensive studies at Bell Telephone Laboratories for the past several years and is the subject of this article. These studies have yielded a new understanding of the contact problem and resulted in certain changes in relay contacts to improve their performance under service conditions."
"Certain problems in coding and in switching theory require a list of distinct binary n-tuples such that each differs from the one preceding it in just one coordinate. Geometrically, such a list corresponds to a path which follows edges of an n-dimensional cube. This paper finds all types of closed paths on cubes with n ≦ 4. For larger n, a process given here will produce large numbers of paths."
"This article, which appeared in the 1957 printing of the Encyclopedia Britannica,* has been reprinted by special permission for readers of the Bell System Technical Journal. All statistics have been corrected to the latest available figures. An objective account of the invention of the telephone itself is given, and the subsequent development and growth of telephony are described. A statistical summary is presented of the intensity of development in different parts of the world. This is followed by a comprehensive review of technical developments, including progress in station instrumentalities, and transmission and switching principles and methods. The article concludes with a prediction of trends to be anticipated in telephony as a result of recent technical advances."
"Forward-looking work on the telephone set has yielded attractive new solutions for the problem of signaling between the customer station and the central. office. This work takes advantage of new electronic devices such as the silicon junction diode, the transistor and the ferrite coil. Two exploratory developments are described: a “tone ringer” and a “pushbutton caller,” both of which employ signals within the telephone speech band. Although usable separately, as justified by economic and other considerations in particular telephone systems, the developments have been conceived primarily as an integrated and moderately long range attack on the signaling problem, with special regard for the field of electronic switching."
"The formula for the attenuation of a coaxial line loaded continuously with magnetic materials involces, after a change of variables, only three parameters, even when the effect of dielectric losses is included. If the dimensions of the line have their optimum values, the, attenuation is a function of only two parameters. The relation is exhibited both graphically and analytically, in forms which can be applied to practical problems. A simple numerical example is given to illustrate the use of the formula."
"Plans for a new communication network for a military theater of operation were recently formulated. These plans include not only a number of presently available new facilities suck as carrier and radio systems, but also a general switching plan together with means for its implementation. It is with these switching arrangements that this article is concerned. A manual switchboard of advanced design is described in which many formerly manual procedures are mechanized. An orderly arrangement of switching centers and trunk groups provides for efficient usage of trunk facilities with alternate routes engineered as needed to minimize call delays. The equipment design features considerable flexibility so that rearrangements to decrease or increase the size of a switching center may be accomplished with a minimum of effort. Rapid installation or dismantling is facilitated by limiting individual equipment packages to 250 pounds and by the use of patch cables which eliminate the need for soldering when an office is installed."
"This paper describes and analyzes a proposed semiconductor diode designed to operate as an oscillator when mounted in a suitable microwave cavity. The frequency would be in the range extending from 1 to 50 kmc. The negative Q may be as low as 10 and the efficiency as high as 30 per cent. The diode is biased in reverse so as to establish a depletion, or space-charge, layer of fixed width in a relatively high resistance region, bounded by very low resistance end regions. The electric field has a maximum at one edge of the space-charge region, where hole-electron pairs are generated by internal secondary emission, or avalanche. The holes (or electrons) travel across the space-charge layer with constant velocity, thus producing a current through the diode. Because of the build-up time of the avalanche, and the transit time of the holes across the depletion layer, the alternating current is delayed by approximately one-half cycle relative to the ac voltage. Thus, power is delivered to the ac signal. When the diode is mounted in an inductive microwave cavity tuned to the capacity of the diode, an oscillation will build up. It appears possible to obtain over 20 watts of ac power in continuous operation at 5 kmc."
"By applying traveling wave tube principles to the design of a helix type vertical deflection system it has become possible to build an oscilloscope tube whose bandwidth characteristic is flat over 600 megacycles. The trace on the fluorescent screen is readable without other optical means. The tube construction is similar to commercial cathode ray tubes, the only exception being that the alignment of the various tube elements has a closer tolerance. In actual use this tube allows one to view directly repetitive pulses a few millimicroseconds in width."
"The problem considered is that of choosing approximate component tolerances in order to minimize mass production costs. The basic item considered is a unit with a single nominal design response. This unit has several components with given nominal design values such that the unit nominal response is as required. We assume that the components are in statistical control and that we can compute the statistical behavior of the response as a function of the assignment of component tolerances. Further, we assume that the cost and salvage value of a unit are known as a function of the assignment of component tolerances. We impose the restriction that the sum of the responses of n identical units in combination must be within a prescribed tolerance with probability 1 − ɛ. We can then find a relation involving the tolerance limits on the sum of the responses, the rejection limits on the. response of a single unit, the variance of the response of a single unit, and the probability ɛ. Using this relation, which effectively introduces the rejection rate as an additional variable, we then show how to assign component tolerances to minimize production costs. As an illustrative example we consider the design for production of an idealized lumped-constant delay line."
"The measurement of power spectra is a problem of steadily increasing importance which appears to some to be primarily a problem in statistical estimation. Others may see it as a problem of instrumentation, recording and analysis which vitally involves the ideas of transmission theory. Actually, ideas and techniques from both fields are needed. When they are combined, they provide a basis for developing the insight necessary (i) to plan both the acquisition of adequate data and sound procedures for its reduction to meaningful estimates and (ii) to interpret these estimates correctly and usefully. This account attempts to provide and relate the necessary ideas and techniques in reasonable detail — Part I of this article appeared in the January, 1958 issue of THE BELL SYSTEM TECHNICAL JOURNAL."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Harry davis (A'44-SM'49-F'55) was born in New York, N. Y., on December 2, 1909. He received the Bachelor of Science degree in physics in 1931 and the electrical engineering degree in 1933 from the College of the City of New York. In 1948 he received the Master's degree in electrical engineering from the Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn where he has done further graduate work leading to the Doctorate degree, in conjunction with courses taken at Syracuse University."
"AFTER publication of two excellent issues of the PGMIL Transactions, the editors decided to prepare an edition which would stress Space Technology, covering those aspects which might be of general interest to all members of the IRE and, more specifically, to those who because of their interest in Military Electronics joined the PGMIL."
"The urge to learn more about the space surrounding the earth has been strong throughout mankind's recorded history, the incentive coming sometimes from primitive religion, sometimes from scientific curiosity, and ofttimes from a love of natural beauty. Today we can add to these the incentive of our newly acquired capability of penetrating into this space with instrumented and manned vehicles. We already know much about the solar system and a little about the universe beyond. We have some knowledge of the physical existence and the motion of the planets and their satellites, the asteroids, the comets and the meteors; the composition of these bodies is also somewhat known. The nature of the electromagnetic and particle radiations from the sun and extra solar system sources are less completely known and will be the continuing objective of some of our early scientific explorations of solar space."
"This paper is mainly concerned with four general topics of importance in astronautics: 1) Basic laws of celestial mechanics. The subjects covered are: Kepler's laws and their Newtonian redevelopment, the orbital elements, and perturbations. 2) Lunar and interplanetary flights. A typical earth-moon transit trajectory, computed by automatic machine, is discussed. Guidance accuracies required for lunar impact are illustrated. Circumlunar flights, lunar satellites, and interplanetary flights are also briefly discussed. 3) The space environment. Among the subjects covered are: the distribution and characteristics of dust and meteoric material in the solar system; asteroids; comets; molecular, atomic, and subatomic particles in space; the possible lunar atmosphere and ionosphere; extraterrestrial radio noise; and the magnetic fields of the earth and sun. 4) Scientific experimentation in space. Useful subjects for experimentation are: refinement of our knowledge of basic constants such as the value of the astronomical unit; observation of the atmospheric and surface conditions of the moon and of our neighbor planets; increased observation of matter and radiation in space."
"Preliminary design parameters for space communications can be estimated by standard application of the radiation range equation and of communication-theoretic equations relating channel capacity to bandwidth and signal-to-noise ratio. An example is given for a hypothetical situation involving communication between a space vehicle and a receiver located on the earth's surface, for various communication ranges. Preliminary estimates of this type also serve to indicate areas of research and development which will be of importance in space communications. Some of the areas briefly mentioned are: components (vehicle and surface antennas, sensitive receivers, highly reliable circuit components, and electrical power sources); signal storage, encoding, and processing techniques; tracking and acquisition techniques; and studies of the physical environment (extraterrestrial noise, component environment, and electromagnetic propagation environment in space)."
"Inertial guidance is based on the use of reference coordinates established by applications of Newton's Laws of Motion to self-contained systems. Gyro units carried by servo-powered gimbals give accurate information on preset angular positions that may be used to supply the function of the celestial sphere in conventional navigation. Changes in position are indicated by integration of acceleration components along axes fixed to the gyro-stabilized member. When vehicles moving over or near the earth's surface are involved, the use of Schuler tuning to give vertical indications unaffected by linear acceleration makes accurate long-range inertial guidance possible. Because in all cases only the laws of gravity and classical mechanics are involved, inertial guidance systems are generally free from interference, short of actual physical damage. Systems based on gyro units and accelerometers are made possible only by modern developments in mechanical design, materials, electronics, and servomechanism techniques. Illustrative examples are given and discussed to bring out the nature of the problems involved. Beyond question, the future holds many applications of inertial principles to a wide range of guidance problems."
"This paper surveys the principles underlying the radio guidance and tracking of space vehicles. The various techniques which can be used for obtaining position and/or velocity information are described and their relative merits are assessed. The limitations imposed by tropospheric and ionospheric noise on radio systems are also discussed. Finally, two specific examples are worked out, illustrating the translation of radar guidance errors into flight uncertainties in the trajectories of ICBM's and satellites."
"Charles S. Draper (A'53-F'55) was born in Windsor, Mo., on October 2, 1901. He entered the University of Missouri in 1917, transferred to Stanford University in 1919, and received the B.A. degree in psychology in 1922. Later that year, he began his present association with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, from which he received three degrees: the B.S. in electrochemical engineering in 1926, the S.M. in 1928, and the Sc.D. in physics in 1938."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Although 1957 was not a year of large revolutionary technological developments, this Progress Report reflects substantial improvements and developments in many areas. Production and exhibition of wide-screen film have become generally standardized. The use of motion pictures and television in nontheatrical fields continued to increase. Theater feature film producers, whose engineering departments were once responsible for many developments, curtailed their engineering or research activities and some even abolished certain departments."
"Here are described the various operations performed on the video signal as it travels through the Ampex Videotape Recorder. Briefly outlined is the history of each problem and some of the reasons for the solution applied."
"Due to stringent requirements of network television, especially with regard to the shape and transient noise content of synchronizing pulses, a special “processing amplifier” has been developed to insure acceptable video waveform at the output of the Videotape Recorder. Similar in concept to a stabilizing amplifier, the new device represents a logical extension of stabilizing techniques. In addition to the usual stabilizing amplifier functions, the processing amplifier provides for complete reblanking of the video waveform and precise gating of the sync pulses, insuring that noise transients in the black direction will not project beyond reference black level during the active portion of the horizontal cycle. These operations are controlled solely by timing information in the incoming sync pulses."
"Video tape can be spliced, but techniques applicable to photographic film or recorded audio tape are not suitable for video tape. Splicing and editing of video tape are possible and practical but are a special process quite unlike the splicing of photographic film or audio tape."
"A relatively simple and inexpensive method for splicing video tape has been developed. Three problems were investigated: (1) visual “development” of the video track; (2) accurate positioning of the splice; (3) joining tapes to achieve maximum mechanical strength. Electronics have been included in production machines to provide accurately spaced “edit” pulses to position the splice. Simplified tray spray “development” methods have been attained."
"The new video-tape recording systems now in commercial and experimental use require special magnetic tapes differing in design from standard types, and manufactured to a standard of perfection which a short time ago it was believed impossible to achieve. This paper discusses some of the unique features of video-recording tapes and the problems encountered in their development."
"New requirements are placed on video-tape recorders when tapes are to be recorded on one machine and reproduced on another. The nature and extent of these requirements are discussed for both monochrome and color."
"A low-cost TV viewfinder using a 1-in. vidicon with 600-line resolution is described. An earlier version of this viewfinder which used a 1/2-in. vidicon with 300-line resolution was presented at the Society's 80th Convention in Los Angeles. The new viewfinder is expected to cut costs of motion-picture production by enabling the director to view a picture on a TV monitor as it is being filmed, thus aiding him in making decisions concerning re-takes."
"An additive color system has been designed for use in motion-picture production. The system is also applicable to color TV and Armed Forces instrumentation photography. The problems of an operational additive color system are outlined and the solution to these problems is related to the Colorvision camera, printing and projection equipment. The technique of making subtractive prints from an additive negative is described."
"The electrostatic uniangular microphone consists of an electrostatic transducer combined with an acoustical network to provide a uniform response with respect to frequency and a uniangular directivity pattern. The microphone exhibits a high order of directivity. The polar directional pattern is independent of the frequency."
"Three professional magnetic recording systems have been designed, employing sprocket-hole 1/4-in. tape or 16mm or 17 1/2mm films, to meet the operating and quality requirements of the motion-picture industry. One of two small carrying cases contains a two-position mixer, including preamplifiers, recording amplifier and the 115-v a-c system power supply. The recorder includes a bias oscillator and monitor amplifier, both transistorized. The recorder operates synchronously from an a-c line or from power derived from the camera motor."
"A combination 16/35mm, black-and-white and color processing machine has been constructed at Moody Institute of Science. Unconventional features include individual torque motor drive on each shaft, the lack of full-shaft elevators, novel recirculation and constant-tension systems, automatic pile-up and break controls and the use of plastic materials throughout."
"A machine calculator based on the Wheatstone bridge principle is described. This machine will present information for additive or subtractive printing directly from the input data, which may be negative densities of a gray card in the scene or integrated full-frame negative densities. The input or output data appear simultaneously on the machine, thereby reducing the possibility of error. The timing error is ±0.03 log E for the first print relative to the standard print for the system in use."
"The use of a subtractive color printer in a commercial laboratory is desirable, chiefly because of economic considerations, provided high standards of reliability are maintained. A scene-change system is described which uses a Geneva movement to turn a sprocket which then moves a color filter matte. The action transports the matte smoothly and reliably."
"In compiling this bibliography, two types of material were considered: (1) items describing early equipment, or contributions of an individual to the early development of motion pictures; and (2) items describing new equipment, process or system for cinematography. The sources used include: American Cinematographer, British Kinematography, Image (published by the George Eastman House, Rochester, New York, since 1952), Journal of the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers, and the Monthly Abstract Bulletin (published by Kodak Research Laboratories). The list is not intended to cover the subject completely but is believed to include many of the major references."
"A theoretical and experimental study of the NTSC color system supported by color photographs shows that contrast range and color saturation obtained with commercial tricolor kinescopes provide a larger color space than provided by color motion pictures. In fine detail more than 60% of full color information is transmitted and reproduced by the NTSC system, because the bandwidth restrictions of the electrical color signals (I, Q) do not affect definition in the vertical dimension and have a smaller effect on the reproduction of horizontal color detail than indicated by earlier evaluations which disregarded the two-dimensional nature of the image. — The detail color reproduction appears adequate to the eye, because the color errors remaining are small although perceptible. This fact is significant because the spatial sine-wave response functions of the color discriminators of the visual system are found to be substantially independent of the color of light and similar to the spatial sine-wave luminance response function of the eye."
"The third meeting of ISO/TC 36, the committee responsible for development of international standards for motion pictures, was held in June 1958. Attention was given to problems arising from both television and theatrical usage. Areas of mutual understanding and agreement were enlarged. Improvement in the ease of international exchange of theater and television program material is the predictable result of this work."
"The history of international standardization of magnetic sound on film is traced as a typical ISO proceeding and to provide basic information for those who may be able to assist in this standard's further refinement."
"National and international standardization in the fields of interest of the SMPTE are the the Society's responsibility — by agreement with the ASA and other engineering societies. The SMPTE's engineering committees are charged with the technical evaluation and development of such standards; their activities during 1955–58 (the interval between meetings of the ISO) are reviewed in order to present a correlation between American and international standards and to provide a progress report on standardization in the SMPTE."
"In his speech of welcome, President Barton Kreuzer dramatically contrasted the state of the world and of the Society in October 1938, when the Society last convened in Detroit, with the present. He stressed the present importance of educational television and predicted future developments in space photography. He also noted that 20 years ago at the Detroit Convention, Herbert Kalmus, who this year was made an Honorary Member, was awarded the Progress Medal."
"This is an abridgment of the October 20 Get-Together Luncheon Address delivered by Mr. Mitchell, who is President of Encyclopaedia Britannica Films Inc. Mr. Mitchell's stirring speech, which culminated with the hope that there is “good news in damnation,” challenged the SMPTE to play a large part in the new era of education."
"First I want to express my deep appreciation to the Board of Governors, to the Honorary Membership Committee and to its Chairman, Dr. D. R. White, for having conferred upon me the grade of Honorary Member of the Society. I am greatly moved by this high honor."
"Streaks, blotches or other types of markings seen on processed film can often be traced to discharges of static electricity although the patterns produced are not always easily recognized as being due to this cause. Examples are shown of various types of markings which originate in different ways. Some suggested procedures for minimizing the occurrence of these markings are outlined."
"The factors influencing the sound-recording quality of prints made from duplicate negatives were investigated. Two photographic materials of different sensitometric characteristics were found to be suitable for use as master positives and duplicate negatives. No one set of density conditions on the duplicates produced optimal quality for all of the sound-recording characteristics simultaneously. It was found that a compromise resulting in near-optimal sound quality measured by each test can be made with some latitude in master positive-duplicate negative density."
"Professor Joseph T. Tykociner, now 90 years old, demonstrated his system of recording sound optically by means of a variable-density soundtrack in 1922. During that year he held one of the earliest public showings of talking motion pictures. His early background and later achievements are described."
"The performance to be expected from an image-dissection high-speed camera is discussed. It has been shown that these cameras sometimes appear to be about threefold faster than would have been simply predicted from the optics and mechanics of the system. A more detailed study of the system shows the apparent increase in time resolution to be real. Generalized equations for the time resolution of image-dissection cameras are presented and these equations are numerically solved for two important standards of performance. Using the known properties of the lenticular-plate cinemicrograph, its speed was evaluated at 100,000 frames/sec. It is also shown that this is based upon a quite conservative definition of framing rate."
"An earlier paper (March 1956 Journal) discussed the optical problems to be overcome in providing a standard of performance which is adequate for subsequent enlargement at a considerable scale on large viewing screens in the theater. Certain characteristics have hitherto limited the performance of conventional lenses. The application of new design techniques together with the use of new optical materials has led to the development of a new and complete range of camera lenses to suit modern requirements."
"The development of a special-type collector grid for use in high-wattage incandescent lamps used for motion-picture studio lighting is discussed. The collector grid is designed to maintain the beam lumen output of such lamps at a high level until filament failure occurs. Causes and effects of lamp blackening are explained."
"The interchange of television programmes among European countries is called Eurovision. It is not a network or planned operation under a single control, but is essentially the use of a number of independent services and networks on a cooperative basis. This paper describes certain problems encountered in this interchange, such as noncompatible line structure and frame rate, relay time coordination and language problems, and the means of solution."
"A proposed North Atlantic Relay Communication System (NARCOM) is discussed in detail. A plan for linking the United States and Canada to Great Britain and Europe, using this system, has been presented to the European Broadcasting Union."
"International TV broadcasting revolves around language translation. Methods of translating employed are dependent upon the degree of language conversion desired, subject to economic considerations. Methods described in this paper are: superimposed dialogue titles; off-screen narration; lip synchronization. The conversion of the dialogue is accomplished by the matching of the lip movements. This matching, or synchronization, begins with the foreign language writer, who is both translator and adaptor of the original dialogue. Basic speech sounds are the tools which make possible the flexibility of adaptation, which is limited by the number of syllables in a given phrase and the rhythm and emotional or dramatic delivery of that phrase."
"This paper discusses methods of operation and special problems of TV broadcasting to French- and English-speaking audiences in Canada."
"The world availability of magnetic sound equipped projectors in TV stations opens up new markets for internationally minded producers. The tools are presently available for producing bilingual films for this market. These tools and the preplanning necessary to make such films most effective are here presented."
"In obtaining the total output of a projector, or the total illumination which falls on a projection screen, it is customary to read the incident intensity at selected points in the illuminated area. These readings are then averaged by a suitable weighting formula to give the average over the face of the screen. This paper discusses some of the more commonly used formulas, considers their relative accuracy and the effects of various screen aspect ratios on the results obtained with them. It also analyzes various types of errors on the basis of an idealized distribution pattern which experience has shown checks closely with practical results."
"The uniformity of signal output from a vidicon is profoundly affected by the beam-landing characteristics that result when the tube is operated in present deflecting and focusing systems. Beam-landing errors change the applied voltage on the photoconductor as a function of the deflection angle and thus determine, to a great extent, the uniformity characteristics of the signal output of these tubes. A comparison of the signal-output characteristics of the various vidicon types is made and related to the specific types of applications in which each tube will find its best usage."
"An improved developmental 1-in. vidicon for use in live and film pickup is described. The design features of this tube result in a higher degree of uniformity of characteristics from tube to tube and, therefore, make it possible to obtain better register in color cameras. These features are a result of the development of an extremely uniform photoconductive surface and precision design. — Methods of compensation for beam-landing errors, which are responsible for most of the nonuniformities in signal output of vidicons, are explained. This paper describes a method of operation which, with proper circuit design, can be utilized to obtain the higher sensitivity required for live pickup. Tentative performance data are given and compared with those for present vidicon-type camera tubes."
"A new color monitor has been designed to serve both as a high-quality picture display device and as an instrument for judging the quality of color TV signals. It incorporates several significant design innovations, both electrical and mechanical. The highly stabilized circuits provide a picture of excellent quality. The control panel has been designed for simplicity of operation, and the mechanical design provides good accessibility for maintenance. The monitor is designed as a major tool for use in color TV plants."
"Visual amplification is a specialized application of closed-circuit TV. It is to the sense of sight what studio amplification is to the sense of hearing. This technique, described here in detail, permits the pickup and magnified display of visual details."
"The large-screen equipment available to the industry in the period around 1950 was described to the Society in a number of different papers. Since that period certain changes have taken place in the equipment, but these changes have passed generally unnoticed because of the relatively dormant state of the closed-circuit field. A survey of the equipment now used in this very active field is presented."
"Closed-circuit television has created a need for picture display equipment suitable for large groups. Basic engineering and economic factors influencing the design and use of such equipment are discussed. The wide variety of applications for such a unit dictates that special emphasis be put on compactness, mobility and easy operation. These requirements have resulted in the design of a small inexpensive TV projector suitable for color or monochrome. Its operational features are described."
"Certain film structure and processing conditions may result in smooth-surfaced processed negatives and intermediate films which cause Newton's rings when contact printed to smooth-surfaced print films. An application of a fine, evenly dispersed spray of a commercially available printers' nonoffset solution to such a film, before printing, effectively prevents these printing defects. The equipment and method of application are described."
"Silver recovery systems operating at the higher current densities require thorough solution agitation at the cathode surface in order to deposit metallic silver continuously. In the apparatus described, agitation is provided by an external pump. With the solution nozzles located tangential to a cylindrical cathode, high surface velocity is attained and mass flow held to reasonable values. Thus, the problem of excessive mechanical energy input is avoided, while the scrubbing velocity provided permits current densities as high as 10 amp/sq ft."
"Light sources used in motion-picture projection radiate heat in the form of infrared radiation as well as visible light. While the infrared radiation increases problems of overheating and film distortion it does not contribute to the screen image; therefore, maximum reduction of infrared radiation with minimum visible light loss is essential with the use of the high energy output of present-day projection light sources. A front-surface-coated projection lamp mirror is described which reflects to the film a high percentage of visible light, but which transmits through the mirror most of the infrared. Comparisons are made between front-surface-coated mirrors, rear-surface-coated mirrors and absorption-type heat filters."
"The television system requirements and audience environment conditions differ materially from those common to motion-picture theater practice. It is necessary that the standards followed for the production and processing of films for television take into account these differences. In addition, the increased complexity of the combined motion-picture and television system over the direct projection system limits the degree of freedom permissible in many phases of the operation. The standards for optimum results with the combined motion-picture and television system are developed by an examination and correlation of the relationships between the two component processes and their effects upon the end product."
"These recommended laboratory practices on films for television are intended as a guide for both producers and laboratories engaged in production and processing of such films. The recommendations contained herein are based on a committee survey of the literature and answers to a questionnaire sent to numerous people engaged in production, laboratory and television operations."
"Although lenticular film is not new, it has become a subject of current interest as a possible new tool for color television. This paper provides a basic description of the film and its associated equipment, and reviews the capabilities and limitations of this method of recording color information on black-and-white emulsion. Differences in technique and new equipment requirements peculiar to lenticular film are covered from an overall system viewpoint. Filter requirements and lens design are outlined, as are possible designs for cameras, projectors, printers and viewers."
"Two different sensitometers are used in the Kodak Research Laboratories for making test exposures on Eastman Embossed Kinescope Recording Film, Type 5209. One of these instruments which is designed to simulate practical color-kinescope recording conditions quite closely, uses an RCA Type 5ZP16 kinescope as the light source. The other, designed for convenience and repeatability of performance, employs filtered light from a photographic “speedlight,” or electronic flash unit. Special features of the sensitometers are discussed, and some test procedures are suggested."
"The Analyzer for negative, or positive, color original film displays instantaneously a positive color picture on a color TV tube when a color original is inserted in the device. Color balance and density are adjusted by calibrated controls whose settings are used by a printer to produce a positive closely approximating the displayed picture. The device uses TV techniques to simulate additively the subtractive properties of positive film in spectral taking sensitivities, gamma, contrast and unwanted dye absorptions."
"This paper describes a light valve which is actuated from a control tape without use of intervening relays. The average change in intensity will take 10 msec, or less than one sprocket hole, when printer is running at 90 ft/min. The total maximum change obtainable is three stops which may be divided into 32 or 64 equal logarithmic increments. Flatness of field is that of a projection-type system. Light intensity is limited only by the size of lamp used."
"Tricolor filters are used to print Eastman Color Negative Film, Type 5248 onto Eastman Panchromatic Separation Film, Type 5235, and for printing these separations onto Eastman Color Internegative Film, Type 5245 and onto Eastman Color Intermediate Film, Type 5253. Such filters are also used in additive printers for making prints onto Eastman Color Print Film, Type 5382. The gelatin filters used for this purpose can be replaced with glass filters with a great increase in stability and a gain in exposure. All the glass filters recommended are standard, stock Corning glass filters with one exception. A unique red-absorbing filter, used in the green filter combination, has been made on special order by the Corning Glass Works and will be supplied by the Eastman Kodak Company."
"Professionally, sound motion pictures traditionally are made by the double system, affording flexibility in shooting, processing and editing. The methods described now open to the semiprofessional and to the amateur simple means to accomplish lip-sync 16mm sound using standard available cameras and the Kodak Pageant Magnetic-Optical Sound Projector."
"The U.S. Navy's expeditions to Antarctica as well as its Arctic operations over the past several decades have cast a new light on cameras, techniques and “winterization” of equipment. This paper discusses the Navy's use of still and motion-picture cameras in cold weather and their application on Operation DEEPFREEZE."
"The method described makes it possible to record electronic signals at video frequencies on photographic materials. employing the modulation of light intensity by ultrasonic waves, the system is capable of resolution an dynamic range performance well in excess of that obtained with conventional methods. both black-and-white and color modulation of light are possible. ultrasonic light modulation has been successfully employed to obtain high-quality radar information, and it is inherently capable of providing a similar function in video recording — either field-by-field or continuous."
"Optimum results from a magnetic recording-reproducing chain can be achieved only if the equipment is adjusted to take full advantage of the capabilities of the magnetic media available. Proper adjustment presupposes knowledge of those capabilities. The paper discusses the relationships of recording level, distortion, optimum bias, signal-to-noise ratio and their effects on the final reproduced signal."
"A variable-area or density photographic recording system has been designed with optional magnetic recording facilities. A short cabinet, containing transmission equipment of new design, and an associated table and recorder form a compact operating unit. The recorder provides a simplified film path for photographic and magnetic recording, improved optics and a novel visual monitor. Of particular interest are transistorized monitor amplifiers, simplified exposure meter and an improved compressor-amplifier."
"A study of human factors in equipment design has been conducted. This paper describes in detail the design of a technical director's operating console used to assemble and control a TV film coordinating studio. The application of anthropometrical data is discussed. Psychological as well as physical factors are considered."
"Adequate viewing facilities are essential to quality control in a modern film laboratory. Facilities designed for viewing productions for the motion-picture screen must be increased and supplemented before they can be used to properly view and inspect film intended for TV presentation. This paper describes facilities provided by General Film Laboratories Corp. in Hollywood."
"The elimination of the effect of negative support scratches by printing with the negative in intimate contact with a liquid requires a liquid with very specific properties. The criteria that influence the selection of a liquid are described. In the absence of a perfect liquid, the requirements of specific printing techniques must be analyzed in relation to possible compromise liquids or liquid mixtures. Over 90 compounds are evaluated by a system of “ratings” of their capabilities for use in printing. Decahydronaphthalene, trichloroethylene, tetrachloroethylene, and mixtures of Freon-113 liquid or methyl chloroform with tetrachloroethylene, or toluene are suggested as practical compromise liquids."
"One of the most expensive methods of film-cleaning, that of cleaning by hand on a drum, is considered to be the best for achieving the cleanest possible film. In building the drum described in this paper every effort was made to make the operation as efficient as possible. The drum is motor-driven, forward and reverse, has a solenoid brake, and the drive and the brake can be disengaged for manual operation."
"Motion-picture film is usually cleaned with materials that require the use of an exhaust hood to prevent any hazard to the operator. In the usual exhaust hood there is a steady influx of air carrying airborne dirt some of which settles on film which has just been cleaned. A dust-free exhaust hood has been developed which utilizes a curtain of filtered air to prevent the entrance of airborne dirt."
"16mm Super Anscochrome Daylight Type 225 was introduced in 1957 and Super Anscochrome Tungsten Type 226 was introduced early in 1958. Each of these types of film has an exposure index of 100 with normal processing. This high speed makes possible the production of motion pictures in full color."
"The air-blown carbon arc has been further refined by the use of a noncoated graphite rod negative which is rotated to reduce carbide deposits to a minimum. Design of components has been simplified to facilitate maintenance and servicing. Controls have been simplified for ease of operation in the theater. The advantages of the infrared transmitting reflector and new 25-in. positive carbon have been consolidated in this development."
"The factors affecting the visibility and photographability of distant objects through the atmosphere are described. The manner in which each factor deteriorates the visual or photographic image is explained in detail. Means are suggested for reducing the effect of these factors to a minimum in the photography of airborne test targets."
"The term “visibility” is used in reference to detection and optical-photographic recording of objects of small apparent angular size viewed through the atmosphere and against a day- or night-sky background. The factors influencing such detection and recording are discussed, including the relative luminance of the object by reflected sunlight or by artificial illumination, the attenuation by the intervening atmosphere, the luminance of the sky background due to scattered light, and the sensitivity and recording capabilities of the eye. Other influencing factors include photographic emulsions, other optical detectors and the optical imaging system. This paper undertakes to demonstrate that detection and recording are dependent upon the relative contrast between the object and the sky background and are directly comparable to the astronomical problem of photographing stars against a day- or night-sky background."
"Optical data taken from an aircraft in flight as well as data secured at ground level have enabled the obscuration of high-flying missiles by the atmosphere to be ascertained and the requirements to be met by telescopic finders and cameras to be specified for several typical weather and lighting conditions."
"This type of instrumentation is based upon the principle of determining aircraft positions and attitude by photographing surveyed ground markers with one aerial camera. To obtain attitude, trajectory and documentary data of missiles launched from aircraft at high altitudes an Airborne Cinetheodolite based upon this principle has been proposed. Factors affecting the accuracy are presented."
"The basic requirements for optical tracking instruments used in missile test work are outlined and a survey is given of the instrumentation presently in use and under development. Field operating conditions and data reduction aspects and possibilities for future developments to meet the increasing demands for highly accurate information on in-flight characteristics are discussed."
"Test-range requirements for a ground-based instrument station which will combine optical, photographic, television, photoelectric and electronic event-observation and recording devices carried on a servo-driven tracking mount of theodolite accuracy are discussed. The system will obtain missile-performance data and produce records in forms suitable for use in automated data-processing systems. The tracking-mount configuration and design considerations are described in detail."
"Precise spatial position of airborne test objects such as rockets, bombs and missiles is recorded photographically on the Air Force Armament Center test ranges. The instrumentation employed, the use of triangulation in determining spatial position and the accuracies obtained are discussed."
"Photography of distant objects requires accurate exposure to achieve maximum contrast with high-contrast emulsions. The autoexposure unit described in this paper has been designed for the ROTI Mark II tracking instrument to provide the necessary control. A pair of graduated neutral density disks is used to vary the light level at the film plane. By maintaining full aperture, maximum resolution is achieved for all light conditions."
"This paper discusses theoretical circuit requirements for anamorphic television,1 producing a wide-screen image (high aspect ratio) at the receiver. The relation of aspect ratio to pictorial information as regards frequency band, defined by the first elided frequency, is discussed. Pictorial information is defined in terms of contrast and resolution. The anamorphic squeeze and unsqueeze are described. Low-noise video and novel EIA timing circuits are shown."
"Many features of the design are adaptations of ideas incorporated in other studios, but in the combination and arrangement of the components of the design there are elements of originality which may influence the construction of future sound stages."
"An ultra-slow motion-picture sequence of a rattlesnake's strike was required to disclose detail in certain mechanical aspects of this generally unpredictable action, as part of an education film on the behavior of reptiles. The authors, assisted by the Zoo's staff, succeeded in recording this event in color at 2400 pictures per second. The assignment was completed in 8 months. The approach to the problem and the method of synchronization are described."
"Forty-four experimental automobile collisions were conducted. A study was made of the two impacts that are part of every collision: first, the contact between the two automobiles; and second, the contact between the occupants and the interiors of the automobiles. Special photographic methods permitted collection of precise quantitative data as well as important qualitative information about these crashes. Superposition of before and after photos of the underbody of each vehicle facilitated analysis of the deformation of each car's structure. Camera coverage from every important angle was used to supplement the extensive electronic instrumentation designed to record the tremendous forces involved in each collision. High-speed motion-picture cameras provided the primary data for special aspects of the 50-mph head-on crashes. Photographic close-ups of the rapid sequences of injury-producing events have provided new and otherwise unobtainable scientific insight into the mechanisms of injuries in these events."
"A device has been designed to set automatically the printer light selection lever on the Models D and J Bell & Howell printers. Punched paper tape containing the printer light sequence is prepared on a Keyboard-Perforator. This paper tape is fed into a tape reader. The electrical signals produced in the reader are then decoded by a computer unit which in turn directs a servo unit in its manipulation of the printer lever. The action of the device is considerably more rapid and accurate than manual performance and it can, of course, operate in total darkness. The robot unit is easily installed on the printing machine and it demands no mechanical alteration of the printing equipment."
"A new device has been developed for the determination of the correct printing exposures for color films. The device accepts a density range test as exposed under the negative scene with average standard exposure conditions. The viewing field under the test positive may be varied in hue to the desired color balance while a condition of constant brightness is automatically maintained. A built-in analog computer calculates the corrections from the standard condition in terms of red, green and blue light for additive printing and cyan, magenta and yellow light for subtractive printing. The variable hue viewing field is surrounded by standard photometric fields to maintain constant eye adaptation. The system enables the color timer to specify correct printing conditions directly from the single test series. In most cases, a fully corrected print is produced directly from the color timing."
"A Bell & Howell Printer, Model D, can be used as a sensitometer for exposing process control strips in small laboratories or for emergency work. The variability in exposure of a printer was only slightly greater than that of a commercially used sensitometer, when the instruments were compared under carefully controlled conditions. Procedures are described for the selection and storage of check film stock, printer control, monitoring and control of illumination, and making controlled exposures."
"Magnetic tape recordings of local announcements for use with film and network programs can be easily prepared at the convenience of the announcing staff. The equipment used for this purpose makes it possible to record most of the local announcements for an 18-hour operating day in less than an hour's time. Sub-audible control tones, recorded after each announcement, automatically stop the tape transport. The technician on duty does not need to refer to the announcement continuity once he has started to play an announcement on the air. This technique can also be used with additional control tones to operate projection equipment, thereby eliminating errors on the part of operators when they are required to switch large numbers of slides during an announcement."
"With the advent of automation in TV stations, it has become apparent that methods must be developed to cue the film automatically at the start of each film sequence. This paper describes methods for automatically stopping a projector with a predetermined frame in the gate by adding suitable cuing information to the film and associated reading and control mechanisms to the projector."
"The method of utilizing synchronously driven toothed sprockets engaging complementary film sprocket holes for sound-film production is, of course, an old technique. The introduction in 1947 of sound magnetic tape having a thin and easily torn base of cellulose acetate made sprocket holes highly impractical. The two systems discussed in this paper employ magnetic equivalents of sprocket holes recorded along the tape simultaneously with the recorded sound and at the exact time of frame exposure in the camera. The “latent magnetic sprocket holes” are later reproduced to serve as a master speed control device to govern the speed of the picture film through playback equipment."
"A new optical printer has been designed with many new features incorporated in one completely coordinated unit. These features are enumerated and their functions described."
"For military purposes it is often desirable to operate a TV system at nonstandard scanning rates. This paper describes a study performed for the U.S. Army Signal Engineering Laboratories, Fort Monmouth, N. J., of the operation of standard image orthicons and vidicons at reduced rates. Resolution, sensitivity and other characteristics of these tubes have been measured. Characteristics desired for tubes designed particularly for slow-scan operation are considered."
"The thin cathode-ray tube, invented by the author and developed by Kaiser Industries West Coast Electronics Laboratory, is described. Designed primarily for “on-the-wall,” viewing, the thin tube has excellent focusing properties and permits simultaneous viewing from both sides of the display surface. The electron beam is injected along an edge of the tube and deflected twice to from a spot on the viewing surface. The physical configuration and sweeping circuits are described."
"The process of forming transparent luminescent screens by evaporation in a vacuum is described. The method is applicable to most of the common phosphors and yields screens having the same properties as these phosphors. Advantages of transparent screens, such as high resolution and high contrast, are discussed. Applications of the transparent screen to the Navy's flat cathode-ray tube, the daylight viewing tube and the laminated color tube are described."
"Two successful applications of closed-circuit TV to military purposes are described. Control of the 1957 Inaugural Parade was facilitated by information supplied to the Parade Marshal from TV cameras placed along the line of march. During Operation King Cole at Fort Polk, La., the staff sections received the briefings over closed-circuit TV while they remained in their own offices."
"Problems encountered in making kinescope recordings for use in Army recruiting programs and for other purposes are described. Procedures differ from those followed in industrial establishments."
"Military TV application requires equipment with technical and operational characteristics that differ from those found in industry. To produce such equipment the U.S. Army Signal Research and Development Laboratory conducts a comprehensive research and development program that embraces all phases of the art. A technical survey of this activity is given, indicating those technological limitations that now exist and are seriously impeding the military applications of television as well as the developed and proposed methods of solution."
"A variety of applications has been made of television equipment under extreme environments. The generally desirable characteristics of these equipments are examined. Design features of a system built for rugged usage are described."
"A remotely operated closed-circuit television system has been especially designed for viewing rocket engines under test conditions. The camera incorporates a zoom lens system, pan and tilt pedestal, and a weatherproof and soundproof camera housing. All camera functions, electrical, optical and mechanical, are completely controlled from a master control console. The problem of acoustic shielding against noise at levels around 200 db is described."
"An investigation to determine whether television could increase the range of optical tracking devices has been conducted for the U.S. Navy Air Missile Test Center, Point Mugu, Calif., by the Denver Research Institute. Range is limited by loss of object contrast. An expression is developed which indicates that electro-optical devices can detect lower contrasts than the human eye. The parameters of a TV system for aerial tracking are discussed. Both greater and lesser ranges were obtained in experiments. Other means by which TV performance might be improved are discussed."
"An airborne television system which utilizes the image orthicon was developed for the USAF for use in a high-performance aircraft. The system requirements are such that the more sensitive wide-spaced image-orthicon pickup tube is used with a nonstandard line and field rate."
"A machine is described for the cleaning of motion-picture film by the spray application of water containing a detergent. Following the spray wash, rinse sprays and an Ott-type squeegee provide additional cleaning action prior to drying. The film is wet for such a short time that little moisture penetration occurs, and only a brief drying time is necessary. The film is not subjected to physical contact with wipers or buffers, nor are other scratch or abrasion hazards present on the machine. Surface deposits, loose dirt, and embedded dirt normally encountered on motion-picture film are effectively removed. Coatings of some alkali-soluble lacquer used on motion-picture film are effectively removed by the use of alkaline solutions in the sprays in place of the detergent solution. The results of experimental cleaning trials have shown this machine to be particularly satisfactory for color films. Black-and-white films may be subject to density losses when rewetted and dried more than 10 times."
"Dual-strip 35mm projectors carrying picture and sound on separate films have been in use for years in editing and production work. Siemens & Halske has had for some time a 16/8 dual-strip projector, consisting of their Model 2000 Projector with an additional film transport system for 8mm magnetic sound film. This is used chiefly by schools and industrial film makers for adding sound to silent films, as well as for supplying vernacular narration for foreign-language films."
"The method of measuring the resolution characteristic (or “spatial spectrum”) of kinescopes with electrically generated sine-wave patterns has proved to give consistently accurate data at all beam currents varying from a few microamperes to several milliamperes. It is independent of the phosphor decay time and can therefore be used for measurement of color kinescope performance including the effects of misregistry. The ability to measure the response at very low “optical” (or spatial) frequencies gives numerical information on the haze and large diffusion disk surrounding the spot nucleus."
"Many problems encountered in high-speed photography of erratic self-luminous events, such as fires, flames, liquid metals and furnace interiors, can be overcome with lens attachments. A new approach to exposure calculation, using computed speed-characteristic curves of cameras, is explained and examples given."
"Because the various kinds of dirt that can accumulate on motion-picture film degrade the image quality of negatives and positives, film cleaning has always been an important operation. This paper reviews the problems of cleaning current color and black-and-white films, and classifies possible cleaning solvents on the basis of inertness to film, hazards to personnel, risk of fire, physical properties and cleaning efficiency. No solvent meets all requirements but commercial operation is possible with carbon tetrachloride, Freon-113 and hexane. Methyl chloroform, now commercially available, has some advantages over each of these. As a matter of fact, practical cleaning can also be accomplished with water. The importance of good technique in film cleaning is emphasized."
"Hundreds of release prints are discarded annually because of needless damage to the film. This fact has received renewed emphasis with the increased use of film in television. Proper film handling procedures and techniques are described, starting with the “green” print and the need for film lubrication, then on through projection, cleaning and inspection."
"The continued growth of the vidicon type of television pickup camera in both the industrial and studio broadcast fields has precipitated the development of a new series of lenses intended particularly to fulfill the requirements imposed by this type of camera. These lenses have been optically and mechanically designed to provide a high degree of illumination as well as an excellent aberrational correction and level of performance throughout the entire receptor area."
"Lenses intended for use on vidicon-type TV cameras must have wide relative aperture and uniformity of illumination throughout the picture area and must yield the type of performance demanded by TV transmission channels. The picture format is larger than that utilized in 16mm film cameras and the aberrational effects of the tube end glass thickness are perceptible. The paper discusses the suitability of standard cinematographic lenses under these conditions of use and describes a new range of lenses designed specifically for this purpose."
"In the rapidly growing field of closed-circuit TV, zoom lenses are becoming increasingly important. A number of zoom lenses are now available. The different characteristics of these lenses are described, their advantages and disadvantages discussed and their functions explained."
"A new type of automatic iris control is incorporated in the Bell & Howell Design 290 8mm camera. The iris control is operated solely by power from a photovoltaic cell, made feasible by the exceptionally low power requirements of a unique rotary “barn-door” iris. The method of construction results in a highly shock-resistant mechanism with an almost unlimited service life. The automatic control is described and some of the design considerations discussed."
"A method is described for measuring the spectral transmission of the individual elements of color screens. The procedure involves the use of masks to block selectively the unwanted colors in order to allow spectrophotometric measurements to be made on the chosen color."
"The Recommended Practice presented herewith represents three years work by the participating committees. Of necessity it resulted in the formation of an inter-society committee, the Joint I.E.S.-S.M.P.T.E.* Committee on Equipment Performance Ratings."
"Compatible color television imposes a new requirement on the material used for broadcasting. Not only must a pleasing color picture result but also the monochrome picture must be satisfactory. These results may be accomplished through the use of artists' colors which have been tested in the broadcast station. The ChromaCHron palette is devised and tested to meet the needs of color television broadcasting, for best appearance of the final picture in both color and black-and-white."
"Much of the film currently being supplied for television purposes is of poor quality. This problem is discussed and factors contributing to this unsatisfactory situation are considered. Some remedial practices are suggested."
"Optimum performance from the motion-picture projector requires that it be designed as an integral optical-mechanical system. Using one component of the projector as an example, the first part of this paper illustrates the fact that specifications for the individual components cannot be arbitrarily assigned without regard to the other components of the system and that an improvement in any one aspect of performance may be accompanied by a degradation in some other aspect. A suggestion is made as to how improvement in motion-picture projection equipment can be attained through the cooperative action of equipment manufacturers and the professional societies. — The second part of the paper is a description of each of the optical components of present-day projectors aimed at answering some of the questions which are continually being asked of the optical manufacturer, thereby presenting an insight into the many factors which the optical designer must consider and why an integral design is so essential for optimum performance."
"Before his death in 1955, Samuel B, Grimson* developed an ingenious film pulldown and film registration mechanism that formed a part of a special contact printer, designed specifically to achieve a “dot by dot” order of registration between the negative and positive films at the printer aperture, as is required for rendition by line-screen and reseau processes. Registration is derived from a claw and pilot-pin method that assures perfect registration between the films without any punching or bruising action by the claws or by the pilot pins. Grimson's mechanism is described by a man who for many years was associated with him and who designed and constructed most of his laboratory equipment."
"Xenon-arc lamps have inherent properties as to spectral energy, luminous efficiency, electrical operation, and geometrical characteristics which make them attractive from both a technical and an operational point of view as a new light source for motion-picture projection. Practical experience with European installations is reported, supplementing the report immediately preceding in this issue of the Journal."
"Requirements for film editing in a television operation differ from those in any other branch of the motion-picture industry. Inspection must be accurate. A complete equipment, known as the Inspect-O-Film Editor, has now been designed to perform all the steps of inspection simultaneously. Operating details of the machine are discussed with emphasis on how it functions in actual operation."
"The dyes in Eastman Color Print Film are quite satisfactory for stability when the film is processed according to recommended procedures. Their stability under conditions of high temperature and high humidity can, however, be seriously affected by retained hypo and/or abnormal pH of the processed emulsion. These conditions can be prevented by following recommended processing procedures, particularly the final wash. A simple method of measuring the emulsion pH directly on the processed film, and emulsion pH control parameters are described."
"Densities of a gray card held in the key light of each scene provide accurate information for predicting printing packs. This timing method has advantages over the full-frame integrated density method in certain cases. A slide-rule type calculator has been used to predict subtractive printer balances from gray-card densities with a timing accuracy of ±0.03 log E on the first trial in an Eastman Color Negative-Print system. Equations are included for using a matrix calculator for this purpose."
"By a Happy Coincidence, it was 63 years ago today that the first exhibition of a projected motion picture took place. On a Sunday afternoon, April 21, 1895, Woodville Latham demonstrated an enlarged Kinetoscope to a group of reporters. Instead of viewing the motion picture through a lens set in a peep hole, like earlier systems, the picture was presented by transmitted light on a screen. Although this invention was at best a crude device, it did represent the first expression of a move toward the screen. The industry has come a long way since then and the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers has been an important factor in its progress for the past 42 years. Recognition of these years of service to the Motion Picture Industry by the members of the Society was exemplified in the recent Academy Award voted to our Society by the Board of Governors of the Motion Picture Academy of Arts and Sciences. Although I had the pleasure, on your behalf, of receiving the “Oscar” from the lovely Bette Davis, it is your award and is here for you to see before it is suitably mounted at Headquarters."
"These are excerpts from the remarks at the April 21, 1958, Get-Together Luncheon, by Mr. Brackett who has been writing for motion pictures in Hollywood since 1934 and has produced a score of distinguished films, including The Lost Weekend and most recently Ten North Frederick."
"As is stated in AIEE No. 1, accelerated life tests are recommended to determine the probable life expectancy of electrical insulating materials and of complete insulation systems under different conditions of service. Recommended procedures for conducting life tests at various temperatures to accelerate insulation degradation are outlined in AIEE 1D and lE. AIEE publications Nos. 57, 65, 510 and 511 are examples of test procedures developed for this purpose. After life data from such tests have been obtained at different temperatures, the problem is to evaluate the resultant data so that the life expectancy of insulation can be estimated. For this purpose, life expectancy is considered as a function of temperature. The most probable form of this relationship, and its reliability, are determined by the statistical procedures outlined herein."
"This Standard applies to the following types of devices designed for operation above 600 volts whether for indoor or outdoor service. (a) Fuses (see paragraph 25-50). (b) Fuse cutouts (see paragraph 25-64). (c) Fuse parts of combined equipment."
"This test code is concerned with tests on a representative sample of an industrial control device or apparatus in order to substantiate conformance of that type of device or apparatus with a recognized standard of performance. The aim is to insure that the test methods and procedures are capable of giving information which is pertinent, significant, and reproducible. No attempt is made to specify standards of acceptability for the apparatus, nor to suggest which, if any of these tests, should be made."
"These standards are supplementary to, and should be used in conjunction with American Standard Y32.2, Graphical Symbols for Electrical Diagrams. The following are some points of general philosophy underlying their development:1. The symbol structure should reflect the past, i.e., the symbols should, within a logical framework, revert in their simplest forms to those commonly in present case.2. The symbol structure should look to the future, i.e.. it should be capable of extension to the many new semiconductor devices that may become available.3. The symbol structure should indicate physical properties when this is possible without over complication.Section 2 illustrates the application of the ancillary symbols of Section 1 to a variety of semiconductor devices. For Methods of Test and Letter Symbols for Semiconductor Devices, see AIEE Standard No. 425."
"The scope of this standard is to set forth the basic data on magnetic amplifier core materials that should be presented by manufacturers of core materials so that the magnetic amplifier designer will have available the parameters of the material particularly significant to magnetic amplifier design. The tests proposed in this standard are not intended as methods of matching and grading magnetic amplifier cores."
"Presents the title page of the proceedings record."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"The results of the survey made two years ago indicate that the Digest is used in significantly different ways by various individuals. Some people apparently read the Digest from cover to cover in order to keep abreast of the progress in the whole area; others read only chapters of specific interest; and still others use the Digest mainly for reference purposes when the need arises. As a result of this diversity in usage, the editors and authors are always faced with difficult problems in organizing the Digest for maximum usefulness. The most difficult perennial problem is concerned with the definition of the coverage of each chapter. In order to meet the requirements resulting from the varied usage, each chapter must be reasonably complete in itself and yet not overlap other chapters by an unreasonable amount or leave gaps in the over-all coverage. Some overlap is not only unavoidable but desirable; however, a rigid policy is difficult to set. I believe that the form, style, and coverage of each chapter should not be frozen but should be continuously developed and improved by its authors and by the editors. This year has seen a stage in this growth process. The chapter on “Engineering Applications”, introduced last year, has been extended in scope and as a result overlaps to some extent several of the chapters in Part Three on Insulation. Very little of the overlap contained in the original manuscripts was eliminated this year as it was felt that in most cases the overlap made the individual chapters more self-sufficient. This overlap is bound to increase and in the future a more rigid definition of the coverage of these chapters will be necessary."
"In order to facilitate the preparation of an introduction to the Digest it is customary to request a summary from each of the authors. The response to these requests is reflected in this introduction. For the most part, the summaries which were prepared by the various authors described the significant achievements which were reported in their respective areas during the year. In each case, however, certain general remarks were included, and the similarity in these general remarks is so striking that they merit special mention."
"A very comprehensive volume of “what every physicist should know” is now available in the Handbook of Physics edited by Condon and Odishaw (1). The handbook is divided into nine parts, each devoted to a different basic area of physics. In Part 4, Electricity and Magnetism, dielectrics are treated very thoroughly, starting from the basic theory of dielectrics. The basic theory of magnetic materials is similarly treated, while other chapters in Part 4 are devoted to electrical measurements, electrolytic conductivity and electrode processes, and conduction in gases, to mention only a few. Extensive references appear at the end of each chapter."
"The tables of dielectric constants, dipole moments, and dielectric relaxation times, in this compilation are based upon references to the original literature, reported in Chemical Abstracts during the year 1958, and not already covered in these Tables in the 1957 Digest of Literature on Dielectrics. Virtually all the references were directly referred to in the original papers, since in the large majority of cases the abstract was deemed incomplete for the purposes of this compilation."
"This year witnessed a decline in the number of publications from many investigators from whom we have come to expect one or two papers annually on molecular and ionic interactions in dielectrics. On the other hand, an enormous increase in dielectric studies is appearing in the literature of India, Japan, and the USSR. Hungary and Yugoslavia have also begun to report serious studies. Because the dielectric-solution technique is a simple, inexpensive method of teaching and studying the configuration of molecules, it is a superlative entree into physical chemistry and is probably being used by some of these nations in their efforts to industrialize. In view of this, it is not unexpected to find that a considerable amount of the work reported is pedestrian and would normally be reported in internal reports or “house organs”. Some investigators, especially those using the techniques of dielectric spectroscopy, have a tendency in their enthusiasm to overextend their findings. In many cases the resolution of their techniques is not high; experience will probably temper their ardor."
"The lectures given at the International Summer School on Solid-State Physics at Varenna, Italy, have been published as a special issue of Nuovo Cimento (1). Some of the articles are concerned with topics which are of basic interest in the study of conduction in dielectrics, but are too general to be inserted under the detailed headings below. The lecture by Seitz (page 414), on point imperfections in solids, dealt in passing with conduction mechanisms in alkali and silver halides. Lidiard (page 620) considered the correlation effects which are encountered when the vacancy or interstitial mechanism of diffusion takes place in ionic crystals of various structures, and Brown (page 600) gave a review of the methods which have been used to find the mobility of conduction electrons in silver halides."
"A number of studies of the statistics of Townsend avalanche production were made in 1958. Frommhold (1), bas examined the conditions under which the theory of Wijsman, relating the number of avalanches to their size, is valid. Using counting techniques, he measured avalanche size distributions in oxygen, air and methane, and found the Wijsman statistics valid providing the field was not too close to that necessary for breakdown, in which case secondary γ processes produced “satellite” avalanches. The mean avalanche sizes corresponded to those predicted from known values of the ionization coefficient α when allowance was made for attachment processes in oxygen and air. Schlumbohm (2) has extended this work to include ethyl alcohol, methane, acetone and methylal, and, in addition to the deviations observed by Frommhold, has found that in many cases there was a marked paucity of small avalanches in the distribution. This has been correlated with the parameter κ = E/αUi, where E is the field strength and Ui is the ionization potential. Unless κ ≫ 1 the Wijsman distribution cannot be valid. Schmidt-Tiedemann (3), using a fast oscilloscopic technique to examine currents due to individual avalanches at lower values of pd (pressure x gap) than were used by Vogel and Raether (1957), have obtained values for the second Townsend coefficient, γ, for clean copper, oxidized copper and oxidized tungsten in nitrogen, hydrogen and oxygen. Their technique permits separate evaluations of that part of γ due to positive ions, γi, and that due to photons, γp. Depending upon the gas or the cathode material, one or the other of these effects may predominate. Of particular interest is the overall value of γ obtained with oxidized tungsten, 10−9, a value low enough to permit streamer breakdown to occur even at low pd. Kessemeier (4) has constructed an interesting device in which positive ions are held back by a double grid system placed between the anode and cathode, while electrons are transmitted. By thus eliminating positive-ion γ effects at the cathode, avalanches of very large size can be obtained."
"1958 was another big year for discovery of new ferroelectrics, both water-soluble (largely organic) crystals and oxide ferroelectrics. The leading laboratory was that of Professor Pepinsky at Pennsylvania State University, with important contributions also being made in Japan and Russia."
"Activity in the general field of magnetism continues to increase. In addition to ever increasing numbers of regular journal articles devoted to this subject, the past year has seen an increased number of conferences devoted in part or entirely to magnetism. Several issues of proceedings of previous conferences have been published this past year."
"This chapter reviews the important publications on electrical insulation with regard to rubber and plastic materials. Because of the vast amount of information printed on this subject, it was necessary to be selective in the choice of publications to avoid repetition and references to purely commercial announcements. The authors believe this review is representative of the information that was published during the year and they hope that it is relatively complete."
"This chapter presents a review of the literature published during 1958 on unsupported insulating films. It also extends beyond the limited scope of its title to include a coverage of the literature on various fibrous products such as paper and textiles which both historically and economically occupy an important position as electrical insulating materials."
"For the first time, the literature reviewed in this chapter does not specifically cover applications of insulating liquids, but instead attempts to emphasize the theory and properties of those materials which are now or are potentially, liquid insulators. Applications will be covered in the chapter of this Digest devoted entirely to applications."
"During 1958 the trend to more rigorous operating environments was reflected in continued attention to the high-temperature properties of ceramics in general and to the effects of radiation on glass in particular. There was further interest in non-silicate glasses, and the understanding of the sintering process in the absence of a glassy phase was enlarged. The usual incremental improvements in compositions and processing continued to be made, and the general study of the properties of materials continued to attract interest."
"Progress in the application of insulation to rotating electrical machines has continued unabated throughout 1958. Particularly evident in the literature is the effort of engineers to use more of the new synthetics, which are available in such abundance, as well as improved and modified conventional and natural materials. Many of these new and modified materials have, by ingenious means, been combined and integrated into practical insulation systems designed to meet particular requirements of a manufacturer of rotating machines or of a user industry. From the standpoint of application, a material, per se, has little value as a dielectric until it can be proved to perform suitably in combination with other components which are required to provide a physically (mechanically and thermally) sound insulation system."
"This Code covers electric brushes for all types of rotating alternating-current and direct-current motors and generators and similar apparatus."
"The primary purpose of this Guide is to present and discuss the applicability and limitations of the various measurement methods now in use, or available, for testing the electrical insulation of power apparatus in the field. The purpose of this Guide is also to consider the special conditions encountered in field testing, and their effect on instruments, methods and procedures for making tests on the electrical insulation of power apparatus."
"This test code applies to instrument transformers of present-day design with high-voltage windings insulation class 2.3 kv and above and low-voltage windings below 1 kv insulation class that are immersed in mineral oil."
"This standard covers electrical characteristics and mechanical features of 3-phase, 60cycle, 2-winding, mineral-oil-immersed indoor transformers rated 250 to 35000 kva, inclusive, high voltage 2400 to 34400 volts, inclusive, used for supplying electric power to direct arc ferrous-melting furnaces. 17-00.012 All characteristics and definitions, except as specifically covered in this standard, shall be in accordance with the American Standard Requirements, Terminology and Test Code for Distribution, Power and Regulating Transformers, and Reactors Other Than Current-Limiting Reactors, C57.12-1958, or the latest revision thereof approved by the American Standards Association, Incorporated. Certain information in the American Standard and in this First Report may eventually be included in sections which will be prepared for general requirements, terminology and test code for arc furnace transformers."
"The scope of this recommended practice is restricted to the recommendation of nominal dimensions for toroidal strip-wound cores made from magnetic tape between approximately 0.014 and 0.005 inch in thickness and without regard to the type of magnetic material used. Bobbin-wound cores of ultra-thin magnetic tapes are not included. Also excluded from consideration are recommendations on dimensional tolerances, space factors, number of wraps of tape, core case shape or size, and particular values of strip thickness."
"Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record."
"The following topics are dealt with: electrical insulation; corona effects; tree breakdowns; thermal breakdowns; impulse electric strength; irradiation effects; dielectric measurements; insulation resistance; and surface charges."
"Presents the introductory welcome message from the conference proceedings. May include the conference officers' congratulations to all involved with the conference event and publication of the proceedings record."
"List conference participants and meeting sessions."
"It is well known that electrical insulation may be damaged by corona generated when the system is subjected to extreme voltages. We investigated the effects of corona on conventional, high-pressure polyethylene as a part of our program of basic research on electrical insulation for possible use in high voltage cable."
"Most of this presentation consisted of a motion picture of 21 tree-breakdowns between needle points about 1 mm. apart in strips of the following materials about l/8 inch thick: Three types of polyethylene Unvulcanized natural rubber Transparent polyvinyl chloride Polystyrene Unvulcanized Butyl Rubber Polyurethane The growing trees were photographed by transmitted light, so that the microchannels looked black. An ordinary 16 mm. movie camera was mounted over the microscope and focussed on infinity. Voltages up to 20 KV AC were chosen to give the desired rate of tree growth. All pictures were made at the actual speed, not by time lapse photography. Figure 1 shows frames including the breakdown flash. Immediately after this a balloon-like dark figure formed and quickly disappeared. This was caused by a lens effect of the hotter polyethylene that deflected the transmitted light. There was no carbonization."
"According to Time magazine, the dreadful summer of 1955 will be remembered for a long time to come in the Eastern United States. Beginning in July, the region was withered by drought and a heat wave, the worst on record, with temperatures in the 90's for a large part of the month. Then Hurricanes Connie and Diane flooded the Northeast, killing more than 250 people and causing property damage well in excess of $1.5 billion (1)."
"Historically, power factor “tip up” or increase with voltage as a result of internal discharges has been a sort of qualitative indication of internal discharges and of an insulation quality. In European countries, the slope of the rising power factor voltage curve has been used in specifications of high voltage generator insulation. It is the purpose of this paper to emphasize the value of considering the capacitance increase associated with internal discharges at high voltages."
"When uniform-field, impulse electric strength measurements were made in different laboratories on liquids having ostensibly the same composition, the resulting values of electric strength often differed by as much as a factor of seven. To resolve this discrepancy, a study of the problem revealed that differences in the following experimental conditions might be responsible for the divergence of results: (1) electrode shape and spacing; (2) electrode composition; (3) physical impurities in the liquid (e.g., dust content); (4) waveshape of the testing voltage; and (5) chemical impurities in the liquid samples. While the findings of Wilson (1) and Weber and Endicott (2) had demonstrated the importance of the electrode spacing and shape in determining the measured strength, it was desirable to make a survey of the relative importance of all these factors. The last named variable, viz., the effect of chemical impurities, was not investigated but merely held constant by using samples from the same batch of oil throughout the experiments. The experimental results are summarized."
"It should be stated that these findings do not terminate work on the project. At the present time efforts are being made to obtain a pulse generator giving pulses of less than a microsecond length. It is planned to repeat the preceding experiments using this pulse generator in order to determine the effect of much shorter times on the statistical availability of electrons for precipitating breakdowns. In addition, experiments designed to localize the source of the increasing trend within the groups of breakdowns are being planned. The above experiments will be repeated changing the atmosphere between the electrodes after each breakdown in order to determine how much, if any, of the rising trend is due to the atmosphere between the electrodes. It is also planned to repeat these experiments in an inert atmosphere, such as helium, in order to determine how much, if any, of the rising trend is due to the corrosion and pitting of the electrodes."
"The purpose of this paper is to describe some recently developed techniques which have been found useful for dielectric measurements, primarily of liquids and gases."
"Tantalum has been sputtered onto glass microscope slides to form films of tantalum in the thickness range of from 4000 to 10000 Angstrom units. These films, whose surfaces are nearly optically flat, provide a very smooth material, which has had no mechanical or chamical polishing, on which anodically formed tantalum oxide may be investigated."
"In most direct current measurements no distinction is made between conduction current and absorption current. Actually, what is commonly called insulation resistance is calculated on the basis of total current which may be almost wholly absorption current."
"This summary of results on charge measurements made on dielectric surfaces is being written to cover the necessary requirements for an oral presentation, which has already been cleared in the form of a short abstract, at the Conference on Electrical Insulation in Pittsburgh, October 8, 1958."
"The magnetic amplifier should be operated at its nominal rated conditions except for its control circuit quantities and output quantities"
