"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"In its Professional-Group system, the IRE has employed segregation as a means of providing a number of independent communication systems, each devoted to a clearly defined part of the technology. Two apparent indexes of the success of the plan are the number of Professional Groups that have been set up and thep roportion of the IRE membership which is enrolled in these groups. Under the assumption that if a little of something is good, a lot of it will be better, we could continue to give birth to new Professional Groups until their number equals the number of members of the IRE or perhaps exceeds it. There are twenty-eight Professional Groups and one may be e2cused in reading over their names for wondering if some of these could not be coordinated to advantage. There can be too much segregation, and .one dreads the day when there is set up a new Professional Group on Adjustable Transducers Having Logarithmic Taper for Clockwise Rotation."
"This paper sets forth the requirements for synchronization of single-sideband carrier systems and the methods of accomplishing absolute synchronization. The problems of application to existing systems and alternative solutions are discussed."
"Communication during the re-entry of a space vehicle is a formidable problem because thermally-ionized gas in a shock wave surrounding such a vehicle absorbs the signal over the major portion of the radio spectrum. This paper describes some general features of re-entry communications. The entire electromagnetic spectrum is examined for selection of a suitable signal frequency."
"Single-sideband suppressed-carrier modulation has been the backbone system for telephone multichannel carrier equipment for many years. However, particularly in recent years, a number of other modulation systems have been applied in lesser or greater degrees, with the emergence of new problems in telephone transmission. These problems are related to economics, bulk of equipment, power consumption, phase distortion as it is related to data, etc."
"An experimental program at approximately 50 mc has been carried out over a 1295-km east-west ionospheric-scatter path to determine the comminucation capacity of the propagation medium using ordinary modulation techniques. Binary error-rate studies using dual-narrow-band frequency-shift-keyed terminal equipment were made to observe the dependence of error rate in scatter propagation on signal-to-noise ratio, multipath factors, and Doppler shifts. With respect to multipath limitation, using antennas of 6° beamwidth, error rate is found to be independent of transmission speed to 500 binary digits per second. Tests were made using dual-diversity narrow-beam rhombic antennas, and dual- and quadruple-diversity broad-beam Yagi antennas. The use of four Yagi antennas gave very promising results as compared to use of two narrow-beam antennas. Frequency shifts of 2, 4, and 6 kc were used to determine the effect of meteor Doppler components in the received signal, leading to recommendations for minimum frequency shift. Though actual modulation tests have so far been made at a frequency of 49.6 mc only, systematic observations of longdelay signals of the order of 10 to 80 msec were made at 30 and 40 mc, using pulse techniques. These delayed signals arrived at the receiver via the F2backscatter mode, and were occasionally of sufficient strength to cause binary errors for circuits operating in these frequency ranges. Studies of intelligibility for voice transmission were made using narrow-band frequency modulation and single-sideband modulation. Using 20-kw power, the frequencymodulation tests with dual-diversity receivers and narrow-beam rhombic antennas gave good results at levels of signal-to-noise ratio exceeded for 90 per cent of the year at 50 mc."
"The need for high-speed, reliable, low-cost terminal printers in communications and data processing has been forcefully brought home with the advent of electronic computers, telemetry and electronic data processing systems. Our ability to printout has not kept pace with our ability to furnish information at high speed. Electro-mechanical devices are being pushed beyond their practical ultimate limit, resulting in unreliable, high cost operation. The solution lies in electronics-nonimpact printing and recording that takes these terrific speeds in stride! This article deals with Burroughs' new electrostatic printing technique and the high-speed, low-cost equipments utilizing this technique, such as communications teleprinters, printed tape recorders, and oscillographs."
"A synchronous receiver for double-sideband suppressed carrier signals in the 225-mc to 400-mc band is described. The receiver is suitable for voice or data link operation and provides automatic correction of Doppler shifts in the received signal. The \"local carrier\" oscillator is crystal stabilized at the IF frequency, and electronically tuned by a closed servo loop in which the locallygenerated carrier is compared with the received double-sideband signal. The parameters of the AFC loop have been designed to provide correction from plus or minus 5 kc. The development of this receiver represents a significant advance in the state of the communications art since it extends the advantages of suppressed carrier communications to high-performance aircraft in the UHF or higher frequency bands. The receiver development was sponsored by an Air Force (RADC) contract for development of a multiple-channel UHF transceiver for synchronous communication and is designated the AN/GRC-88 (XW-1)."
"At the Symposium of Global Communications in Washington, DC in June, 1954, the author presented a paper discussing the global public telephone service as provided by the American Telephone and Telegraph Company (AT&T). It is proposed here to review some aspects of public telephone service in the light of the important developments that have taken place since then."
"Two theoretical data systems (Shannon's ideal channel with average power limitation and the ideal symmetrical binary channel) are compared with the recent results of HF-data transmission tests over a 5000-mile link. The 30-to-40-db increase in signal power required in the practical case is analyzed. NonGaussisn noise, multipath disturbances (fading), and lack of coding are reasons usually mentioned to explain this poor efficiency of presently available data systems. The present paper points towards one additional reason: low-order signal alphabets. Binary or quaternary sets of transmission signals can not achieve the ideal channel capacity as long as decision systems have to operate at 8-to-10-db \"energy contrast\" (E/N_{o}) for a sufficiently low error rate. To more nearly approach the ideal capacity, it appears necessary to follow most of ten important principles when designing an \"integrated\" data system. Operating with higher-order signaling systems and applying error-correcting codes are the two principles which promise the largest increase in transmission efficiency. All the rest of these ten \"Cardinal Principles\" are discussed briefly."
"The \"Experimental Automatic Ground/Air/Ground Communication System (AGACS)\" under development for the Bureau of Research and Development, Federal Aviation Agency, will provide a two-way traffic control data link permitting automatic mechanized communication for essential routine flight information between the air and ground environments. The system selected is operable in both VHF and UHF aircraft communication bands and permits choice of FSK-carrier or FSK-AM modulation. Up to 500 aircraft may be interrogated and reply on a single channel in a time period of two minutes or less. Information is binary coded and transmitted by time-division multiplex techniques at a data rate of 750 bits per second."
"A seven-hop 295-mile combined microwave and tropospheric forward-scatter communications system is being installed for carrying voice, timing, telemetering, radar data, and controls for the Eglin Gulf Testing Range. System design of the frequency-diversity 7000-mc microwave system is reviewed, as well as the design of the four-fold diversity 2000-mc scatter system. Problems of special interest on transmission of timing signals, telemetry, and radar digital data are discussed and solutions indicated. Considerations for reliability, flexibility and ease of maintenance are indicated. Integration of the range operations by use of the commnnications system is described."
"All the available ionospheric records for stations located north of 60° geographic latitude and for the period 1954 to 1957 were critically analyzed. The F2 region shows two distinct types: one, north of 75° with very little or no diurnal and seasonal variation in the critical frequency; the second, south of 70°N, exhibits diurnal and seasonal variations as well as those correlated with sunspot activity. Communication by means of abnormal ionization, such as Es, is known. We found three types of sporadic E abnormalities; namely, the Thule type, the Auroral-Belt type, and the Mixed type. These types show a distinct geographic distribution which is of utmost importance for planning communication links within the Arctic as well as between continental U. S. and the Arctic. Auroras can be used as reflectors or scatterers."
"The problem of traffic control in this country's airways has been discussed at length in recent years. It is generally agreed that an automatic data-link type of system will be needed to prevent saturation of radio channels and of the airways themselves as the number of aircraft in high-density areas increases."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Two techniques-feedforward across a limiter and dynamic trapping-are described to show how the message carried by the weaker of two cochannel FM signals can be extracted with negligible distortion even when its amplitude is much smaller than that of the stronger signal. The development of these techniques marks the end of the stronger-signal capture limitation of FM systems and ushers in more efficient spectrum utilization, as well as new applications for frequency modulation."
"A real-time data transmission system was designed for and installed at the Atlantic Missile Range. This system is used to transmit the digital range, azimuth, and elevation coordinates from remotely located AN/FPS-16 radars into the Range Safety IBM 704 Computer at Cape Canaveral, Fla. The radar data is transmitted at a 10PPS rate and is used in the computation of a predicted impact point ten times a second within the computer. The predicted impact point is displayed on vertical plotting boards or use by the Range Safety Officer."
"In order to evaluate the potentialities of the scatter link and to minimize the financial risk involved in its implementation, examination of many combinations of path, sites, and system configurations is desirable. To assist this process, and to minimize the financial risks involved in uncertainties, a formal analytical procedure for the study of these circuits is desirable. The essential structure for such a procedure is outlined. A step-by-step process is involved, commencing with determination of an objective weighting factor for site evaluation. Data are presented for resolution of further steps dealing with median path loss, design accuracy, traffic loading, instantaneous fading, SNR, error rates, bandwidth and power. A performance index for path evaluation is used so that an optimum path-site combination may be selected. An index for comparison of various paths carrying different traffic loads with different reliabilities is suggested. Equations for the use of this data in specific design situations are also given."
"Telephone service between the United States and the Bahama Islands is now provided by means of high-frequency radio systems working in the 2-7 mc range. To handle properly the large volume of traffic during the peak winter season requires that more than the present nine circuits be provided. The lack of available frequencies in the 2-7 mc range, together with the comparatively poorer grade of facility obtained from these radio systems, makes it desirable to investigate other methods of providing telephone facilities. The fact that the present Miami-Havana tropospheric scatter system is performing so well, and that the distance from Miami to Nassau is the same as that to the Cuban terminal, made this type of system very attractive. At the time the Cuban system was being developed, klystron tubes capable of high outputs above 1000 mc were not available. For this reason, the Cuban system was designed to operate in the 700-900 mc range. Since that time tubes capable of high output levels at frequencies above 2000 mc have been developed, and it was considered desirable to operate at these higher frequencies rather than in the lower part of the UHF spectrum. Path loss tests were made over a nineweek period on the Florida-Nassau path using a frequency of 1970 mc. These tests are discussed and some comparisons are drawn between them and the path loss tests made to Cuba at 800 mc two years earlier. The Nassau tests indicated that a satisfactory 60-channel radio system could be provided through use of 10-kw transmitters and 30-foot parabolic antennas."
"The probability distribution of expected baseband noise during fading at the end of a multisection microwave radio system is an important consideration in the engineering of a long system. This paper gives measurements of fading on a single path, and derives an estimate of the probability distribution of expected noise due to fading on a particular 68-section system of which the single path is a typical part. A comparison is shown with a measured cumulative distribution curve of noise at baseband subsequently obtained on the long system under operating conditions. A numerical method of combining distribution curves was used in this case and the so-called \"breaking effect,\" due to deep fades, is included. This method is described in the Appendix. While this paper is directed specifically to a particular microwave system, the principles described can be applied equally well to others."
"Optimum frequencies for the varied needs of space vehicle communication can best be determined from the estimated system performance. Each of the contributing equipment and propagation factors over the range of the radio frequency spectrum affects the minimum tolerable signal-to-noise power ratio at the receiver. Over the range of the radio frequency spectrum, the behavior of the individual building blocks, as factors, will vary so as to exhibit a preponderance of either desirable or undesirable characteristics. Some of the newer technical developments that increase sensitivity to weak signals are evaluated for their potential increase in the distance of communication. Then the individual building blocks are married to each other in operating systems that determine the optimum portions of the frequency spectrum. The equipment factors are examined first, both as to their individual characteristics and their dependence on each other. Next, the propagation factors are examined for their effect over the range of the radio frequency spectrum in providing windows for communication through the earth's atmosphere, troposphere, and ionsphere to outer space. Some consideration is given to the effects of auroral displays, water vapor and gaseous absorption, Faraday rotation of polarization, and radio star scintillations. In addition, there is a discussion of noises arising from various causes. Measurements by radio astronomers demonstrate that equivalent noise temperature is a more useful measure of signal-to-noise ratio of receiver performance than the standard noise figure definition."
"Experiments were performed over the 188-mile Round Hill-Crawfords Hill path at 2290 mc to determine the feasibility of using angular diversity reception in a tropospheric scatter system. Using a 28-foot reflector, two beams were produced with two separate feed systems. The correlation of the signals received on one of the two beams with that received on the other was determined for various spacing of the beams, as well as for the azimuthal position of the antenna. These experiments show that angular diversity techniques can be effective depending on the proper choice of frequency, antenna size, and beam separation for paths in the neighborhood of 200 miles in length. A substantial \"diversity gain\" can be achieved even though partial correlation exists. These results also appear to be in good agreement with theoretical predictions for equal means and for the short periods of time applicable to obtaining reliable voice and high speed teletype communications."
"Waveforms useful in data transmission may be obtained by impulsing suitable linear networks, and these same networks may be used, in certain cases, as receiving matched filters. A filter design for certain low-pass waveforms is described, together with a procedure for realizing band-pass analogs of these low-pass waveforms. The latter avoid the use of modulators. Practical results are described."
"The Sebit-25 is a full duplex terminal equipment designed to transmit digital data at rates up to 2500 baud. The equipment has been completely transistorized and thoroughly evaluated under environmental conditions. In operation, binary information at 2500 baud is converted to minimum bandwidth and used to amplitude modulate a 2500cycle carrier. The resulting signal is converted to vestigial sideband prior to transmission, to further compress the bandwidth. At the receiver terminal, amplitude and delay compensation are provided to correct for distortion introduced by the transmission line. Synchronous sampling of the recovered signal by a slaved time standard reproduces the original binary information even though line distortion may be severe. Excellent performance results were obtained from a series of laboratory tests conducted on the Sebit-25 to determine error probability vs noise, level changes, delay distortion, carrier frequency shift, and line filter variations."
"Multipath propagation between radio terminals employing binary signalling elements produces a catastrophic rise in teleprinter error rate when the difference in path delay time becomes appreciable compared to the duration of a bit. A commonly used four-channel multiplex system has a bit length of 6.7 milliseconds and is thus seriously affected by differences in path delay greater than approximately 3 milliseconds. This paper describes a method of preventing the rise in errors when multipath propagation is present, by synchronously shifting the frequency of the transmitter and receiver following transmission of each bit. The receiver is thus responsive to the signalling element propagated by the shortest path and rejects the long path signals by filter selectivity. Spectrum occupancy and receiver bandwidth considerations which determine the magnitude and number of frequency changes are discussed, and a practical system is described. The general features of equipment used in testing this device are illustrated and discussed. The compatability of the anti-multipath equipment with existing equipment and the ability to reduce the error rate substantially, under conditions of ground-scatter multipath propagated by theFlayer, have been successfully demonstrated."
"This paper investigates past methods of improving the duty cycle of meteor scatter communications links in the presence of multipath distortion and suggests using a technique, for further improvement, which has proved useful at HF frequencies. It notes also, that use of this technique in conjunction with improved endof-message error detection techniques should yield an improved duty cycle for meteor burst communications."
"The inclusion of communication subsystems into an over-all systems plan has placed a challenge to deliver squarely on the Communication System Engineer. There are still several areas that require considerable work before they can be considered in line with individual subsystem requirements. One of these is data transmission, another is reliability. Systems such as the US Air Force 480-L or programs like the US Army's UNICOM will furnish him the over-all design criteria and common facilities. However, for some time to come, special problems of the type listed will continue to be solved concurrently with the development of the individual subsystem where the solutions are most urgently needed."
"The spiking and ringing of TV signals depend upon amplitude and delay characteristics associated with frequency cutoff of transmission. The effects of a variety of cutoff characteristics of both ideal and practical systems on rectangular and sine-squared pulses are illustrated by computed waveforms. The illustrations are arranged to show a) waveform of input pulse, b) amplitude and delay characteristics of transmission path, and c) waveform of output pulse. Included here is a discussion of inferences that can be drawn from certain output wavesforms on the reductions in transient response that are achieved by inband delay equalization and amplitude roll-off."
"There are many HF radio installations today that illustrate the need for an improved antenna switching technique. Today there is a growing requirement to connect rapidly any one of several 50-kw transmitters to any one of many antennas. An antenna switching system must be broad-band, convenient to use, fast, safe for operating personnel, and free of appreciable impedance discontinuities. This paper describes several components and techniques that solve the transmitter-antenna selection problem up to a 50-kw power level. The influence of switching techniques on RF transmission, impedance conversion and antennas are also discussed."
"Preliminary tests of facsimile transmission over a 910-mile path have been made at 40 mc by means of intermittent meteor ionization. Printed matter was scanned at a rate of 2 frames per second, with a resolution of 67 elements per inch. An all-electronic facsimile system recorded a picture when the received signal rose above a preset threshold. Tests were conducted employing bandwidths up to 110 kc with keying frequencies up to 73 kc, still maintaining the same optical resolution in the facsimile material. With the equipment used in the tests, it appeared that the maximum bit rate for acceptable facsimile was about 48,000 bits per second at 2 per cent duty cycle and about 86,000 bits per second at 1 percent duty cycle. Examples of signal recordings with received facsimile are shown. Preparations are being made to conduct similar tests, employing a higher information rate and wider bandwidth, on a frequency near 50 mc."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Communications between submerged submarines and surface craft require energy to be propagated through sea water. The only practical method for transmitting this energy is by acoustic means. Both FM and AM transmission systems have been used, but for long-range communication, a single-sideband suppressed-carrier transmission system is the only effective way of propagating sound energy. The requirements for the transmission system and diagrams of the circuitry are given."
"The selection of communications transmission media for any specified operation is neither a purely technical problem nor a purely economic one, but a complex combination of these two factors. To minimize work involved in evaluating all the possible choices, a first-order approximation method is provided to limit the number of specific transmission media which must be considered in any specific application. This method provides a numerical measure of the expected coimbination of technical and economic factors and is based on the author's empirically-derived experience with communications equipments and systems."
"The characteristics of a digital frequency modulation system are reviewed. The Gaussian frequency response is specified and optimum filters for transmitter and receiver (both predetection and postdetection) are developed. The relationship between peak deviation and system threshold is explored and an optimum deviation established. The location of the Gaussian filters in the system is discussed. It is shown that for best threshold performance, all receiver filtering should be predetection filtering and that optimum peak deviations under these conditions may correspond to the -4-db point of the IF filter. Practical details of transmitter and receiver design are discussed. These results have been applied to a 2000-mc communication equipment."
"This paper briefly summarizes one initial development approach for the 1962-1965 USAF Global Communications Systems. A brief review is given of some of the early communications systems work and the present design philosophy for the 600-voice bandwidth channel, 6000-mile trunk system is discussed. Specific requirements of the ground-based Air Force common-user system are listed and developments intended to provide much of the equipment for this time period are noted. This paper concludes that by adopting the system approach, the Air Force will be provided with a greatly increased communications capability at a total cost which differs little from today's annual expenditure."
"This paper defines the expected benefits to be derived from the use of low-noise receiver techniques when applied to tropospheric scatter systems in the 1000 to 2000-mc range. Calculations were made of the expected antenna noise temperatures for \"smooth\" and \"rough\" ground locations. These data, plus the known and anticipated performance of various low-noise techniques, permitted the calculation of increased sensitivity. The sensitivity improvement is then expressed in terms of increased range, decreased transmitter power, and decreased antenna size."
"The inherent capabilities of the tropospheric scatter circuit have emphasized the need for careful economic and technical evaluation. It is suggested that this should be carried out in two phases. The first is a broad study which determines the essential system parameters for which detailed analysis is necessary. The second phase is concerned with this detail. Outlines are given relevant to the principal factors associated with the first of these phases. These cover such areas as trunk circuit growth, required channel capacity at the end of the amortization period, revenue potential, optimum routing, choice of transmission method, and the optimum number of tandem tropospheric scatter links. The performance sacrifice for a minimal cost \"first in\" system and the manner in which design accuracy may be traded against probable propagation reliability are two of the problems discussed. Evaluation of the scatter link may be based on a performance index and data relevant to this are given. It is concluded that adequate analysis of the modern system capability requires a sophisticated engineering approach for which the present paper is a guide."
"With the advent of Russian and American artificial earth satellites, the use of such vehicles for communication purposes has been the subject of considerable study both by military and commercial organizations in the communications field. The purpose of this paper is to delineate the problems involved in space communication, the assumptions that must be made and the technical limitations which determine the communication system that should be used for a particular time frame. Some characteristics for an optimum system are stated. Some technical characteristics of the first successful satellite communication system are given."
"An operating facsimile system is described which is capable of transmitting black and white graphic information at the rate of 24 inches of copy feed per second. The system uses conventional line-by-line sequential scanning at the transmitter and a multistylus recorder with 100 lines per inch resolution at the receiver. The electrolytic recording medium employed is characterized by a relatively low internal impedance, which permits close spacing of the stylus electrodes and the use of direct-coupled transistors for the individual marking amplifiers. The high transmission speed results from the use of individual stylus electrodes for each elemental area along the scanning line and the holding of the video marking signal at each stylus for time intervals approximating the duration of a complete scanning line. The system described uses a 100-stylus block assembly, restricting the length of the scanning line to one inch. One thousand-stylus block assemblies have been made and these will permit reproduction of copy 10 inches wide."
"The problems of installation, operation and maintenance of a 165-mile, six-hop, private, intercity television relay system are reviewed. Careful planning of the path to be used is required. Equipment, its housing, power and frequency chosen for this service require careful evaluation. Emergency power supplies are required. Numerous modifications to commercial equipments were found necessary. The problems of sound diplexing through a multihop system proved difficult, but possible and worthwhile. Careful maintenance schedules and techniques developed for checking operation of each station proved their value. Communications for a multihop system becomes very important. Manpower required for a system of this magnitude proved to be greater than expected. Equipments designed and field checked for multihop installations can only be considered if truly dependable service is required and expected."
"This project was undertaken in 1955 to investigate the properties of the intermittent reception of VHF signals over long distances by meteoric propagation and their communication usefulness. To accomplish this, a complete duplex teletype system operating at about 50 mc was constructed, and results are reported from tests made over a 1277-km east-west path. Comparisons are made of burst transmissions of 10, 20, 40, and 80 times normal teletype speed and of varaitions in a number of control system parameters. For the system under test, the optimum speedup was 40X, which produced a daily average channel capacity of about 40 wpm with a character error rate of about 0.0035 (with the best control system settings). Higher speedup ratios are advocated for future systems. The most serious causes of outages in this type of system are atmospheric noise and sustained multipath distortion from competing modes such as E and auroral propagation."
"White Alice is an extensive communications network covering the entire state of Alaska. It provides essential defense communications as well as service for other government agencies and civilian commercial service. Both telephone and telegraph channels are provided with capacity for future growth. The Western Electric Company, as prime contractor for the USAF AMC, undertook the engineering, procurement, and installation of the electronic equipment as well as construction of some of the sites. The Bell Telephone Laboratories participated in the basic systems engineering and furnished consulting assistance in new scientific areas. New designs were made or supervised by the Laboratories. The White Alice system plan is based on the study by the Bell System of the communications needs of the area. Radio transmission was chosen for the majority of the routes. Wire and cable were considered either unreliable or impractical in the Alaskan terrain and climate. Where several hundred voice channels were required, microwave line-of-sight radio was used. For the majority of the links, tropospheric beyond-horizon transmission was used because of the economy and simplification of maintenance and logistic problems. The transmission objectives for the entire system were a median noise in the worst month of 38 dba and a maximum of 1 per cent outage in the worst month. These objectives were for 4000-mile circuits and were prorated to each link. The microwave portions of the system were engineered in the same way that has been used previously. Tropospheric beyondhorizon was a relatively new mode of radio transmission and the engineering procedures were less well defined. Propagation experience from a year-long test in Newfoundland, in addition to research by other groups, were used as the basis for the system engineering. These data include variation of signal strength from day to day and seasonally, the effective gain of the large antennas employed, the characteristics of the rapid fading typical of tropospheric propagation, and the effects of geographical profile and separation of the stations. Towards the completion of the project, comprehensive transmission tests were made of many of the links of the system to determine that the design objectives had been met. In particular, a 2400-mile circuit traversing much of the system was tested. The transmission stability and noise performance over a 30-day period was well within the limits set in the objectives. Teletype and voice performance were eminently satisfactory. White Alice has been operating continuously since it was turned over to the Air Force in March, 1958. Its reliability has been gratifying to the military and other agencies using it. It is certain to be a significant factor in the development of this last frontier."
"The increasing applications of numerical control of processes have created a need for new methods of synthesis of control equipment. The method presented is applicable to systems commanded by discretely valued inputs, and processes whose outputs may be similarly quantized. Periodic sampling is not required. The most suitable sampling is by transmission of only significant data, as the new value obtained when the data are changed by a given increment. In certain cases, transmission of data by this means can be used to increase channel capacity. When the data are so quantized, the error signal is constrained to a finite number of discrete values, each of which may be associated with an area in the phase plane. Within each such area, the trajectories of any process subject to phase plane representation are a family of parallel curves. Thus, analytic synthesis may be simplified in the case of certain nonlinear processes. Graphical design is facilitated without requiring deduction of a mathematical representation of the process. The method is illustrated by synthesis of several systems involving a simple linear process."
"Maximum effort control is a method of achieving deadbeat response for a step input to an undamped second order element (two poles on thej\\omegaaxis of the s-plane) which is preceded by a saturating amplifier. This method of control supplies the maximum available energy to the element being controlled, by driving the amplifier to saturation whenever an error is present. The realization of a maximum effort control system for an oscillatory element is found through a phase plane analysis of the equations of motion of the oscillatory element. The control system topology is also found by the analysis of a phasor representation of the transients introduced in the oscillatory element by the output of the saturating amplifier. The system was constructed to compare the experimental responses of step inputs and load disturbances, to the responses obtained from an idealized mathematical model of the system. The adaptability of the control system was tested by using it to control a damped oscillatory element. The system described will be an aid in the design of the control system which will give optimum response for random inputs to a undamped second order element which is preceded by a saturating amplifier. It also provides a method of control for systems in which it is impossible to damp poles near thej\\omegaaxis."
"One of the most challenging areas in the field of automatic control is the design of automatic control devices that 'learn' to improve their performamce based upon experience, i.e., that can adapt themselves to circumstances as they find them. The military and commercial implications of such devices are impressive, and interest in the two main areas of research in the field of control, the USA and the USSR, runs high. Unfortunately, though, both theory and construction of adaptive controllers are in their infancy, and some time may pass before they are commonplace. Nonetheless, development at this time of adequate theories of processes of this nature is essential. The purpose of our paper is to show how the functional equation technique of a new mathematical discipline, dynamic programming, can be used in the formulation and solution of a variety of optimization problems concerning the design of adaptive devices. Although, occasionally, a solution in closed form can be obtained, in general, numerical solution via the use of high-speed digital computers is contemplated. We discuss here the closely allied problems of formulating adaptive control processes in precise mathematical terms and of presenting feasible computational algoritbms for determining numerical solutioms. To illustrate the general concepts, consider a system which is governed by the inhomogeneous Van der Pol equation\\ddot{x} + \\mu(x^{2} - 1) \\dot{x} + x = r(t), 0 \\leq t \\leq T, wherer(t)is a random function whose statistical properties are only partially known to a feedback control device which seeks to keep the system near the unstable equilibrium statex = 0, \\dot{x} = 0. It proposes to do this by selecting the value of μ as a function of the state of the system at timet, and the timetitself. By observing the random processr(t), the controller may, with the passage of time, infer more and more concerning the statistical properties of the functionr(t)and thus may be expected to improve the quality of its control decisions. In this way the controller adapts itself to circumstances as it finds them. The process is thus an interesting example of adaptive control, and, conceivably, with some immediate applications. Lastly, some areas of this general domain requiring additional research are indicated."
"In many multi-stage decision processes we face the problem of dealing with random variables whoe distributions are initially imperfectly known, but which become known with increasing accuracy as the process continues. In this paper we shall show how Dynamic Programming may be used to treat a class of such problems, which are currently called adaptive processes. After discussing the general theory, we shall illustrate the techniques by a specific example. For this example we derive simple computational algorithms, which are typical of those obtained for the whole class of problems under consideration."
"This paper is concerned with obtaining the optimum system in the Weiner sense for the multipole system. Earlier literature has shown how to obtain the mean-square value of the error when the multipole system transfer function has been specified, but thus far no published work has shown how to solve the synthesis problem, in general, for this case. The principal reason that this problem has appeared to be impossible of analytic solution thus far for cross correlation between the inputs is based on the fact that the usual variational approach results in a set of untractable simultaneous integral equations involving many complicated cross products of the desired weighting functions and the variational functions. The synthesis problem for the system is first solved for the case in which there is no correlation between the inputs to the various terminals. The result for the optimum weighting functions in this case is presented in equation (24), and the resultant mean-squared value of the error is shown in equation (25). Following this, the far more complicated case of the synthesis problem when the inputs to all the various terminals are correlated is considered. In this case, a rather unique technique is utilized to avoid the difficulties inherent in the use of the usual variational techniques. Through the technique utilized in this paper, the usual set of untractable simultaneous integral equations is completely avoided, and instead a set of ordinary algebraic equations results. The set of equations for this case is shown in equation (64), and in matrix form in equation (65). The resultant solution for the optimum physically realizable transfer functions is shown in equation (77). It is also shown, as a check, that the solution for the case of correlated inputs reduces to the solution obtained for the case of uncorrelated inputs. The paper then concludes with an illustrative example for the more complicated case of correlated inputs. The possibilities of applications of the results of this paper to such fields as the guidance and control of astronautical vehicles, military fire control systems, bombing navigation systems, process control systems, automatic milling machines, air traffic control, nuclear reactor control, etc., are fairly evident."
"An attempt is made in the subject paper to evolve a basic philosophy for adaptive control systems. A method is described for determining the system impulse response from measurements of instantaneous system input and output. The impulse response is expanded in a Taylor series, to facilitate solution of the convolution integral. From a knowledge of the impulse response and the system error, the necessary correction to the system forcing function is determined, in a manner similar to that used for determination of the impulse response. The techniques developed are applied to two systems - one stable and one unstable. Curves of the results are presented."
"In many sampled-data systems the sampling interval T is \"small\" and the responser_{s}(t)closely approximates the responser(t)of the continuous system; one is then interested in evaluating the differencer_{s}(t) - r(t)for various values ofT. In this paper this difference will be given as a power series inTwhose coefficients can easily be determined in terms of the continuous response; if one wants to estimate the size ofTforr_{s}(t)to equalr(t)within a specified error, the first term of this expansion will give an adequate measure of the error and hence of the maximum permissibleT. Furthermore, since the resulting series converges rapidly, the expansion provides a simple method of evaluatingr_{s}(t)for a givenT. The method is applied to a feedback system with a sampler; the singularities of the p-rational system function that gives the actual response at the sampling points, are obtained by a displacement of the singularities of the continuous system function."
"The guidance and control accuracy of most aerodynamic and space vehicles is limited primarily by the noise disturbances which enter the guidance system. Present theory for the minimization of these noise effects does not take into account the forced kinematic time variations, such as is due to time-varying range, which occur in most guidance problems. Such time variations occur in interplanetary flight, satellite rendezvous, interception of missiles or bombers, and so forth. In this paper an analytical approach is presented for the optimization of systems which are forced both to be time varying and to operate with inputs contaminated with noise. Two objectives are the establishment of the theoretical optimum performance and a method of synthesizing the optimum control system. Effects of restrictions on the capability of the output element in addition to the noise and the forced time variation are considered. Although an exact analytical solution of the problem does not appear feasible, it is shown how approximate solutions utilizing time-varying control systems can be found. The method is illustrated by a hypothetical example of a homing missile attacking a bomber."
"The following paper describes a method of obtaining a polynomial characteristic function for a nonlinear static system. This function,F(x) = hx + mx^{2} + dx^{3}, is obtained by the application of a growing exponentialx = \\exp(t)to the input of the system and the filtering of the outputh \\exp(t) + m \\exp(2t) + d \\exp(3t), into its separate componentsh \\exp(t), m \\exp(2t), andd \\exp(3t). The values of these three components att = 0are the polynomial coefficientsh, m, anddrespectively. The identification of systems not exactly describable by a cubic gives rise to an error minimization problem; the technique described in this paper minimizes the weighted mean-square error, with a weighting function1/x. This method is compared with the more widely known sinusoidal analysis of nonlinear systems. Experimental results are given."
"This paper describes one very general approach to the design of adaptive control systems. The particular systems considered are process adaptive. The dynamic characteristics of the physical process are determined by the parameter tracking servo. The parameters thus determined are used to program the process' controller. The parameter tracking servo is a closed loop self-adjusting system. It consists of the following elements; 1) the physical process, 2) the learning model, 3) the adjusting mechanism. The learning model and the physical process are subjected to the same input signals. Their outputs are compared and the resultant error is fed to the adjusting mechanism where some function of this error is used to adjust the parameters of the learning model. The mechanism will continuously track the parameters of the physical process as they change with time in some unknown manner. The adjusting mechanism operates on an approximation to the method of steepest descent. These equations are derived for a first order process and the over-all systems is analyzed. The equations describing the tracking servo's operation are both non-linear and non-autonamous. System response as a function of input signal, gain, and error function are described analytically. Experimental results are included to demonstrate the validity of the analytic solutions."
"The bilinear transformationz = (1+w)/(1-w)converts az-transform functionG(z)of a sampled-data system into a new functionG(w), called thew-transform function, which is a rational function in variablew. This bilinear transformation maps the unit circle on thez- plane onto the imaginary axis of thew-plane. Consequently, it is now possible to readily draw log magnitude and phase diagrams against a frequency scale of the open-loopw-transform function of a sampled-data system by use of asymptotic techniques. Then, by use of a Nichols chart and correlation information available from continuous systems, it is possible to predict the approximate time domain performance. Design by modification of the open-loop transfer function can be made on the diagram in the same manner as employed for continuous systems on the Bode diagram. The resultingw-transform can be converted to its equivalent Laplace transform. The ratio of this transform function and the original Laplace transform function of the system's equipment gives the required compensator. Remote s-plane poles may have to be added to have the compensator physically realizable. Restricting the modifyingw-plane poles to lie between (0) and (-1) permits the compensator to be realizable as an RC network."
"Knowing the frequency response of a linear system, a method is presented for obtaining the time response of the system to an impulse, step, or ramp function input, without performing graphical integrations. The transient response is of the formf(t) = \\sum\\min{i} A_{i}G(\\omega_{i}t)where a different functionGis used to determine the response to each of the three types of input. Tables of the functionsG(x)are provided. An example is given to illustrate the simplicity and accuracy of this method. The results are compared with the exact time response."
"A phase plane technique, which takes advantage of convenient relationships in other planes (for example, displacement versus time) to effect graphical solutions for a non-linear time varying second order differential equation, is developed. Several special cases of this general second order equation are considered. The special case of most practical importance occurs when the differential equation is permitted to become piece-wise linear. To demonstrate the simplicity of the technique, for the piecewise linear case, an example involving saturation in an inertially damped position servomechanism is given."
"The space stabilizing capability of a servo controlled nonrotating inertial mass is analyzed and its drift rate performance compared with a high precision gyroscope. The results indicate that the nongyroscopic inertial reference and guidance system exceeds the performance of gyroscopic systems by several orders of magnitude. It is shown that a servo system materially contributes to the drift accuracy in the nongyroscopic system but not in the gyroscopic system. The navigation errors of the discussed scheme are directly proportional to the accelerometer errors and, therefore, are inherently smaller than in an equivalent gyroscopic system."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A number of investigations have been made in recent years about the transmission of Gaussian noise through nonlinear devices. In many cases, simplification or approximations were needed to make analytical solutions possible, and only zero-average Gaussian input signals were used when the results were applied to feedback control systems. This paper presents a different approach to the problem of noise transmission through non-linear single-valued elements. Basically, amplitudes removed by nonlinear saturation or deadzones are replaced by impulses in the amplitude distribution functions of the output signals, and the resulting first and second moments of the output distribution are computed to yield the average and rms value of the output signal. The solution may be found by graphical or mathematical integration, a visual representation of the phenomenon is obtained, and input signals with any distributions having non-zero average values may be considered. It is shown that there is an equivalent transmission function or describing function for the average value of the noise, another for the rms value, and that one is a function of the other. Examples of the functions are given and the simpler functions with zero-average values are compared to the results obtained by other methods. Finally, the application of the noise describing functions to feedback control systems is discussed. Theoretical results are compared with those obtained from analog simulations."
"A method for the determination of the characteristic pole locations in simple systems and components is discussed. The techniques introduced are extended to include more complex systems. The method consists of applying a signal to the system from a \"complex-zero-generator\" and then observing the system output response on an oscillograph. The system pole locations are determined when the system output goes through a null, which occurs when the zeros generated by the \"complex-zero-generator\" cancel the system poles. Tests on experimental systems indicate that the pole locations can be determined accurately and rapidly for a wide variety of systems. For testing purposes, a \"complex-zero-generator\" was built using two square-wave generators with a timed delay between them. This generator gives a signal which can contain complex zeros anywhere in the s-plane. This signal is then applied to a number of systems containing several different relative pole orientations. The system outputs, as photographed on the oscillograph, are studied to develop rules and procedures to determine the pole locations. The rules are then applied to a number of \"unknown\" systems in order to determine their applicability and a study is made of the errors and limitations involved. The results indicate that the method described is readily applicable to many systems and that, in many instances, the pole locations are determined more accurately and more rapidly than can be done through the use of a steady-state frequency analysis."
"Coherent optical systems, which utilize the wave nature of light and the consequent diffraction phenomena, may often be used to supplement or even replace complex electronic equipment. Such systems are particularly adapted to the performance of certain linear mathematical operations, particularly those of an integral transform nature such as spectral analysis, convolution, auto- and cross-correlation, and matched filtering. The two-dimensional nature of optical systems, contrasted with the inherent one-dimensional nature of an electronic channel, allows a great reduction in equipment complexity for certain classes of operations. This paper discusses the theory behind optical channels and filters as outlined above, and also illustrates simple multi-channel optical systems which can carry out representative operations."
"The powerful Laplace transform method for transient analysis by the partial fraction expansion technique has become quite popular in the fields of circuit and servo design. The theory of residues is usually used to find the coefficients of these fractions. The process is quite simple until second and higher order poles are included in the denominator. Previously, this has required a return to the calculus to find the additional coefficients required. This paper discloses a simple technique for finding these additional coefficients by algebraic processes. As a result both manual and machine computation can be performed more easily. The technique is described and its mathematical basis is rigorously proven."
"In order to satisfy stringent performance requirements in a dynamic process, a computer is incorporated as a central element in the feedback loop. The computer performs the dual task of identifying or measuring the process dynamics, and thence generating an appropriate command or actuating signal so as to satisfy the overall specifications. The family of singularity functions (steps, ramps, confluent parabolas) is used as the command signal. The process' dynamics are monitored and identified by the computer without recourse to interrupting test signals such as periodic impulses or white noise. The stored energy term inherent in many measurement problem in continuous processes is accounted for in a novel manner."
"An acceleration sensing instrument is essential to an automatic inertial navigation system. A velocity meter (VM) is a singly-integrating, acceleration-sensing instrument which has become important in providing precise, continuous velocity information for navigation of a wide variety of vehicles, from submarines to ballistic missiles. The increased autonavigator accuracy achievements and objectives have placed greater emphasis on instrument and associated instrument electronics error sources and their design to minimize these errors. This paper is primarily concerned with error sources which are affected by the design of the VM servo control amplifier. The environmental conditions, the pendulous nature of the VM, and the accuracy specifications are analyzed to provide requirements for synthesis of a VM servo control amplifier to achieve the desired system operation."
"A study is made on the optimization of the adjustment process in a self-optimizing system under rather general assumptions. The system is designed to keep a performance parameter m either at a prescribed value or at an unknown extremal value. A direct measurement on m is made and the adjustment is based on measured m only. Factors considered are (1) the finite measuring interval, (2) the necessity of looking ahead one interval, (3) the probable error in measurement, and (4) the changing situation. A set of weighting factors on present and past data, and the proper value of test bias for extremal seeking systems, are determined by a least square optimization process. The criterion of optimization is least reduction in m for peak seeking systems and least square error in m for systems with prescribed value of m. Two types of extremal seeking systems are studied. The alternate biasing systems are found to be superior in performance compared to the derivative sensing systems. This paper has been published by the AIEE as Paper No. CP 59-1296."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Part I contains an evaluation of a proposal by O. J. M. Smith on the control, by Wiener prediction and a non-linear combination of input and feedback signals, of a saturating element driving a primarily inertial load. This evaluation consists of simulation tests on a high-speed analog computer with actual continuous random Gaussian inputs. Results presented include: (1) Variation of the mean squared error with prediction time; (2) Optimum, system parameter dependence upon input signal level; (3) For fixed saturating level, mean squared error comparisons between the predictor-relay servo, and the \"McDonald\" and \"optimum relay\" servo; (4) Effects of different input spectral width and location; and (5) Data on a variation of the basic predictor-relay servo, where minimal-error parameters become relatively independent of input signal level. Part II is concerned with the error signal. The character of the error is discussed by examples from sinusoidal, transient, and random inputs. In an extension of a paper by K. Chuang and L. F. Kazda, the error probability density and distribution functions are found analytically, the results being valid for a class of compensated relay servos. The main result is that the large-amplitude error probability density is of a single-exponential form. Analog computer measurement of the error probability distribution function verifies the theory."
"Control system feedback elements are subject to statistical variation from their desired characteristics due to manufacturing tolerances. For most feedback elements, this variation takes the form of a random nonlinear function of the input to the element. Analysis of the effects of such feedback errors is exceedingly difficult because the control system affected must be described by a random nonlinear differential equation. It is proposed that this difficulty be surmounted by computer simulation. For purposes of simulation, a power spectrum is developed for the ensemble of feedback error functions. This power spectrum is then used to synthesize artificial nonlinearities in the simulation of the control system. By simulating groups of components with different statistical properties, production specifications can be generated based on parameters borrowed from noise theory such as power spectral density, noise bandwidth, rms error, etc. This development is followed by two experimental examples which illustrate the application of the method and display the concept of bandwidth as applied to a feedback nonlinearity. It is shown that, in some situations, linearizing approximations permit analytic determination of the effects of random feedback error. In other problems, the utilization of power spectra permits the normalization of computer results."
"This paper relates the pole-zero configuration of an error-sampled control system to the transient and steady-state response in a form amenable to straightforward synthesis procedures. The approximate transient response, as defined by percent overshoot and rise time, is specified for a generalized quadratic model in terms of readily discernable parameters. The steady-state error coefficients are developed in terms of the closed-loop poles and zeros. Several examples are used to illustrate the procedure and indicate certain practical conclusions."
"Need for adaptive control systems is explained, and results obtainable with two forms are discussed. Recognized approaches to achieving self-adaptive action are indicated; integrating and nonintegrating techniques are compared. One non-integrating form, the model-bistable system, is taken as an example, and analysis of its operation is developed. Its application to flight control is described, and its limitations in this and other applications are discussed. Effects of system performance requirements, including nature of input signals and disturbances, on the choice of adaptive control type are considered. Relations of mechanistic adaptive control systems to those found in the biological organism are discussed. This paper is to be published in the Proceedings of the First IFAC Moscow Congress by Butterworth Scientific Publications in 1960."
"The paper considers three separate special cases of functions for which the zeroes are determined graphically. First, the spring constant of a structural member is replaced by a complex number to allow for hysteresis losses during vibration. The corresponding characteristic function has non-conjugate zeroes which are useful in calculating frequency response, but have no meaning for transient response. Secondly, vibration acting along the input axis of a pendulous accelerometer causing displacement of the proof mass; an in-Phase cross vibration will cause a rectified torque. The real part of the compliance function is needed; knowing the zeroes is useful but not necessary in evaluating the integral over the frequency range by use of residues. Third, sampled-data systems have z transforms which often involve the sum of reciprocals of vectors. Finding real values of zeroes is simplified because only magnitudes need be considered; some graphical techniques can simplify the general vector problem. For each of the above problems alternate methods of calculation can be used; those presented are most apt to be of value to those engineers who are used to working with zeroes and poles. This paper will be published by the AIEE."
"This paper deals with further advances of the author's recent work on optimal design of control systems and Wiener filters. Specifically, we consider the problem of designing a system to control a plant when (1) not all state variables are measurable, (2) the measured state variables are contaminated with noise, and (3) there are random disturbances. An explicit design procedure (well adapted to digital computation) is presented. In addition, some fundamental new concepts (controllability, observability, etc.) are introduced. A general theory of control systems is outlined which answers many basic questions (what is controllable? why? how?) and gives a highly efficient method of computation. This paper is to be published in the Proceedings of the First IFAC Moscow Congress by Butterworth Scientific Publications in 1960."
"The hunt (self-oscillations) of a physical system may often be removed by the introduction of an appropriate stabilizing signal which changes the open loop gain of a closed loop system in a non-linear manner. The theory of stabilization developed in this paper explains experimental results reported by R. Oldenburger in 1957. With the aid of Fourier series the designer can determine the periodic signal to be inserted at one point in a loop to yield a desired stabilizing input to a nonlinear element in the loop. This is illustrated by sinusoidal and triangular inputs to a nonlinear element. An example where a limiter is the only nonlinearity, is employed to illustrate the theory. The input-output characteristics of non-linear elements are in practice always modified by the presence of extra signals such as \"noise.\" Further, nonlinearities are always present in physical systems. The effect of extra signals on nonlinearities and system performance is thus of concern in the general study of physical systems, regardless of whether or not the problem of stability is involved. The results of this paper for the problem of stability extend readily to the problem of system performance for arbitrary disturbances. This paper is to be published in the Proceedings of the First IFAC Moscow Congress by Butterworth Scientific Publications, in 1960."
"The nervous control of heart rate in man was studied through dynamic analysis of experimental results and computer simulation. The heart rate changes caused by respiration were found to be accurately analyzable and predictable, as related by a fifth-order nonlinear differential equation which proved to have specific physiological meaning. The nonlinear characteristics of the equations are interesting in that they also show how neural controls can produce certain dynamic characteristics not normally encountered in control engineering practice. This paper is to be published in the Proceedings of the First IFAC Moscow Congress by Butterworth Scientific Publications in 1960."
"A root-locus method for the analysis of nonlinear servomechanisms is developed, using the complex convolution theorem of the Laplace transformation. The nonlinear servomechanisms that can be treated by this method are systems that contain nonlinear elements whose input-output relationships can be expressed in the form of power series. With some approximation this includes systems containing ideal relays and linear gains with dead zone. Transfer functions are developed for odd-power and odd-root nonlinear elements. These transfer functions are valid only for sinusoidal inputs and are functions of the frequency as well as the Laplace Transform variable s. The method is illustrated by a root-locus analysis on a system that includes an ideal relay. Comparison with existing methods using the Kochenburger describing function and with transient solutions shows that the new method is reasonably accurate. The usual root-locus synthesis techniques may be applied to improve nonlinear system performance."
"The problem of sensing and controlling the angular orientation of a space vehicle is discussed. Optical, radio, and inertial methods of angle-sensing are described, and application of control torques by reaction jets, flywheels, radiation pressure, and gravitational gradient are compared. Requirements for angular accuracy likely to be imposed by maneuvering, performing measurements for navigation, making scientific measurements, radio communication, and solar cell orientation are described. Attitude control requirements and techniques for earth satellites and deep-space probes are compared. This discussion will not be published."
"The rapid expansion of components and techniques for information conversion during recent years has provided control systems engineers with new tools for developing new kinds of systems. Nine basic functional tools have been identified which describe the complete information conversion process - sensing, converting, storing, communicating, computing, programming, regulating, actuating, and presenting. Information conversion is forming an important part of broader automatic control systems and an example is cited from the electric utility field."
"There are sampled-data systems of interest in which the sampling intervals are random variables. An example is a track-while-scan radar with a non-ideal blip scan ratio. In the statistical design of such systems it may be necessary to compute the spectral density of a random signal at the output of a random sampler. If the sampling intervals are independent, this spectral density may be determined from a complex convolution integral which, in many cases of practical interest, is easily evaluated in closed form by the method of residues. Consider a sampler which ideally operates periodically but actually misses samples with some probability. For this case the following result is obtained: the spectral density at the output of the non-ideal sampler is unchanged by replacing the non-ideal sampler by an ideal (periodic) sampler and adding to its output uncorrelated white noise of specified spectral density. When this result is used in the statistical design of a track-while-scan extrapolator it is found that the miss probability profoundly affects the system design. Neglect of this factor may, in fact, result in systems which are unstable in the mean square. This paper is to be published in the Proceedings of the First IFAC Moscow Congress by Butterworth Scientific Publications in 1960."
"Development of the basic theory of D-decomposition by a general polynomial expression, the characteristic function of a linear lumped parameter automatic control system, is followed by account of: the basic theory of parametric stability; unity-feedback variable-gain analysis, with subsequent generalization to numeric and frequency-dependent feedback; transient response determination; and sampled-data system analysis, as effected by D-decomposition theory. Application of theory in practice is illustrated by numerous illustrative examples."
"This paper is concerned with the optimal computer control of a linear dynamic element of plant. It is required that the outputs of the plant exactly equal a set of desired outputs at the uniformly spaced time instants,t, t_{N}, t_{2N}, .... The system is optimal in the sense that a quadratic form of the control effort, which is proportional to the control energy, is a minimum. The optimal system is shown to be a linear, periodically time-varying feedback system, in which the generation of the control input is related to the solution of the adjoint equations of the plant. The paper concludes with a discussion of the effects of uncontrolled inputs and certain problems encountered in making the system adapt to slow parameter variations. This paper is to be published in the Proceedings of the First IFAC Moscow Congress by Butterworth Scientific Publications in 1960."
"This paper presents a flow-graph approach for analyzing multiloop sampled-data systems. Two techniques for finding the sampled output are examined. These are, first, construction of a \"sampled\" signal flow graph from the original system; second, a general gain formula which can be directly applied to the original system. The theorems necessary to establish the formula are rigorously proved. The first technique allows two possible modes of solution. The sampled output can be found directly from the sampled flow graph by the use of Mason's formula, or in case of a more complicated multi-loop system, the problem of enumerating nontouching feedback loops can be simplified by the use of topological matrices. Techniques developed in the paper are also applied to the solution of multirate systems. This paper has been published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers as ASME Paper No. 59-NAC-1."
"A dynamic system is given with a transfer function of third order (one real pole, two complex poles, and two zeroes). It is desired to design a contactor control which yields a near-optimum follow-up of a given input. For zero-seeking systems and for step-inputs an \"optimum\" control problem can be defined easily; however, a general solution of the optimum problem is not yet available. The known particular cases yield switching surfaces in the phase space which depend on the particular pole and zero locations (parameter set). The realization of such surfaces is rather difficult and usually demands digital computer equipment. The author and her associates suggest in this paper switching functions which can be realized easily and which give good response for different parameter sets. Particular attention is given to the occurrence of discontinuities in linear switching functions and their advantages and disadvantages; to different types of chatter, which may or may not improve the system performance; to discontinuities in the switching function which can be avoided by feeding the output of the contactor back into the switching function. Analog computer tests show the performance of systems with linear switching functions. The choice of the coefficients in this linear switching function is discussed. The influence of imperfections of the control system on its performance is investigated. Comparison to linear feedback control systems are included. This paper is to be published in the Proceedings of the First IFAC Moscow Congress by Butterworth Scientific Publications in 1960."
"Gas servos are considered from a feedback analysis standpoint with emphasis on systems such as would be most suitable for missile application. Linearized equations are presented for the case where the piston is operating off-center. The basic stability and response problems are investigated and some of the characteristics of acceleration, pressure, and transient pressure feedback are considered. The use of a thin plate orifice for compensation use is considered and a quasi-linear analysis is carried out in order to obtain a better feel for this type of operation. A criterion for the presence and severity of a jump resonance is derived and applied to certain gas servo feedback configurations. Limiting elsewhere in the system is investigated as a means by which the jump resonance caused by saturation of the valve might be avoided."
"Mathematical models are often needed for design and justification of computer control systems prior to installation. They may also become an integral part of the control system itself, providing a means for rapid and periodic determination of the best operating conditions. Using fundamental physical and chemical principles, relationships are written to describe typical process operations. Both steady-state and dynamic models are considered. By means of \"constants\" which will be modified by the control computer, the models can accommodate slow and minor changes arising from variables whose effects are poorly understood. Some applications of the models are mentioned. This paper is to be published in the Proceedings of the First IFAC Moscow Congress by Butterworth Scientific Publications in 1960."
"The subject of this paper is the analysis of periodically switched electric networks. A method for determining a sampled-data system which is equivalent to a given member of a class of periodically switched electric networks is first presented. A technique for determining the response of the system to a given input function is then discussed in detail. Next it is shown that it is possible to identify a time-invariant electric network with the same response to a step-function input as the envelope of the response of the switched network exhibits when the input to the switched network is a suddenly applied constant-amplitude sinusoid at the switching frequency. This \"equivalent\" d-c network can be utilized to advantage in the design of carrier systems in which periodically switched electric networks are employed as compensators. Examples are then presented to illustrate the application of the theory, and the results obtained by this method are compared with those obtained by a different method, proposed earlier. Finally it is pointed out that the response calculated by the use of the method presented in this paper is theoretically exact and that the technique can be extended to encompass a wide class of periodically switched linear systems."
"Many feedback control systems employ amplifiers that incidently convert energy from one physical form to another. Amplification is accomplished by variation of a parameter that changes such conversion properties. Among a number of examples are variable-displacement hydraulic pumps and \"Ward-Leonard\" systems of motor control. Conventional linear response analyses usually are based upon the assumption of an \"ideal\" input energy source. Actual practice displays many instances when such an assumption is not valid. The load imposed on the controlled output may have a significant effect on the input power source. The method presented here takes such non-ideal characteristics into account. This paper is to be published in the Proceedings of the First IFAC Moscow Congress by Butterworth Scientific Publications in 1960."
"Problems and possible methods of controlling the path of a vehicle in free space are discussed. Difficulties in determining and relaying the vehicle's position are given particular attention. There are no plans for publishing this discussion."
"The human environment in space is controlled within fairly narrow limits, the range between the limits representing man's ability to adjust without serious strain. Broadly defined, environment includes the makeup of the gaseous artificial atmosphere, gas temperature, movement and humidity, the thermal radiation level, the mechanical force field, and the level of ionizing radiation. From the control standpoint, there is not much to be done about g-forces and radiation. The gaseous atmosphere and the thermal environment offer more opportunity to the control engineer. Biologically speaking, the controllable environment serves two major body functions, respiration and thermoregulation. In the isolated artificial atmosphere of a space cabin the environmental variables which affect these functions are closely interwoven. For example, water vapor pressure and gas movement are involved in both respiratory balance and heat balance. Various approaches to control of the human environment in space will be described. Simple automatic controls in present systems will be discussed. More complex control needs will be suggested for the future systems designed to carry man ever farther into space. No plans have been made to publish this discussion."
"The reasons for using feedback are reviewed. The beneficial aspects of feedback are quantitatively expressed in sensitivity functions and noise transmission functions. The physical constraints on the controlled process (or plant) determine the maximum number of independent functions realizable. Any configuration with the same number of degrees of freedom may be used. With this approach the study of conditional feedback, model feedback, combined positive and negative feedback, etc. is of secondary interest. The benefits of feedback are paid for in gain-bandwidth of active elements over and above what is needed to physically do the job. The minimum price that must be paid is independent of configuration. The system with two degrees of freedom is studied in detail. Two methods are presented for the precise design of a system that will be as insensitive as may be desired to large parameter variations. One method uses root-locus techniques and is suitable for systems with a small number of dominant poles and zeros. The second method is based on frequency response and can be used for systems of any complexity. Numerical examples are given."
"This paper describes the systems analysis and design of an automatic temperature control system in the world's largest fluid dynamics testing complex consuming 470 megawatts of drive power. The plant treated in this paper can be described mathematically as a 110th order system having 130 feedback loops. Facility component characteristics are mostly non-linear, with prominent distributed parameters and ten long, variable fluid transport delay times. Important simplifications introduced to make the analysis and design work tractable include: (a) Application of the mathematical analogy between the theory of electric transmission lines and gas flow to validate the separation of temperature and pressure variations, (b) Selection of control frequency to permit lumped-parameter representation, (c) Design and construction of special computer devices and circuitry to simulate transport delays from 0.2 to 141 seconds in length. These valid simplifications reduce the plant to a 14th order system having about 50 feedback loops. The simplified system is simulated on an analog computer for economical synthesis and design of the controllers."
"I - Continuous-Time Systems - The \"second method of Lyapunov is the most general approach currently in the theory of stability of dynamic systems. After a rigorous exposition of the fundamental concepts of this theory, applications are made to (a) stability of linear stationary, linear nonstationary, and nonlinear systems; (b) estimation of transient behavior; (c) control-system optimization; (d) design of relay servos. The discussion is essentially self-contained, with emphasis on the thorough development of the principal ideas and mathematical tools. Only systems governed by differential equations are treated here. Systems governed by difference equations are the subject of a companion paper. II - Discrete-Time Systems-The second method of Lyapunov is applied to the study of discrete-time (sampled-data) systems. With minor variations, the discussion parallels that of the companion paper on continuous-time systems. Theorems are stated in full but motivation, proofs, example, and so on, are given only when they differ materially from their counterparts in the continuous-time case. Part I has been published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers as Paper No. 59-NAC-2. Part II has been published by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers as Paper No. 59-NAC-3."
"An attitude control system consisting of motor-driven inertial wheels in conjunction with an over-riding mass ejection system is proposed for use in space vehicles. Control by mass ejection is usedto compensate for initial distrubances during separation from the booster, and for removal of unwanted momentum stored in the wheels. The use of reaction wheels permits fine, damped attitude control. A laboratory model of a single-axis control system was constructed for experimentation and evaluation. The choice of a suitable platform configuration, selection of a prime mover for the inertial wheel, and the philosophy in the design of the electronics and pneumatics are discussed. Emphasis was placed upon minimization of weight and power consumption. System evaluation includes a discussion of efficiencies, reliability, and torque-speed-power relationships. Sources of disturbances, methods of sensing, and general equations of motion are presented in the Appendix."
"The basic theory of bi-stable oscillating loop control is first sumaarized using standard describing function concepts. The effective transfer characteristic of the hi-stable switch is defined in terms of the ratio of both amplitude and frequency of the control error signal to amplitude and frequency of the loop oscillation signal. The effect of variation in loop oscillation amplitude with low frequency control error amplitude is considered. The relationship between switch gain at control frequencies and switch gain at oscillation frequency is noted. The inherent insensitivity of the bistable oscillating system to variations in linear loop parameters is discussed. The effect of variation in loop gain of the bi-stable system is compared with the effect of equal variations in a similar linear system. The possibility of bi-stable loop oscillation at more than one frequency is considered. The conditions are defined which insure oscillation at the intended oscillation frequency. Analog simulation tests used to verify these loop oscillation criteria are outlined."
"This paper describes a graphical method for synthesizing a compensation network where the fixed poles and zeros of the open-loop system are given and the closed-loop poles and zeros are independently specified. The resulting network is general in that it may have both real and complex poles and zeros. The method does not rely on cancellation techniques to determine the compensation network which is often simpler than one which would have resulted from the use of such techniques. In contrast to the Bode and Nyquist methods, wherein phase and gain requirements over a frequency band are used to generate compensation networks, this approach uses requirements at points in the s-plane, such as those imposed by desired transient response, to construct a solution of the problem. The graphical procedure is iterative. In many cases, convergence is rapid, and several techniques are suggested throughout the paper to further increase the speed of solution."
"This discussion is an introduction to the second method of Lyapunov in determining the stability of linear and nonlinear control systems. Although almost universally referred to in Russia and although it is becoming an increasingly important concept, this method has not been used in English-speaking countries because of the lack of suitable translations. This introduction to the method will not be published because it is essentially a condensation and introduction of the authors' paper given in Session IV."
"This report considers the general problem of obtaining the optimum multipole system when the inputs to the system are stationary random processes. The system under investigation is linear and time invariant. The input to each terminal shall consist of signal and noise. The synthesis procedure is carried out under the basis that a fixed plant must be compensated in order to perform certain desired tasks. The design criterion employed is the minimum mean square error between actual outputs and ideal outputs of the system. A set of integral equations shall be obtained, which can be converted into algebraic equations through transformation. By solving these equations and using the method of undetermined coefficients, the transfer functions of the compensation can be uniquely determined."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Henry J. Riblet (A'45-M'55-F'58) was born on July 21, 1913, in Calgary, Can. He graduated from Yale University, New Haven, Corm., with the B.S. degree in mathematics in 1935. He received the M.A. and the Ph.D. degrees in mathematics from Yale in 1937 and 1939, respectively."
"It seems that in the general desire to acknowledge and recognize the contributions of science to our present society, there is a tendency to glamorize the basic sciences at the expense of their engineering counterparts. It is almost as if a descending hierarchy has been established between theory at one end and practice at the other. Perhaps this is not the case, but articles on the danger of neglecting pure research in the interest of its applications and lamenting the distribution of research and development funds are a familiar sight, while it is seldom noted that only rarely can pure research proceed faster than the engineering technology on which it rests. Such articles foster the idea that research is reserved to pure science while the design engineer is relegated to the role of skillful computer."
"This report on advances in microwave theory and techniques is based on papers appearing in American journals. Advances in the realm of sources and detectors, transmission lines, circuits and circuit elements, components, and measurements are reported. No attempt is made to cover advances in the realm of antennas and wave propagation."
"The characteristic impedances of a coaxial type line in which the inner conductor is a flat strip and of a triplate strip line have been calculated."
"A member of Philips Research Laboratory, Eindhoven, Holland, has used a new method to calculate the radiation impedance of a linear antenna in a waveguide of rectangular cross-section, viz., Schwingers' variational principle. This new application, even when based on only a two-term Fourier expansion of the current distribution, gives better results than a sinusoidal current distribution."
"A number of papers were presented in the fields of microwave art from companies and universities. In this article, short abstracts of some selected papers will be mentioned."
"The theory and operating characteristics of a new type of high performance reflective switch is given. It utilizes the cut-off phenomenon in transversely-magnetized ferrites. The insertion loss of the device is 0.4 db and over 60 db within the 8.8 to 9.5 kmc band when the ferrite is demagnetized and magnetized respectively. The reflection coefficient of the switch in the \"off\" state is more than 90 per cent over this same band. In contrast to most other ferrite devices, it is of the reflective rather than the absorptive type. Furthermore, it has the unique property that its operating bandwidth is determined mainly by the magnitude of the applied field. Possible applications of the device in antenna switching and as a tunable cutoff filter will be discussed."
"The paper describes some results of a theoretical and experimental investigation of the propagation behavior of circular cylindrical wave guides containing longitudinally magnetized ferrite rods. As long as no concentration of the RF-magnetic field in the ferrite occurs, theoretical expressions for the propagation constants can be given by applying first-order perturbation method. Faraday rotation measurements have been made between 5000 and 7600-mcs using commercially available ferrites. Reasonable agreement between theoretical and experimental results has been found for a thin axial ferrite rod in an air-filled guide in both cases of saturated and nonsaturated ferrites. Energy concentration in the ferrite determines the propagation behavior in the partially filled waveguide. This effect can be enhanced by surrounding the ferrite rod with a dielectric tube. For a given rod diameter and permittivity of the tube there is an optimum outer diameter of the tube for which the Faraday rotation becomes maximum."
"In conventional microwave impedance measuring the measured ratio of maximum to minimum detector signal level is ideally equal to the voltage standing-wave ratio (VSWR) of the termination. In this paper, it is shown how radically types of response are obtainable in which the observed ratio may approximately equal the square of the VSWR or may be magnified any desired amount. Theory k given enabling accurate ments by interesting techniques. Accuracies of 0.1 per cent in VSWR to 2.0 have been achieved using magnitied response techniques."
"A rigorous analysis of the microwave retlectometer is presented for what is believed to be the first time. By means of this analysis, the correct adjustment of auxiliary tuners is described, and the errors resulting from incorrect adjustments are treated in a quantitative manner. It is shown how the reflectometer technique may be further simplified while preserving the accuracy of measurement. A convenient method of adjusting the auxiliary tuners is described, sources of error are discussed, and an example is given of the calculation of error limits."
"A microwave receiver using a single-circuit backward-wave amplifier as a combination radio-frequency ampliier and homodyne local oscillator is described. The amplitler tube is operated at a value of beam current just above that required to maintain oscillation. It is shown that in this way, the high gain and narrow bandwidth of the single-circuit backward-wave amplifier may be utilized in an electronically tunable microwave receiver. The resultant sensitivity is 10 to 15 db worse than that obtainable from a good superheterodyne. The loss in sensitivity is due entirely to the high noise figure of the backward-wave amplifier, which can theoretically be reduced to a value comparable with that of a supereterodyne. The advantages of the receiver are its simplicity and its lack of image diffculties. Rejection of off-frequency signals is such that they are attenuated by at least 50 db."
"In this paper, an operator T0 is introduced for the analysis of the periodically distributed parametric amplifier. The operator is the product of a diagonal matrix expressing the pumping phase relation and the T matrix of the basic section of the amplifier. The eigenvectors of T0 are called the \"modes\" of the amplifier. The orthogonality properties of the modes are proved in a similar way as for the conventional mode theory. Finally, an expression is derived for the power gain of the amplfier as an application of the theory."
"This paper describes the O-guide and X-guide which are proposed by the authors and are the advanced surface waveguides composed of thin dielectric sheets. The results of an analysis of the TE fundamental mode in the O-guide are described, and the theoretical characteristics as a transmission line are discussed. The practical guides are suitable especially for the SHF region and guides can be obtained which have lower attenuation constants than coaxial lines, G-lines, and rectangular waveguides."
"H. A. Wheeler and H. L. Bachman, authors of \"Evacuated Waveguide Filter for Suppressing Spurious Transmission from High-Power S-Band Radar,\" which appeared on pages 154-162 of the January, 1959 issue of these Transactions, have submitted the following correction."
"Relations are investigated between the transmission characteristics of a helix waveguide and its surface impedance in regions where any simple approximate formulas are not available because of the magnitude of the surface impedance. The numericaf calculations show that, for any given value of the surface impedance and the angular mode index, there exist an infinite number of different modes which are distinguishable from each other by different values of the radial propagation content. Selecting a mode with minimum attenuation for each given surface impedance, we can draw the equiattenuation lines, connecting these points of equal attenuation on the complex surface impedance plane. At some point on the complex surface impedance plane, a maximum value of the minimum attenuation is found. For the TM/sub 0/ mode supported by a helix waveguide 50 mm in diameter, used at a frequency of 50 kmc, this minimax value of the attenuation constant is about 8 neper per meter, and the corresponding value of the surface impedance is about 57.6-j28.8 ohms. The attenuation constants of all the TM/sub 0/ modes corresponding to this optimum value of the surface impedance cannot be smaller than this minimax value. The same kind of calculations are also performed for the two lowest hybrid modes. Physical structures giving the best value of the surface impedance are also suggested."
"This paper considers the problem of a taper connecting two uniform waveguides of arbitrary dimensions and propagating a single mode; an approximate expression for the reflection coefficient is derived. The special case of a linear double taper in rectangular waveguide is examined in detail for propagation in the TE/sub 10/ mode. Approximate expressions for the reflection coefficient and voltage standing wave ratio as functions of the taper dimensions and free space wavelength are derived and experimentally verified."
"This paper deals with the problem of a nonuniform waveguide joining two uniform ones and the spurious modes generated by it when a pure mode is incident in one of the uniform waveguides. The generalised telegraphist's equations are stated and transformed into a set of differential equations for the amplitudes of the forward and backward traveling waves. The expressions for the coupling coefficients between the various modes are given and analysed."
"An L-band diplexing filter has been constructed with an estimated power-carrying capacity of S megw at atmospheric pressure (for a power safety factor of nearly four to one) and an insertion loss of less than 0.1 db. The filter consists of two hybrid junctions and two high pass waveguide sections, which are arranged as in a balanced duplexer, with the \"TR-tubes\" replaced by the high-pass sections. In the upper frequency band, the input VSWR is better than 1.10 over a seven and one-half per cent bandwidth, but deteriorates only slightly over a larger bandwidth. In the lower frequency band, the input VSWR is better than 1.32 over a 13 per cent bandwidth. The separation interval between these two bands is approximately 10 per cent between their nearest frequencies."
"In the application of microwave refractometers, the sampling cavity consists of a right circular cylinder whose parallel faces are partially opened to permit air flow. The ambient air is aspirated through the cavity, and the instrument measures a weighted average of the index of the air contained at any time within the cavity."
"This paper summarizes a Ph.D. dissertation on the design and analysis of open-ended microwave cavities. The study was motivated by the need for a cavity with a high measure of quality, Q, through which an unobstructed flow of gases or particulate matter could be obtained. Used in collection with the Crain refractometer, instantaneous measurements of the refractive index of the material in the cavity can be made. Measurements utilizing his technique but with other types of cavities have previously been made in order to study the dielectric properties of smoke and other aerosols."
"The transverse electric field distribution in dielectric and ferrite loaded waveguides has been measured by several investigators. Knowledge of the actual field distribution within the waveguide is needed in the design of field displacement isolators, phase-shifters, and similar microwave devices. In making such measurements, care must be taken to choose lengths of samples of ferrites or dielectrics sufficiently long enough so that the distribution in one transverse plane will he the same (except for an attenuation effect) as in another transverse plane."
"A problem frequently arising in microwave electronics is the feeding of pulsed power from a self-excited source into a high-Q resonant load. A typical example is the one of feeding power from a pulsed magnetron into a high-Q microwave cavity such as that used in a linear accelerator. In the past, it has been customary to use a stabilizing load in a series tee system which results in approximately half the magnetron power being fed into the high-Q cavity."
"For many microwave transmission systems, it is possible to make use of highconductivity \"image planes\" as ground planes or as shields. Strip transmission lines, image plane lines, and dielectric image lines are examples of such systems."
"The conventional treatment of the Zobel filter starts with symmetrical T or pi sections of pure reactance and then develops the iterative measures of the network; the fixed points and the propagation constant. It is shown that the propagation constant is either pure real (stop band) or pure imaginary (pass band). These iterative measures can be worked out for the general T section. Fig. 1 shows the nomenclature used for the symmetrical T section and the general two port."
"A few years ago, the balun was studied at our laboratory and it is important to know the characteristic impedances of the line. There are several papers concerning this characteristic impedance. The cross section of the transmission lines is shown in Fig. 1 and the characteristic impedances are calculated in these papers. Last year, a paper was published in the IRE Trans. on Microwave Thoery and Technique on this problem, using similar methods described below. I wish to describe my approach and show a disparity."
"The performances of nonreciprocal microwave devices are as temperature dependent as the ferromagnetic materials used to produce them. Hence, the operating characteristics vary markedly with incident power level and ambient temperature. In order to compensate for these temperature changes, special cooling techniques are frequently utilized. Since those are often inconvenient, devices are more usually designed to operate at a much broader frequency range than the specifications demand resulting in deterioration of performance in the specified band. In some cases, ferrites may be especially prepared to have a nearly constant saturation magnetization for range of temperature, as illustrated in Fig. 1. Whereas both of these ferrites have the same saturation magnetization at room temperature, changing the temperature to 100°C causes a 25 per cent change in the 4muM/sub s/ of the commercially available ferrite, but only a 7 per cent variation in the especially designed one. Tailoring ferrites to the application is much too difficult to represent a solution to the problem."
"During the design of equipment for applications in radio astronomy, various tests were performed on argon plasma noise source discharge tubes, with emphasis on the Bendix 6358/TD-12 which is Model A148 of Johnson and DeRemer. In view of the wide use of these tubes as secondary standards of microwave noise power, a brief summary of the results obtained will be given. A description of the test equipment and experimental procedures used would be repetitive of much that has been reported by Sees and Hughes, but is available from the writer if desired."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A major portion of the operation of the PGMTT rests each year upon several editors, committee chairmen and other individuals. While it has not been customary to honor them with any special recognition, we wish to take this opportunity to identify them to express appreciation for their generous contribution of time and effort."
"Wilbur L. Pritchard (A'45-M'48-SM'52) was born in New York, N.Y., on May 31, 1923. He received the B.E.E. degree in 1943 from the College of the City of New York. From 1948 to 1951 he was gaged in part-time graduate study at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology."
"During recent years self-examination by many thinking Americans has evolved extensive criticism of our educational system. On the one hand, just after the war the criticism was engendered largely by the apparent political naivete of some engineers and scientists. This unawareness on their part contributed to several unfortunate incidents and made the public sensitive to the need for political and cultural sophistication on the part of scientists. Our professional schools were criticized freely for providing curricula so narrowly technical that they did not produce wholly educated people. This criticism was just. No one disputes the need for broad education in scientific and engineering schools."
"Plans for the 1958 PGMTT National Symposium started during August, 1957 with a decision by the San Francisco Chapter of the PGMTT to try to hold the Symposium on the West Coast."
"Under certain restrictive conditions it appears that ferrimagnetically coupled electron spins are capable of coupling energy from a transient magnetic field and giving it up in the form of microwave radiation. This paper analyzes the behavior of the uniform precession of motion in ferromagnetic insulators under the influence of transient magnetic fields of changing amplitude and direction. The expected radiation power and efficiency are calculated for such an oscillator employing yttrium iron garnet."
"Deterioration of ferrite devices caused by both high power thermal and nonlinear effects are discussed. It is shown that thermal effects can be described, at least qualitatively, by a simple exponential equation. A theoretical maximum power capacity is derived in terms of ferrite configuration parameters. The results of experiments with high peak powers at both S-band and X-band frequencies are compared with predictions of Suhl's theory on nonlinear, high power effects in ferrites. Steady-state and transient effects are considered. It is shown that high power effects may be eliminated in ferrite devices by properly choosing ferrite properties and geometry."
"With proper choice of shape, it is possible to minimize the frequency shift of ferromagnetic resonance in microwave ferrite components operating over a wide range of ambient temperatures. Calculations have been made for minimum resonance frequency shift change in saturation moment. Curves relating the resonance frequency shift as a function of saturation magnetization are plotted for several ferrite geometries. Design curves are presented for reducing dependence of resonance frequency on temperature."
"Microwave ferrites that exhibit a nonlinear RF absorption as a function of RF power level can be utillzed in the construction of a passive microwave device which will allow small RF signals to be transmitted with very little attenuation but which will attenuate large RF signals considerably. Such a device tends to \"limit\" the amplitude of the microwave energy passing through the device and is therefore called a ferrite microwave limiter. One application of the ferrite limiter is in the protection of crystal detectors in pulsed radar sets. However, when a rectangular pulse of X-band RF energy is transmitted through the limiter, the output waveform is no longer rectangular but consists of a leading edge spike of 0.1-µsec duration followed by a plateau of highly attenuated RF energy. At the present time the leading edge spike is the major obstacle in the successful use of the ferrite microwave limiter as a TR cell in the protection of crystal detectors. Experimental techniques used to improve the performance of the limiter are presented, and the performance characteristics of an X-band ferrite microwave limiter are shown."
"An analysis is presented of partially dielectric loaded strip transmission line from the point of view of ferrite applications. It is shown that the microwave magnetic field is elliptically polarized both at the dielectric surface and within the dielectric. The degree of elliptical polarization is expressed analytically as a function of the dielectric constant, the degree of dielectric loading, and the frequency. For specific values of dielectric constant and loading, a high degree of circularity may be made to exist at the dielectric surface over extremely broad frequency bands. Experimental data are presented which are in accord with the theoretical predictions."
"An extremely compact, low-loss, ferrite phase shifter has been developed for the 200 to 800-mc region. It consists of a folded stripline structure approximately 61/2 inches long and less than 1 inch square in cross section. The device requires a longitudinal magnetic field of sufficient intensity to place the operating region above resonance. For field swings of about 900 oersteds (from 430 to 1250 oersteds at 400 mc), 360° change in phase shift can be obtained with about 1 db of loss. The phase shifter is reciprocal and shows identical low-power and high-power characteristics up to at least 10-kw peak. Some additional data are included on the operation of the phase shifter down to 10 mc and up to 2000 mc."
"A ferrite serrodyne has been developed to produce a frequency translation of X-band microwave signals over ranges from zero to 50 kc. The device consists of an efficient longitudinal field ferrite phase shifter and an associated electronic driver for generating the modulating sawtooth. Transmission or reflection operation is possible. A conversion loss of 1 to 2 db is obtained. Suppression of spurious output spectral components is 33 db or more for a 10-kc translation and 21 db for a 50-kc translation."
"It has been shown that the rotation of the plane of polarization of a wave propagating in a magnetized unbounded ferrite medium should be independent of frequency. However this is not the case when a ferrite rod of small diameter is placed within a waveguide. For example, if a ferrite rod one-quarter inch in diameter in a fifteen-sixteenth inch diameter circular waveguide is used, the rotation will change by a factor of four to one over the frequency band from 8000 to 10,000 mc. This variation in rotation is substantially due to the waveguide characteristics, and can be minimized by lowering the cutoff frequency of the waveguide. Various methods of lowering the cutoff of circular waveguide are compared. Data on the broadbanding of the rotation by dielectric loading and also by the use of quadruply-ridged circular waveguide is shown. An experimental study showing the effect of the ridge width and height on the cutoff of the circular waveguide and the frequency dependence of the rotation is discussed."
"Two of the few fruitful approaches to the low millimeter and submillimeter wave generation problem appear to be frequency multiplication by means of nonlinear phenomena and frequency conversion by parametric systems. Current work on frequency multiplication using relativistic megavolt beams, crystal diodes, field emitters, ferrites, etc., is reviewed. A brief account of present efforts to extend conventional tubes below wavelengths of 3 mm is presented. Waveguide components used at 1 to 2 mm are described."
"It is estimated that at least 50 watts of peak power at 2-mm wavelength has been generated from 4-mm excitation by harmonic generation in ferrites. This experiment is similar to the frequency doubling previously reported from 9 to 18 kmc, except for some differences in optimum geometry and material. A wide range of ferrites has been used, as well as garnets and permanent magnet type materials. In carrying out this experiment it has been necessary to develop components such as a 4-mm high-power isolator, a calorimeter for measurement of the 4-mm and 2-mm power, and numerous 2-mm waveguide components."
"The attenuation characteristics of several dielectric image lines have been calculated for the frequency range extending from 24 to 100 kmc and have been checked experimentally at 35 and 70 kmc. To obtain low attenuation at these high frequencies, dielectric materials with little loss and small size of cross section are required, while low values of the dielectric constant are also desirable. The effects of the size and shape of the dielectric cross section and of low dielectric constant are treated separately. To find proper materials with low dielectric constants several new foam plastics were investigated. Three types were found suitable for image line use, and in fact, these plastics have such good electrical and physical properties that they should be useful in many microwave applications. A qualitative measure of field extent is given for several image lines at 35 or 70 kmc, and various image lines and associated components are discussed. A new type of image line, called the tape line, is described."
"The interaction of microwaves with gas-discharge plasmas provides a valuable tool for studying the fundamentals of gas-discharge phenomena and methods of controlling and switching microwave power. A summary of our present state of knowledge in this field is presented by using as particular examples the interaction of high density and low density gas-discharge plasmas in S-band resonant cavities, both in the presence and absence of dc magnetic fields."
"A new type of gas discharge switch is described, It is electronically controllable, broadband, and capable of rapidly switching high power pulsed microwaves from either of two waveguide input ports to a single waveguide output port, or from one waveguide input port to either of two waveguide output ports. The electronic control is achieved by turning on or off a magnetic field set for cyclotron resonance. An approximate analysis is given of the operation of the active element of the switch and the results are compared with experiment. An analysis of the effects of frequency scaling indicates that, with the exception of the magnetic flux density which increases with increasing frequency, the switch parameters either improve or remain unchanged in going to higher frequencies. Two different switch configurations are investigated, one a Y-junction switch for operation at S band and the other a balanced top-wall hybrid coupler switch for operation at K/sub u/ band. Their electrical characteristics are described."
"The maser and the parametric amplider form a new class of microwave amplifiers which can exploit the properties of bound electrons in a solid. These amplifiers have several common characteristics, among them being their very low-noise performance. This paper reviews the method of operation of these amplifiers, discusses the performance achieved and achievable by the various versions, and points up some of the difficulties involved in effectively utilizing the extremely low-noise figures obtainable. A bibliography is included in which an attempt has been made to include all published papers on masers and parametric amplifiers."
"Chromium doped potassium cobalticyanide has been utilized in the design and construction of a solid-state maser operating in the frequency range of 300 to 500 mc. The pumping frequency is fixed at 5400 mc and the magnetic field required is in the vicinity of 80 gauss. The design utilizes a cavity mode at the pumping frequency and a tuned loop at the operating frequency, thus avoiding the design complications associated with the large size of UHF cavities. System measurements using a directional coupler for isolation yield noise temperatures of approximately 70 degrees Kelvin at bandwidths in the 50 kc range."
"An instrument in which a simple microwave triode oscillator is stabilized by reference to a natural atomic resonance---the field-independent hyperfine resonance of sodium---is described. Light from a sodium lamp is transmitted through an absorption cell containing sodium vapor and argon, which is placed in a resonant cavity. This light produces population differences between the two quantum levels which are involved in the desired atomic resonance and provides a means of detecting resonance, The cavity is excited by an external microwave triode oscillator which is frequency modulated to a small degree at 60 cycles. When the exciting oscillator frequency coincides with the center of the atomic resonance line, the signal observed by a photocell will be a modulation of the transmitted light at 120 cycles and higher even-order harmonics. Any deviation from line center will introduce a 60-cycle component whose phase and magnitude may be detected to produce an error signal to retune the oscillator in the usual servo loop manner. Theory predicts that an accuracy of possibly one part in 10/sup 10/ can be achieved by systems using sodium and suitable local oscillators. It is evident also that such systems can be engineered into quite small packages, making possible many new applications of microwave oscillators stabilized to high order."
"It is shown how a transmission-line circuit can be analyzed by a digital computer. Transformation matrices are used and broken down into equations which are applicable to a computer. \"Synthesis by computer\" involves feeding in an approximate design and programming the computer to search for better parameters until the performance matches the specification. Examples are given to indicate time and cost of both analysis and synthesis procedures on an IBM Type 650 digital computer. The synthesis of a stagger-tuned three-cavity filter is described."
"The deliberate use of two or more propagating modes in a multimode waveguide, and a knowledge of associated control elements, has assumed renewed importance, particularly for millimeter wavelength applications. This paper presents a resonance measurement technique for the precise evaluation of the equivalent network for a lossless shunt discontinuity coupling two nondegenerate modes in a multimode waveguide. The discontinuity structure is placed into a cavity closed by adjustable plungers, and the data consists of those plunger positions which render the cavity resonant in the two modes of interest. This multipoint data is then transformed to permit an analysis of the two-port network in the discontinuity plane by conventional techniques. Computations and experimental results obtained at S band illustrative of the procedure are presented for shunt discontinuities coupling the E/sub 01/ and H/sub 01/ modes in circular waveguide. The accuracy achieved is comparable to that obtained in single mode precision measurements."
"The measurement of harmonic and spurious signals in waveguide systems is complicated by the fact that one must usually deal with a multimodal measurement. Since the energy may propagate in any mode consistent with the frequency and waveguide geometry, the measurement system used must discriminate between these different modes. A simple and direct approach to this problem is through the use of \"mode couplers\" which couple selectively to any desired mode. Theoretical and practical details for mode couplers for the first five modes in rectangular waveguide are presented, as well as the application and limitations of this measurement technique."
"A measurement technique is described that can be used to determine quantitatively the power levels of the higher order modes propagating in a straight, Iossless, rectangular waveguide. The technique employs a number of small calibrated electric probes which are fied on the broad and narrow walls of the waveguide measurement section to sample the electric fields within. The method used to calibrate these probes is briefly discussed, and information on accuracy and limitations of the probe technique is presented. Some measurement results on the power levels in the modes of the second and third harmonic frequencies in the outputs of high power S-band magnetrons and klystrons are presented. The multiple-probe technique has reduced the time required to take measurements at a given frequency to about one-half hour. An automatic computer has been programmed to perform all of the required mathematical operations and has reduced the computation time to less than one-half hour for each measurement frequency."
"Several multicoupler techniques are described for operating twenty or more UHF transmitters and receivers simultaneously with a single localized antenna system. The types of multi-couplers considered include the simple parallel-connected filter type and several distributed-line types, in which the individual branches are separately tuned. The filters used are of the symmetrical, narrow-band, direct-coupled resonator type, designed to obtain minimum center-frequency insertion loss for a given insertion loss in the adjacent channels. Design formulas are given for these filters, and characteristic response shapes are presented. The extra-channel susceptance, which is the principal factor limiting the number of channels obtainable in a single multicoupler, is discussed in terms of the input coupling coefficient, the resonator parameters, and the lengths of the connecting lines."
"A new wide-band strip-line balun that uses a pair of dual coupled-strip-line band-pass filters is described. It can operate over bandwidths up to about 8:1 in the frequency range of about 100 to 10,000 mc. Design data and theoretical performance curves for typical wide-band baluns of this type are presented. The measured performance of an experimental balun operating over a 3:1 frequency range centered at 3000 mc is compared with the theoretical performance, and the effects of discontinuities and dissymmetries in the experimental balun are discussed."
"The center fin in trough waveguide can be modified in a periodic fashion to alter the propagation characteristics of the guide. Two such periodic modifications, one an array of circular holes and the second a periodic array of teeth, have been measured fairly extensively and analyzed theoretically. These configurations are useful in connection with antenna scanning or waveguide filter applications. The array of holes produces only a mild slowing of the propagating wave, but the toothed structure, which may alternatively be described as a series of flat strips extending beyond the edge of the tin, can cause the propagating wave to vary from a very slow to a very fast wave. The periodic structures are theoretically treated by two methods, a transverse resonance procedure and a periodic cell approach. These theoretical results agree very well with each other and with the measured data."
"The serrated, or periodically slotted ridge produces a periodic loading which retards the phase velocity of the wave in a waveguide. Such structures may be used to provide a variable index of refraction for microwave lenses and as elements in microwave filters. Two approaches are presented in this paper giving the frequency dependence of the index of refraction. One is based on equivalent circuit representations which are qualitatively valid for the effect of the loading. Circuit parameters which determine the shape of the index of refraction curve are calculated from the experimental data. The other approach providing a purely analytic expression of the index of refraction is derived by a field matching method. Calculations show good agreement with test data."
"The need for high-power filters is reviewed briefly, and various design approaches are discussed. The major portion of the paper treats the power-handling capacity of multiple-resonator filters using inductive windows or posts as coupling elements. A formula is derived that gives the relative power capacity of a waveguide filter of this type in terms of the bandwidth and cavity dimensions, and the element values of the low-pass prototype filter. By means of this formula it is shown quantitatively how high-power ratings may be achieved through the use of enlarged cavities. Methods for eliminating spurious filter responses and of reducing the reflected energy are discussed."
"A one-megawatt magnetron, used in a search radar, tunes over the S band of 3.1 to 3.5 kmc, and simultaneously causes interference in the band of 3.7 to 4.0 kmc by occasional oscillation in spurious modes. For insertion in the antenna line of this radar, a band-pass filter has been designed to provide over 120 db attenuation in the interference band. It is a wave filter with M-derived terminations for impedance matching and with three sections including traps resonant in the stop band, for high attenuation, all made of nine resonant irises spaced 1/4 wavelength in a waveguide. Each filter is sealed by pressure windows and evacuated to handle the high-power pulses. Two such filters are connected in parallel between 3-db directional couplers to make a nonreflecting assembly."
"Low-pass and band-pass filter characteristics can be obtained in waveguide by the use of an arrangement of a waveguide hybrid junction and lengths of cutoff waveguide. Low-pass filters are obtained by terminating a conjugate pair of ports of the hybrid in identical cutoff waveguide sections through short lengths of phase correcting lines. Band-pass characteristics can be realized by introducing a third cutoff waveguide having a lower cutoff frequency at the input port of the hybrid. These filters have a matched input at all frequencies above the lower end of the pass band and are characterized by low-pass band insertion loss, steep skirt selectivity, and moderate rejection band attenuation. The power handling capabilities of the structure exceed those possible with conventional microwave filter circuits, and the design is particularly well suited for use at frequencies above 10 kmc. Simple techniques are available for constructing filters of this type having variable cutoff frequencies and variable bandwidths."
"Strip-transmission-line directional filters have been found extremely useful since they serve as a combination multiplexer and filter assembly. A step by step procedure has been developed for the quarter-wave coupled filter design having a prescribed band-width, skirt selectivity, and passband ripple tolerance for narrow band multiplexing applications. An experimental study of the strip-transmission-line resonator as an integral part of the directional filter utilizing direct and quarter-wave coupling between the half-wave resonants has been carried out; and an efficient method of tuning a filter is described. This study has included not only problems of insertion loss caused by dissipation but also effects on filter characteristics caused by variations in environmental temperature."
"A broad-band high average power S-band load isolator has been developed by using a dielectric loaded waveguide and a composite ferrite."
"In a paper by Matsumaru formulas of the input reflection coefficients of the linearly and sinusoidally E-plane tapered waveguides are given. Excellent agreements between the theoretical and experimental results have been found in both cases. In this note we wish to add some analytical remarks."
"In analysis of propagation through magnetized ferrites it is usually assumed that the applied magnetostatic field is along one of the axes of the microwave carrier. It may be of interest to analyze the more general case; one in which the applied magnetostatic field is at an angle arbitrary to the axes of the microwave carrier."
"Two papers published recently in these Transactions have described calorimetric techniques for the measurement of microwave power at the milliwatt level which are free from the limitations inherent in existing methods using resistance-type milliwatt-meters."
"Stanford University was the location of the 1958 PGMTT National Symposium, held on May 5-7. Four hundred and thirty-seven registrants attended the six technical sessions held in Cubberley Auditorium."
"On June 1-3, at Harvard University, Cambridge, MA, USA, the IRE Professional Group on Microwave Theory and Techniques will hold the 1959 PGMTT National Symposium in cooperation with the Division of Applied Physics, Harvard University. Prospective authors are requested to submit papers in the areas related to: Microwave Components; Microwave Physics; Microwave Systems."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Seymour B. Cohn (S'41-A'44-M'46-SM'51-F'59) was born in Stamford, Conn., on October 21, 1920. After receiving the B. E. degree in electrical engineering from Yale University, New Haven, Conn., in 1942, he worked for the Radio Research Laboratory of Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass., specializing in UHF and microwave receivers, circuits, and filters. In 1944 he represented the Radio Research Laboratory as a technical observer with the U. S. Air Force in the Mediterranean Theater of Operations. Following the disbanding of the Radio Research Laboratory at the end of 1945, he enrolled as a graduate student at Harvard University and was awarded the M.S. degree in communication engineering in 1946, and the Ph.D. degree in engineering science and applied physics in 1948."
"Any of us whose work requires thinking will realize that the brain was not really meant for scientific effort. As to whether it is better suited to its more basic functions of guiding the individual is another fascinating subject that I will not consider here. Instead, I choose to pinpoint and attack a major inadequacy of the mind that interferes with our professional labors, and hope thereby, in some degree, to assist progress in our field."
"The reflection coefficient Gamma of a pyramidally tapered rectangular waveguide is derived by assuming that the taper impedance is proportional to the height and guide wavelength and inversely proportional to the width of the taper cross section. It is a shown that the loci of Gamma, plotted in the K plane as a function of taper length for some conventional tapers, do not pass through the center of the chart at multiples of a half-guide wavelength as for an exponential line, but instead they converge almost concentrically. The frequency characteristic of the pyramidally tapered waveguide is compared with other types of tapers. Typical 7-kmc experimental results for several tapers differing in length are presented."
"A directional filter is a completely matched four-port which exhibits a directional and a filter-like frequency characteristic. This paper explores the properties of N-directional filters connected in cascade through sections of transmission lines. Analysis shows that if a directional filter admits the equivalent circuit representation offered here, its transfer functions are functions of only one parameter, a susceptance function. When the directional filters are cascaded in a certain way, the overall transfer functions have the same form as before except that the susceptance function is now the sum of the susceptance functions of the component filters. The last property is an important one. Given a transfer function expressed in terms of a susceptance function, the network designer can expand the susceptance in partial fraction and realize the transfer function using directional filters in cascade, each being characterized by a much simpler susceptance."
"A theoretical analysis of wave propagation in a parallel plane waveguide partially filled with a dielectric is performed. This transmission line is a symmetrical three-region structure consisting of two infinite parallel conducting planes with a dielectric slab of rectangular cross section between and contacting each of the planes. It has been found that TEM and TM modes cannot propagate on this structure. This investigation is concerned with TE modes, although hybrid modes can also propagate on this line. The lowest order TE mode, which is the dominant mode, has no cutoff and hence is inherently suited to extremely wide bandwidth operation. Equations have been presented for the field components, guide wavelength, cutoff criteria, power handling capabilities, wall losses, and dielectric losses as a function of the operating wavelength, waveguide dimensions, and material constants. In the case of the dominant mode, design curves covering a large range of wavelengths, dimensions, and dielectric constants are presented. For a loosely bound wave, the losses are comparable or less than those of conventional rectangular waveguide and the power handling capacity is an order of magnitude greater."
"The object of this research is to investigate the feasibility of adapting the conventional pulsed radar technique for closerange back-scattering measurements for obstacles of arbitrary shape and small scattering cross sections. The time-separation or microwave-pulse method described in this paper differs essentially from all previously used laboratory methods in that the scattered field does not mix with the incident field at the detector and is separated from it in time. The essential experimental arrangement of this method is similar to that of the CW magic-T method except that a source generating very short pulses is used instead of CW. Preliminary experimental data for thin circular metallic disks show that the pulse method is a feasible one, since the measured results are in close agreement with the theoretical values. Accurate back-scattering measurements for obstacles of arbitrary shape and small scattering cross sections should be obtainable by this method provided a short microwave pulse of high power level is available."
"Network representations for a class of obstacles in waveguide regions when the diffraction problem is of a vector type can be obtained by the use of E- and H-type modes. The special properties of these modes are discussed and highlighted by an example involving the network representation of a periodic strip grating in free space for oblique incidence. Transformations relating the different networks based on various modal representations in rectangular coordinate systems are also discussed."
"The advantages of microwave interferometers for wavelength and other measurements at millimeter wavelengths are indicated, and a microwave Fabry-Perot interferometer discussed in detail. Analogous to the cavity resonator, this requires reflectors of high reflectivity, small absorption, and adequate size. Stacked dielectric plates, and stacked planar or rod gratings are shown to be suitable forms of reflectors, and equations for the reflectivity, optimum spacing, and bandwidth of such structures are derived. A series of stacked metal plates with regularly spaced holes represents a good design of reflector for very small wavelengths. Fringes and wave-length measurements at 8-mm wavelength are given for one design of interferometer, these being accurate to 1 in 10/sup 4/ without any diffraction correction. For larger apertures and reflectors in terms of the wavelength, errors due to diffraction will decrease."
"Hysteresis and thermal drifts can prevent accurate calibration of ferrite phase shifters. To provide a precise setting of phase in response to a control signal a servo system has been developed. This system utilizes a control frequency to determine uniquely the phase shift in a ferrite element. The desired phase shift is then a function only of control frequency and line length. Performance data are given for various operating conditions of the control system."
"Quarter-wave transformers are frequently required in microwave and UHF systems. An exact design procedure is known but involves lengthy calculations. Faced with the design of many such transformers, the calculations were programmed on an IBM 704 digital computer. The speed of computation is such that several hundred designs for 2, 3, and 4 section transformers were systematically computed in a few minutes. The results are reproduced here in tables, which should permit the calculation of most cases of practical interest by interpolation."
"A method for synthesizing symmetrical waveguide circulators by adjusting the eigenvalues of the scattering matrix is described. This procedure is particularly useful for the design of very compact circulators in the form of waveguide junctions containing ferrite obstacles. Permissible structural symmetries for a circulator are listed, and a standard form for the scattering matrix of a symmetrical circulator is defined. The synthesis procedure is then described in detail, stating the conditions to be imposed on the scattering matrix eigenvalues, and an expression is obtained for the changes in the eigenvalues due to the placing of anisotropic material within the junction. By applying the theory to Allen's 4-port turnstile circulator, it is shown that the use of a matched turnstile junction and a reflectionless Faraday rotator is not essential. The theory is also applied to the design of novel 3- and 4-port circulators, and two 6-port circulators, one of which may be used as a 5-position waveguide switch, are described. Some experimental results are presented for a compact 3-port circulator in the form of an H-plane Y junction, in 1 inch by 1/2 inch waveguide, containing a ferrite post obstacle. This circulator, which operates with a bias field of approximately 25 oersted, has a useful bandwidth of 3 per cent. Greater bandwidths would be expected in a Stripline or a fin-line version of this device."
"Delay distortion is one of the most important characteristics in the frequency-modulated supermultichannel microwave repeater. With regard to receiving crystal mixers, the cause, shape, vanishing condition, etc., of delay distortion are analyzed, and the experiments show good agreement with the results of this analysis. To eliminate this delay distortion, the electrical length between the crystal and the image suppression filter must be determined so that the image frequency impedance may not be infinite in a desired frequency band, or the intermediate frequency load impedance must be fixed at a certain definite value."
"This paper presents a theoretical and experimental study of the excitation of the lowest order TM surface wave on an infinite dielectric cylinder. The source is a circular filament of magnetic current within the dielectric rod. The integral solution for the field is evaluated as a contour integral by applying Cauchy's theorem. The far zone radiation field is obtained by means of a saddle pointintegration. Curves are presented which show excitation efficiency as a function of k/sub 0/a, the normalized circumferential length of the filament. A filament 0.83 wavelength in diameter will launch the TM mode with an efficiency of 95 per cent. A narrow annular slot in a large metal sheet was used to approximate the magnetic current filament and efficiency was measured using Deschamps' method for a two-port junction. The experimental measurements verify the theoretical analysis. In addition, it was found that the slot launching efficiency was essentially independent of the ground plane dimensions."
"An atomic beam apparatus suitable for a millimeter wave generator is theoretically discussed. The beam consists of atoms having a net magnetic moment. The upper and lower Zeeman levels of the atomic beam in a magnetic field are spatially separated by an inhomogeneous magnetic field. The upper state atoms enter a cavity where transitions occur at a frequency determined by a static magnetic field. The resonant frequency of the cavity is set at the transition frequency. The positive feedback of the cavity allows operation as an oscillator. Some of the more important parameters for oscillator operation are evaluated.The upper frequency limit is determined primarily by the resonant structure design."
"A relationship between low-power isolation and small-signal, low-frequency diode resistance is reported. A study of ambient heating indicates that with increasing temperature the diode characteristics tend to approach the line characteristic of the above relationship. Observed switching speeds of 1.5 to 3.0 mµs are reported. A theory is presented which agrees with the switching time data and predicts microwave switching times as low as 0.2 to 0.3 mµs. High speed switching is discussed with reference to significant parameters, e.g., hole storage, internal heating, and pulse reverse diode characteristics."
"A chart is presented which relates the real and imaginary components of the impedanceat any position along a transmission line to the magnitude and location of the standing wave. In the present chart the ordinate is R/Z/sub 0/ plotted logarithmically and the abscissa is a function of X/R. Thus a change in the reference impedance becomes a simple vertical translation of any point. An auxiliary chart permits the direct determination of the length and impedance of transmission line required to match a given impedance."
"The direction of the net power flow associated with a propagating mode of an arbitrary passive disspationless anisotropic uniform waveguide may be opposite to its direction of (phase) propagation. It is shown that when a point source is introduced into a waveguide in which this is the case, such propagating modes contribute to the fields excited by this source only in that direction for which their power flow is directed away from the source. In addition it is shown that the nonpropagating modes contribute to the total field only in that direction in which they decay with increasing distance away from the source so that the far fields are given by a superposition of propagating modes only. The proof given makes use of the known properties of the frequency dependence of the physical parameters of any linear passive system in which the causality restriction is satisfied."
"Negative conductance amplifiers are usually operated with a circulator in order to achieve greater gain-bandwidth products and stable operation. Typical circulators differ from ideal circulators in that the forward loss between ports is not zero, and the reverse isolation between ports is not intinite. The main effects of nonintinite isolation are shown to be a modified gain-bandwidth product and a assumed to exist between ports 3 and 2. No other dechange in output admittance of the circulator output port. These effects result principally from the finite isolation between the output and amplifier ports. The main effect of incidental dissipation has previously been shown to be an increase in system noise figure. This paper considers only the effects caused by noninfinite isolation. A model of a lossless three-port circulator with noninfinite isolation is set up, and a negative conductance amplifier is considered to be limited to ensure a positive output conductance at the output port of the circulator (that is, the combination of negative conductance amplifier and nonideal circulator is assumed to be open-circuit stable). Subject to this assumption, the combination of negative conductance amplifier and nonideal circulator is then analyzed for its output admittance, available power gain, and effective input noise temperature."
"There is considerable current interest in the production of guided electromagnetic waves having phase velocities equal to or less than the speed of light in free space (for example, in the design of traveling-wave slot antennas and of devices involving electron traveling-wave interactions). Such phase velocities can be obtained conveniently by partially loading a rectangular waveguide with dielectric material. In antenna work particularly, because of the field configurations, it is usually desirable to place the dielectric interface so that it is parallel to the broad face of the waveguide, as indicated in Fig. 1. The calculation of phase velocities in such a waveguide has been considered in the literature, and there is published information on some of the cutoff frequencies, but (since in this case there is no convenient relationship between the cutoff frequencies and the propagation constants) there has been little detailed information available concerning the phase velocities as a function of waveguide proportions and dielectric material. Thus a compilation has been made of such information for the dominant (hybrid) mode."
"One type of microwave phase shifter consists of two quarter-wave plates between which is placed a half-wave plate whose principal axis is rotatable. The phase shift introduced is directly proportional to the angular displacement of the principal axis of the half-wave plate. Continuous rotation of the principal axis causes continuous advancement or retardation of the phase of the signal traversing the phase shifter. This causes a frequency shift of the signal and the device can thus be used as a single-sideband modulator."
"A requirement arose for a low-power microwave transmitter, the output power of which could be controlled over 40 db with a reset accuracy of 0.5 db for single frequency operation."
"In designing RF transmission line components it is often necessary to place a short-circuited quarter-wavelength stub in parallel with the line or an open-circuited quarter-wavelength stub in series with the line. The stub can be broadbanded by merely changing the characteristic impedance of the line on either side of the stub for a distance of one quarter wavelength."
"Ozaki's comments have drawn my attention to the fact that there is a significant difference between \"The Synthesis Theorem\" given in my paper and the restatement of it that is given and proven in the Appendix."
"In the following we will exhibit vector formulations for the equations determining the different components of the electromagnetic field in a source-free uniform waveguide. All results will be stated without proof. The derivations are given elsewhere. The vector formulations given below are applicable to uniform waveguides containing anisotropic media restricted only by the requirement that the permittivity (epsilon) and permeability (µ) dyadics be independent of the axial coordinate z. For uniform waveguides (with the indicated restriction on mu and epsilon) we consider solutions to the Maxwell equations which display characteristic time and z dependence of the form exp i(/sub K/z-wt)."
"At a single frequency, a two-port can be represented by the scattering matrix."
"The Faraday effect in a straight rectangular waveguide, a section of which is completely filled with a ferrite material subjected to an axial magnetic field, has been described by Du Pré, who states that, owing to the presence of a medium of dielectric constant and permeability greater than those of air, modes other than the usual TE/sub 10/ mode may be propagated in the ferrite-filled section. In particular, the TE/sub 01/ mode whose electric vector is perpendicular to the narrow dimension of the guide may be supported. If, owing to Faraday rotation, the TE/sub 10/ mode is converted to the TE/sub 01/, mode, propagation cannot take place beyond the ferrite-filled section. Experimentally this was confirmed by Du Pré who observed minimum of transmitted power for 90 degree rotation. Similar results were obtained in this laboratory with a straight rectangular guide loaded with a cylindrical ferrite specimen the ends of which were tapered for matching purposes as shown in Fig. 1(a). For a given axial magnetic field the reduction of transmitted power was Iargest with the specimen in the center of the guide, but, as might have been expected, no nonreciprocal effects were observed. A twisted rectangular waveguide section, however, loaded with the same specimen, exhibited nonreciprocal characteristics. In the experiment the sampIe was mounted centrally midway between the flanges of a 90 degree commercial 0.4x 0.9 inch twist and an axial magnetic field was applied as shown in Fig. 1(b)."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The 1959 PGMTT National Symposium sponsored by the IRE Professional Group on Microwave Theory and Techniques, in cooperation with the Division of Applied Physics, Harvard University, will be held at Paine Hall, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass., June 1-3, 1959."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A. Gardner Fox (A'40-SM'45-F'56) was born in Syracuse, N. Y. on November 22, 1912. He received the B.S. and M.S. degrees in electrical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, in 1935."
"Man's sophisticated art of communications has been built upon his ability to generate and detect coherent electromagnetic waves. This art has been pushed to higher and ever higher frequencies, until now important experimental work is being carried on in the neighborhood of one millimeter wavelength."
"The paper gives an account of the various aspects of the design and manufacture of microwave structures. The presentation of design information such as dimensions and tolerances is first discussed. Machining and other fabrication processes are then examined. Several methods of metal casting and associated techniques are described and the electrodeposition of waveguide components studied. Such final stages as inspection procedure, protective finishing and packaging are considered. The survey concludes with a bibliography."
"A Iossy dielectric sheet has complex dielectric constant epsilon = epsilon (x) and complex permeability µ = µ(x), where x is the distance to one interface. This sheet is backed by a conducting surface and used as an absorber. If | epsilon (x)µ(x) | >>epsilon/sub 0/µ/sub 0/, so that (epsilon/epsilon/sub0/)(µ/µ/sub0/) - sin² theta is nearly independent of the incidence angle theta, then the amplitude reflection R(theta) is wholly determined by R(0). Typical results: When R(theta/sub0/) = 0 at one polarization, then at theta=theta/sub 0/ the reflection for the other polarization corresponds to a voltage standing-wave ratio SWR =sec² theta/sub 0/. At perpendicular polarization max | R(theta) | on (theta/sub 1/, theta/sub 2/) is least, for given | R(0) I, if R(0) is real and positive; and then R(theta) = 0 at tan²theta/2 = R(0). But for parallel polarization R(0) must be real and negative to get optimum performance. When the absorber functions at both polarizations the best obtainable result is | R(theta) | = tan²theta/2, no matter what interval (theta/sub 1/, theta/sub 2/) is specified. The error in the approximation is investigated theoretically and experimentally. A complete set of graphs is included, suitable for design of those absorbers to which the theory applies. The analysis also yields an exact expression for the limiting behavior of the reflection at grazing incidence. This can be used in problems such as computation of the field due to a dipole over a plane earth. Finally, the theory of the Salisbury screen is re-examined as an aid in checking the other developments."
"This paper presents a systematic approach to the evaluation of (waveguide) junctions from the standpoint of their conformance to certain symmetries. Preferred sets of asymmetry parameters are found which are complete, minimal in number, which go to zero when the junction represented is symmetrical, and which may often be identified with a corresponding structural symmetry defect. The asymmetry parameters are first introduced for general linear junctions, but special attention is given to reciprocal and lossless junctions. The derivation of these preferred sets is based on the theory of group representations hitherto employed in the analysis of ideally symmetric junctions. One of the applications of these preferred parameters yields first-order relations among the defects of a nearly perfect hybrid-T junction which are believed to be new."
"A modfied reciprocity theorem forms the basis of development of orthogonality relationships for modes in waveguides and in cavities containing inhomogeneous, anisotropic media. In the lossless case certain of these may be interpreted in terms of power flow and energy storage. The special case of magnetized gyrotropic media is discussed for longitudinal and transverse magnetization."
"The treatment of mismatch errors is extended to cover variable attenuators cascade-connected in a system which is not free from reflections. The method of analysis is applicable to any number of cascaded attenuators, but only the analysis of two and three variable attenuators in cascade is presented. Graphs are given to aid in estimating the Iimits of mismatch error. In an example, which is considered representative of rigid rectangular waveguide systems, the limits of error are: for two attenuators in cascade, 0.19 db in a 3-db measurement, and 0.17 db in a 40-db measurement; and for three attenuators in cascade, 0.25 db in a 40-db measurement, and 0.23 db in a 75-db measurement."
"The theoretical and experimental operation of a novel form of TEM transmission-line network capable of operation over octave bandwidths is described. This network consists, basically, of a parallel arrangement of two conductors and a ferrite rod within a grounded outer shield. The conductors maybe connected in a two-port configuration which provides, in the absence of the ferrite rod, complete isolation from zero frequency to the cut-off frequency of the first higher mode. With an unmagnetized ferrite rod properly inserted, the broad-band isolation is virtually unaffected. When the rod is magnetized by an axial magnetic field, coupling occurs between the two ports by a process analogous to Faraday rotation. The device may be used as a broad-band gyrator, switch, or modulator, and with the addition of a resistance load, as an isolator. The bandwidth of these components is inherently limited only by the bandwidth capability of the ferrite material itself."
"In order to obtain filters capable of handling very high power, the use of radial lines and uniform line discontinuities was investigated. Forty-five-degree tapers and uniform lines were used to design a high-power microwave filter capable of handling 700 kw at 15 pounds pressure in a 0.900 by 0.400 ID waveguide. In addition to the filtering which results from the discontinuities in the TE/sub 10/ mode in the waveguide, high insertion loss elements are effected when the enlarged uniform line section is larger than the TE/sub 10/ mode waveguide wavelength and when the length of the enlarged section is approximately (2n -1)lambda/sub g//4. Extremely large insertion losses are possible by the cascading of these elements. Tuning, in the standard-size waveguide, has no effect on the insertion loss of the higher-mode enlarged waveguide at its resonant frequency. Empirical design formulas are evolved and the design procedure for band-rejection filters is given, using these high insertion loss elements."
"A new approach is made to the problem of tapering the branch impedances for broad-band performance. A taper is proposed, which, for a 3-db branch coupler, is shown to give much better results in theory and practice than the currently used binomial taper. Also, simple expressions are developed which enable the effects of waveguide junction discontinuities to be adequately corrected, thus allowing a greater accuracy in design to be achieved than was hitherto possible."
"Weissfloch's transformer theorem states that at certain pairs of reference planes a lossless two-port can be represented by an ideal transformer. There are many proofs of this important theorem. One of the most interesting is due to Bolinder, who uses properties of the bilinear transformation. For lossless two-ports, the transformations will belong to the Fuchsian group."
"Use of two tuning screws through the ground planes of a strip-line cavity resonator can excite the parallel plane TEM mode unless both screws are equidistant from the center conductor, rendering this method of tuning quite unattractive. A single tuning screw parallel to and midway between the ground planes is the better way of tuning a stripline cavity resonator."
"The recent advances in low-noise amplifier work for communications systems has created an additional demand for circulators; in this case, to prevent receiver noise from returning to the low-noise amplifier. In the range of frequencies greater than 2000 mc, ferrite circulators have been developed in circular and rectangular waveguides. However, in the UHF region, which is a range of frequencies of increasing interest and importance in communications, ferrite circulators present a problem in the sense that ordinary waveguides needed in this range are prohibitively large for practical use. Button of Lincoln Laboratory and Seidel of Bell Telephone Laboratories have pointed a way around this difficulty by considering a TEM structure (a coax) loaded antisymmetrically with dielectric material and ferrite. This configuration provides for the longitudinal component of RF magnetic field necessary for nonreciprocity in the phase constant. The essentially TEM nature of the device allows use of reasonably small, practical cross-sectional areas. The parallel-plate analog analysis presented in Button's paper leads to a transcendental equation for the phase constant which we present below for convenience, together with an example of the structure."
"Mr. Dettinger's article on the optimum spacing of bead supports in coaxial transmission lines is too sanguine as to the performance which will result. He states that an array of M beads arranged according to his theory will result in a total reflection coefficient of no more than /spl radic/M Gamma/sub 0/ where Gamma/sub 0/ is the reflection of one bead. In his Fig. 5 he shows a chart of the reflection of four beads equally spaced and the reduced reflection which he hopes will result from application of his rule. The case where there are four beads will result for equal spacing in a maximum value of 4Gamma/sub 0/, and from his theory for progressive spacing it should be possible to arrange the beads so that the maximum possible reflection is only 2Gamma/sub 0/."
"I would like to add yet another comment concerning Riblet's theorem."
"Mr. Muehe's results for broad-band stubs, while going beyond that of previous investigators, are similar to my design curves published earlier without detailed derivation. The main difference is that my curves were based on a formula involving the bandwidth as defined by the lowest and highest frequencies of zero reflection. Mr. Muehe's analysis is therefore superior to my simpler approach: my design curves erred on the safe side in predicting a slightly smaller bandwidth."
"The properties of the lowest-order hybrid mode of the H-guide line have been analyzed by Tischer (1953, 1956, 1958) in a number of papers. This type of transmission line has also been under investigation at this laboratory for some time and a number of discrepancies exist between our analysis and those of Tischer."
"Let it be required to determine the guided wavelength in a dielectric-filled periodic structure, such as a corrugated wall or serrated waveguide. The accepted traveling probe technique requires a slot in the broad wall of the guide and a groove in the dielectric material. Even if the errors introduced by these modifications could be tolerated, other effects render this technique unsuitable, One of these is a surface-wave effect which resuIts in a measured wavelength higher than the one in the guide and lower than the free-space value. If the structure is dissipative, such as a serrated guide, more difficulties arise."
"The dielectric constant of low-loss dielectric materials can be measured accurately, rapidly, and automatically by proper utilization of an automatic microwave impedance instrument of the type which presents its output in Smith Chart form; i.e., the magnitude and phase of the reflection coefficient. The method employed is essentially a modification of the slotted line technique which was originally described by Roberts and Von Hippel, the difference being that the slotted line is replaced by an automatic impedance instrument with a direct reading scale."
"The serrated choke described by Dr. Kiyo Tomiyasu and J. J. Bolus is a very effective device to employ whenever long cuts or gaps are present on the walls of rectangular waveguide. This communication is concerned with the application of a serrated choke to an X-band waveguide ring switch, wherein the waveguide was split longitudinally at opposite corners to form a rotor section and a stator section."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"On May 9-11, 1960, at the Coronado Hotel, Coronado (San Diego), CA, USA, the IRE Professional Group on Microwave Theory and Techniques will hold the 1960 PGMTT National Symposium. The San Diego Chapter will be the sponsoring host. Prospective authors are requested to submit papers in the areas related to: Microwave Components; Microwave Systems; Microwave Physics."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Advertisement."
"Our objectives are to promote technical progress and to collect and distribute information. Your committees are working. Chapter programs are under way. The inputs needed to continue our mission successfully into the future are good papers, for Chapter meetings, for March IRE, for Wescon, and for our own PGPT National Symposiums. to isolate and prepare valuable papers may take slightly longer to clear legal, patent, and security approvals, but the rewards of the extra effort and the addLtional time are undoubtedly beneficial to the authors as well as to our industry. As with many worthwhile things, we Just have to start earlier and work a little harder. I would like to encourage each of our members to consciously seek to advance his own professional development by studying, attending meetings, writing and speaking. And supplementing this, seek to aid others by directly and persistently encouraging them to speak and write. This is a regenerative process, a mutual way to promote technical progress. It benefits us and it benefits our assooiates."
"Summary: It is pointed out that in order to reduce manufacturing costs, it is often advantageous to make use of standard assemblies despite the waste incurred due to the non-use of parts of these standard assemblies in meeting specific requirements. A special prototype problem is considered based on that premise; it arose in practice, in the design for production of logic circuits. A problem is outlined which requires that 55 basic elements, with one to seven diode outputs each, be assembled into a number of standard assemblies, and with a minimum of waste of diode outputs. The problem considered is: Given the number required for each size for basic elements of sizes n, n-1,...,1. Further, for k = l, 2,..., n, a basic element of size k may be used instead of a basic element of size k or k-1..., or 1 but consequently incurring a waste proportional to 0, or 1,..., or k-1, respectively. Then the problem is to define a standard assembly in terms of the number and sizes of basic elements and the number of such standard assemblies necessary to fulfill the requirements, under the condition that the waste be a minimum. A simple algorithm is given for finding the make-up of the standard assembly. The Appendix gives a more rigorous mathematical generalization for the solution of uniqueness and minimality, and its proof; linear programming is used in this treatment."
"An outline is presented of the analysis, engineering study, and theoretical investigation of the steady-state vibrations and the sudden-impulse-shock dynamic characteristics of a new military airborne gimbaled system. A mathematical model is described which consists of three mathematical regimes--each defining the distribution of dynamic masses and motions for one plane of excitation. Comprehensive recursion tables for the three regimes were filled out by the high-speed No. 704 Digital Computer. Dynamic-equation matrix coefficients were determined for each frequency. Where the error function was zero, the recursion tables were filled out to determine true mode shapes and distributions. Additional programming determined forcing-function responses and, through the use of open parameters, determined the effects of modifying masses and other elements of the system. Aerodynamic loads for extreme flight conditions were rigorously investigated, and margins-of-safety were determined. It is reported that this mathematical method led to recommendations for weight savings, as well as improvement in the dynamic characteristics of the system."
"One method of building airborne digital equipment is discussed, which makes use of the modularized etched-wiring plug-in philosophy, and which utilizes an all-etched-wiring harness to accomplish the entire complex of connections between plug-in units. Of a possible 364 external connections, 183 are actually brought to a possible 1716 connector contacts. These contacts, and their associated printed wiring, tie together 32 flip-flop modules and 17 diode-gating etched-pattern matrix arrays, without the use of a single piece of conventional wiring. Points of emphasis are miniaturization, reliability, small weight, accessibility, and manufacturability of the equipment."
"It is pointed out that the electronics industry long a heavy contributor to automation in other industries, has until recently been in the role, one might say, of the cobbler's son who goes barefoot. Bast and future expansion of the electronics industry is charted, as it is estimated that an all-out national emergency would demand an output of 10 times our present production rate. Automation is posed as a solution to this dilemma; as well as an aid to uniformity, miniaturization, conservation, quality, and reliability. Changing production requirements are cited. It is also emphasized that the product, the process, or both must be completly changed in order to make automatic production feasible. Two automation approaches are discussed: that of the component-parts manufacturer, and that of the equipment assembler. Three machines are described: a simple bench-type individual-insertion machine, a fully-automatic in-line insertion machine, and an automatic forced-area dip-soldering machine. Assembly efficiency of the in-line machine is charted in detail (for early 1956 operation). A 7½ % rework rate is quoted without insertion inspection, and a 0.07 % rate with insertion inspection. The need for greater reliability is stressed, and attainment of this greater reliability through automatic assembly anti automatic test is treated at some length. In conclusion, the author admits that the present state of the art leaves much to be desired, as we build new machines and modify our products for mass-production suitability. Yet high hopes are expressed that much simpler quality-control procedures and ranch more uniform products will give considerably more reliable equipment in the field-- and this, in the not too distant future."
"Ultrasonic metal fusion-Joining is finding application in the fabrication of electrical and electronic assemblies. Ultrasonic soldering and brazing without the use of flux are particularly effective in Joining connections to silicon or germanium transistors, in the Joining of insulated wires without pre-stripping, and in the type of multiple Joining necessary for printed circuitry and the like. In the fabrication of silicon transistor assemblies, ohmic contacts must be obtained, and conventional Joining methods are relatively difficult. Ohmic contacts can readily be achieved with ultrasonic fluxless soldering techniques. Equipment has been devised for evaluation of the resistance of such Joints, and comprehensive test data have been assembled by outside sources, indicative of the work currently being undertaken in the nation's laboratories. Mlcrographic evaluation of typical Joints shows minimum penetration of the solder into the base metal. Reliable electrical wire Joints can be achieved without the use of flux by ultrasonic techniques. Conductivity and burn-off tests have been used to evaluate the quality of ultrasonically-brazed wire Joints. The effect of solder or braze-alloy composition, as well as the effect of ultrasonic exposure time on the electrical properties of the Joints, were considered. Of particular significance, sound Joints can bo obtained on Formvar-coated wires without the necessity for pre-stripping. With ultrasonic fusion-Joining methods, fine-coated aluminum wires can be bonded together or aluminum wire can be bonded to copper magnet wire without the costly production procedure of first removing the insulation. Double-wire, triple-wire, and even quadruple-wire Joining is possible in a single operation. Techniques for accomplishing such Joints were described. Test data indicate that effective bonding is dependent on Joining time and temperature. Other limiting mechanical and metallurgical factors were discussed. A primary consideration in the selection of a solder or braze alloy for aluminum is the intended end use of the Joint, particularly its corrosion environment. Data have been obtained showing the typical strength behavior of a variety of solder alloys in several corrosion environments, and metallographic evaluation has indicated that different corrosion media may attack different solders in different ways; in some instances failure may occur at the solder-base metal interface, while others show solder-matrix failure. The adaptability of ultrasonic soldering techniques was illustrated by their use in simultaneous multiple soldering operations. Multiple-head ultrasonic units have been devised for soldering several points at one time, as on printed circuitry. The operation of such a unit was described with regard to operational sequence, effective coverage, limitations in its use, and potential applications."
"Findings are presented on the effect of various mechanical parameters, performance criteria, environmental conditions, and production techniques. Discussion centers about a K-band microwave duplexer, with particular emphasis on the hybrid ring, in an attempt to reduce breakdown rejections. Of humidity, temperature and pressure, only the latter bad a noticable effect on the breakdown measurements. Performance experiments covered pulse width, phasing, rise time and duty cycle with relation to both duplexer breakdown and magnetron life; and with rise time affecting breakdown. The mechanical aspects of dimensions, tolerances, imperfections and finish were investigated; and the latter two found to be the most important. The production techniques contributing to the determined causes were thoroughly investigated. Cleaning processes were proved to be of considerable importance. Corrective measures and effective rework procedures are described."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"EXAMINATIONS of the parameters effecting the reliability of thru connections indicate the following major factors: compatibility of the metal used in the hole with the surface metal, the condition of the laminate in the vicinity of the hole wall, and the relative stresses introduced by environmental cycling. Although advances have been made in all methods of side-to-side connection, most users are convinced that the electrolytic deposit of copper offers the most sound solution. Photocircuits Corporation, therefore, has expended considerable time to the improvement of the plated-thru-hole, and has successfully developed the \"Tuf-Plate Hole.\" This trademark covers the process as well as the product in which the individual parameters of the hole are produced, controlled, and inspected. The manufacturing process can be divided into three maj or operations: 1) Prefabrication--New tooling which is being employed to produce a clean hole free from burrs and delamination is the beginning of the \"Tuf-Plate Hole.\" With existing laminates, hole preparation requires additional treatment to produce the type of surface which will accept the sensitizer and prevent high current density points for hole size control and uniform plating. 2) Sensitizing--The sensitizing step has long been a matter of great concern and secrecy. This operation has improved to a point where the metal can be applied without degradation of the hole wall or interlaminate bond between the copper surface and plastic. Photocircuits has found that adherent copper reduction provides the most acceptable solution to this problem. Process changes and associated problems during the evolution of this sensitizer were discussed. 3) Plating--Plating the prepared boards employs a technique of controlled current density in a plating solution which provides the throwing and leveling characteristics essential to the \"Tuf-Plate Hole.\" Controls must be applied to this process to insure the maximum hole-to-surface plating ratio, deposition of fine grain copper, and adhesion to the base copper. Checks on these controls are provided by ductility tests, hardness measurements, and observations through the use of cross sections of the boards. Over-all observation of the effectiveness of the process is made through tests designed to compare the board with the conditions encountered in operation. Photocircuits tests include heat-shock, high-current burn out, and flexural cycling for intermittence. Additional environmental tests of high- and low-temperature endurance and cycling have been completed with success. In order to substantiate the qualities of the copper plating, vibration tests as well as the procedures outlined above have been made with the test boards without additional surface platings. These results indicate that the user may select the finished plating for the storage or soldering requirements without regard to the added mechanical strength. Reliability as represented by strength alone is not complete. Degradation of material thru process contamination will destroy a printed-wiring board's function electrically. Photocircuits Corporation has used this parameter in the development and use of all process solutions required for the \"Tuf-Plate Hole.\" Final etching of the wiring has been changed to eliminate the problems previously confronted in storage life and electrolite contamination. The results of the manufacturing procedures and tests were provided by the author. Photomicrographic displays of process sections were presented to illustrate problems and their solutions."
"THE application of transistors to military electronicequipment designs has revolutionized the concepts of size, weight, power requirements, and structure. The performance of certain functions using transistors instead of tubes results in a tremendous saving in power, thereby reducing the cooling-air requirements, and allowing in many instances an order-of-magnitude reduction in size and weight. Transistors, in contrast to tubes, can stand vibration and shock as well as the other component parts used in electronic equipments. This has reduced the need for specific structures and shock mounting. The use of etched-wiring techniques for component-part mounting and interconnection, combined with potted modular structures is feasible when using transistors. The transistor has revolutionized the design concepts of military electronic equipment, by allowing a reduction in power requirements, weight, and space."
"POLYSTRIP Cable is a thin, multiple-conductor, flexible cable. It consists of a number of parallel fiat copper wires sandwiched between polyester plastic layers. The cable occupies little volume, having a thickness of 0.009 inch and is flexible enough to fit into irregular spaces. It can reduce cable weight by as much as 80 percent in many applications. All conductors are prepositioned in the same plane permitting simultaneous stripping, termination, or dip soldering to printed wiring boards and connectors. The conductors are evenly spaced 0.100 inch center-to-center in order to conform with EIA Standards for printed wiring boards. The maximum number of conductors is 51; any smaller number can be readily fabricated. Lengths up to 1000 feet are produced. The weight of this cable is 0.64 lb per 1000 conductor feet. The design tensile strength is 4 lbs per conductor, with an elongation of 0.5 per cent. With proper design the flexing life is over 500,000 cycles. Tests at low temperatures have shown that when the cable was bent around a 3/16 inch mandrel at -78°C, no changes in tensile strength or cracking occurred. The cable is not attacked by dilute acids or alkalies. There was a slight reversible increase in weight on exposure to gasoline and carbon tetrachloride. Polystrip Cable is rated at a maximum of +85°C, hot-spot temperalure. It can withstand higher temperatures for short periods of time, and can be dip soldered. The insulation will support combustion. It is rated at 1 ampere per conductor in air at 25°C. The continuous operating rating is 600 volts. The breakdown voltage is in excess of 4 kv. Leakage resistance is 1.5 X 1013ohms per conductor-foot. Insulation can be readily stripped with commercially available wire strippers. Branches or tapped-off conductors can be fabricated at any position. Standard connectors are available. A conductor in Polystrip Cable may be electrostatically shielded by grounding the adjacent conductors. External shielding may be secured by applying pressure-sensitive aluminum or copper tape to the outside of the cable, and grounding the metal tape. Cables with a larger number of conductors, or with more complete shielding may be made by stacking Polystrip Cable. Conductors of different dimensions or spacing can be made to special order. Polystrip Cable has been used to interconnect printed wiring boards and flexible connectors between chassis parts. It may be of interest for use with large selector switches, telemetering circuits, and with multiple sensing devices. With wires of special alloys, it has been used for thermocouple circuits. A limitation of Polystrip Cable for some applications is its inability to withstand high ambient temperatures for long periods of time. At the present, development work is underway aimed at a cable capable of operation at temperatures of 200°C or higher."
"This paper describes the technique and equipment developed for automating measurement of the drift rate of precision single-axis floated gyros. The basic construction principles of singleaxis floated gyros are described and illustrated. The sources and components of drift are then discussed and defined. The random component of drift is shown to be a useful measure of gyro quality and is, by reason of its definition, suited to automatic testing techniques. The equipment used to measure the random component of drift consists basically of a single-axis servo table (in which the gyro to be tested is mounted), the servo table and gyro operating circuitry, and the programming and readout devices. Although adaptable to a variety of situations, the equipment is designed specifically to apply the \"cogging\" or repositioning type of single-axis gyro-drift test. The servo table is slaved to the gyro output so that the table angular rate is equal to gyro input plus gyro total drift. Two microsyns (rotary differential transformers) are attached to the table shaft with their null positions spaced at an accurately known angle. The unique phase characteristic of the microsyns is used to gate a precision frequency to a time-interval meter and a digital recorder. With a component of Earth Rate as input to the gyro, the time required for the servo table (and gyro) to process through the accurately-known angle is measured a number of times. The standard deviations of the average rates through the angle is taken as random drift. The time data is printed out in digital form for transfer to punched cards and digital processing. The application of the equipment to the development and production testing of precision single-axis floated gyros provides a means of accumulating large quantities of precise data in a relatively short period of time for a reliable statistical measure of gyro-production quality."
"It is pointed out that certain basic design disciplines are prerequisite to more effective mechanized use of printed wiring. The 25-rail layout grid is described as one of these basic prerequisites. Specification SCL-6225, \"Design Requirements for AutoSembled Army Signal Electronic Equipment,\" is presented as a basis for the present recommendations. The concept of \"projected component volumes\" is introduced: to make component-parts dimensions compatible with printed-wiring requirements; and to provide both a design guide, and a convenient assessment, for volumetric efficiency. Effects of hole, terminal pad, and conductorspacing variations are discussed. Component-part height variation is charged with the major contribution to poor volumetric efficiency, and corrective measures are suggested. Dimensions of length, height, and width are all recommended in building-block steps, compatible with printed wiring of the present, and micro-modules of the future; and certain preferences are given. Specification SCL-6254, \"Modular Dimensioning of Electronic Parts,\" is announced. It is concluded that these recommendations will form a logical extension of the large equipment module to provide greater ease of automation and higher volumetric ef- ficiencies."
"The author introduces Philco's TV middle-of-the-road philosophy for component parts. Basic ground rules are laid down, such as: machines must be simple and specialized; parts must be uniform and easy to handle. A considerable Philco experience with component insertion is indicated. It is pointed out that \"universal\" insertion machines are always more costly than specialized capital equipment. Component parts with a rectangular form factor and special leads are proposed, and the advantages of these parts are listed. The state-of-the-art is considered in order to assess the specific ease of conversion to such modular parts. Modular dimensions for multiple component parts are also suggested. It is emphasized that 60-40 solder coated--not solder plated--parts have always, in Philco's experience, surpassed all other types to some degree. Higher temperatures and shorter time cycles are recommended. The coordinate grid system is briefly discussed from the TV manufacturer's point of view. It is concluded that the industry has much to gain from a reliable mechanization program, and it is stressed that even the smallest detail is important when tooling for new parts. The rectangular component part is suggested as one solution to those conditions which have yet failed to yield reliable results to the machine de- signer."
"A realistic appraisal is made of present capacitordesign improvements, and of immediately-forseeable design trends. Three trends are discussed--those toward reliability, low voltage, and automation. In the area of reliability, accelerated-life and vibration test results are presented, covering 8950 \"Hyrel Q\" impregnated-paper capacitors. It is pointed out that as the demand for such capacitors increases, the cost differential relative to the garden-variety of sub-miniatures will become very small. It is emphasized that highreliability tantalum-electrolytic, metallized-paper, and ceramic capacitors will be available in the near future and that the developed processes will \"rub off\" on other types. The low-voltage trend is discussed in its relation to solidtantalum and other electrolytic types. The new Sprague 109D liquid-electrolyte porous-anode tantalum capacitor is described, and a 2- or 3-to-1 volume-efficiency advantage is shown over previous low-voltage types. Other performance, environmental, and reliability advantages are cited. Improved metallized-paper capacitors are placed in a new niche of reliability; and complex-film types are announced for replacing mica and ceramic types. Life-test data is presented showing a 44-to-1 improvement for one dielectric-film combination. The automation trend is pictured as toward the molded-paper capacitor, because of its better handling and tolerance qualities. Presently-available more-common types are listed, and some pending improvements are mentioned. Two molded automation types are described. A new monolythic multi-layer ceramic capacitor is announced which has approximately 70-times the capacity of previous ceramics using 20-mil disks. It is emphasized that the surface has only been · scratched in the development of new materials for capacitors. In conclusion, it is pointed out that greater standardization on the part of the electronics industry toward a reduction of' types and in stopping the usage of obsolete types will result in better capacitors, and at lower prices."
"The fallacies of present methods of Research and Development are discussed, and it is explained why these methods are being used today. It is posed that research itself needs researching. Inhibited thinking is charged with the predominant responsibility for limited research productiveness. Lack of imagination, fear of ridicule, desire to invent at the exclusion of facts, schedules and resistance to tool changes, and too much reliance of experience-these are given as the most important causes of inhibited thinking. The author warns: not to justify compromises, not to rely on luck, and to stop modifying modifications. Stating the problem in its fundamental terms is illustrated by an interesting story. An analogy to the story is provided by the present complex design of aircraft instrument panels. A methodology is suggested for conducting research and development by establishing a program of uninhibited thinking-- a long-range effort seeking ultimate solutions. Seven basic aims and accomplishments of the program are outlined. Examples are shown where breakthroughs have occurred by using this approach. (Slides were used in the verbal presentation for emphasizing certain points and to show examples of equipment developed from an exemplary program.) It is also pointed out that an interim program can make use of the \"rake-offs\" from the long-range program. (The talk was supported by a film which showed how this methodology was used in the development of aircraft instrumentation.) Five accomplishments of this specific program are listed. The author concludes that when something doesn't fit, don't just get a bigger hammer--instead, state the problem in its fundamental terms before trying to solve it."
"The growth of our microminiaturization capabilities to date is cited as having been random and uncoordinated. The Signal Corps' micro-module effort is described as a definite step toward a concept that has depth and scope. A new dimension--a ten-to-one size reduction over the best now realized, is selected as reasonably attainable in 3 to 5 years. Named as providing the background for the present program, are such designs as the Army's Korean \"Handy-Talkie,\" the Navy's \"Tinkertoy,\" the Bell Telephone Laboratories' transistor, and the Army's \"solder-dipped printed wiring.\" Also credited as being a major contributor, is the recent trend toward \"packaging by function\" where standard modular dimensions and a throw-away maintenance philosophy buy us another two-to-one size reduction, to reach a plateau of around 50,000 parts per cubic foot. It is stressed that a positive approach is now needed toward a completely new plateau in size and packaging density, of at least 500,000 parts per cubic foot. Our present capabilities are assessed, and a ten-to-one size reduction is shown for Sprague's ceramic printed circuit, and two transistor amplifiers by Centralab. The Army's micro-module wafer element (0.3 inch X 0.3 inch X 0.01 inch thick) is announced. A model demonstrating feasibility is shown, where a complete 5-transistor superheterodyne radio receiver is built into an ordinary fountain pen. Present capabilities are displayed for fabricating component parts on the 0.09-squareinch micro element. Specific accomplishments are shown, such as: a precision metal-film resistor, a precision glass capacitor, a flatplate ceramic capacitor, a hermetically-sealed solid-tantalum electrolyte capacitor, and several other special component parts. Five categories of Army equipments (portable, vehicular, missile, projectile, and satellite), and three plateaus of temperature (+85°C, +125°C, and +200°C, above a cold level of --55°C) are selected as meeting present Army environmental requirements. The guiding philosophy, in setting up the program, is described as providing: first, a meaningful step forward based on immediately attainable tangible techniques; and second, a parallel solid-state research effort to improve and mature the concept. To accomplish the \"big step forward\" in size reduction and \"throw-away\" maintenance, RCA is announced as leader-contractor to coordinate industry wide activities."
"It is reported that as of last year, an estimated 627,000,000 component parts have been mechanically assembled into 26,000,000 printed wiring boards. It is stated that the production equipment requirements and desires of the various assemblers of electronics equipment vary from a single bench-mounted inserting machine (for small lots), to the punched-card-controlled automatic-assembly machine, or even the automatic conveyor. It is pointed out that there is no one piece of equipment that will satisfy the needs of all assemblers; but that the DYNASERT system described can satisfy most. The paper includes a discussion of: a) factors governing the choice of a system, b) development of the DYNASERT machine system, including machines for component-part preparation, insertion---4 types, and conveying--up to 48 stations, c) varying the system to meet changing production demands, d) considerations affecting design for mechanical assembly, and e) benefits of mechanized assembly. An account is given of five users, making from 20 to 7000 panels per day, where all showed a considerable saving through mechanization. It is concluded that nearly all assemblers can utilize mechanized assembly to advantage, with the choice and size depending upon many factors. It is stressed that Military designs should be made compatible with mechanized assembly to provide for expansion in a National emergency. Finally, it is emphasized that mechanical assembly offers a means of increasing production in the face of a reduced labor force as related to the increasing popu- lation."
"A new high-speed programmed insertion device for axial-lead component parts is described, which produces the \"Y\" coordinate motion by movement of the printed wiring board and the \"X\" and \"Z\" motion by movements of the insertion head. Although the basic idea is not new, it is claimed that its combination with novel mechanisms has resulted in a truly high-speed experimental programmed machine. Success of the machine is credited to a new small-and lightweight inserting tool, which allows high-velocity movement, using low power, and with reduced resonance. A series of pneumatic cylinders are shown, following the binary progression to provide specific strokes by IBM punched-card control, for both lead preparation and insertion. Salient features of the mechanism are described as follows: a) almost any part under a diameter of 0.250 inch and a length of 0.850 inch can be handled, b) component parts are center-taped on reels after wrap-around terminals have been added, c) torque sleeves and yokes remove component parts from the tape reels, d) cards are stacked and conveyor fed to the insertion head, e) the controller is in console form, and takes binary-coded cards directly without the need for a decoder, and f) 1,920 bits of information are available from only two cards. Factors which have been experienced in connection with the manufacture of Sage Computers at IBM Kingston are mentioned. It is claimed that for over two-million insertions, most failures have been eliminated, even though insertion is at the average rate of 60 per minute. Potential of the system is estimated at a maintained speed of at least 120 per minute, with its future hinted by the insertion speed of less than 0.1 second which has been attained. Possible utilization of the equipment for other purposes is stressed, such as for programmed drilling."
"THE need of microminiaturization is discussed, and the first approach to the problem is introduced. Tiny active component assemblies, with extremely high packaging-densities are described. The method of assembly and testing is necessarily unique because the smallest available component parts which must be used are difficult to wire and trouble-shoot. Some conclusions regarding principles of construction are put forth."
"IN this age of missiles, computers, and airborne instruments, the stringent demands placed on electronic engineers and component manufacturers to produce smaller and smaller components have necessitated new techniques in production. Equipment manufacturers, such as our company, have recently concluded extensive development programs to offer to the electronics industry the practical means for manufacturing some of these electronic component parts. This paper will discuss first, the operation and application of a packaged high vacuum degassing and potting system for short pot life resins; second, techniques for high volume encapsulating; and third, a new approach to economical molding of small thermosetting plastic parts."
"Summary--Aspects of electronic part-cooling techniques applicable to 300-500°C equipments are presented. Contrary to some beliefs, the minimization of thermal resistance at these temperatures is as important as at lower temperatures. The significant shifts in the natural modes of heat transfer which occur with high-temperature electronic parts are outlined, together with some recommended methods of cooling high-temperature parts and assemblies."
"The technique for automatic testing of electronic components must be adapted to the requirements for each individual test program. This paper describes the methods employed in instrumenting two test programs. The first involves approximately 75,000 components of four types - resistors, diodes, transistors and capacitors - all being tested for an extended period under environmental and electrical load conditions. The second program, in contrast, describes the parameter measurements which have to be made on small quantities of semiconductor devices under nuclear radiation con- ditions."
"Summary- The dominant consideration influencing tine trend toward automatic test and checkout techniques for production-line test stations is cost reduction. Testing costs include the costs of test equipment and spares, of operating and maintaining personnel, of floor space, and of down time. As test cost per unit produced is the basis for comparison, the test rate achieved per station is a major factor. An analysis of test station requirements for a mass-produced missile is used as an example. This analysis shows major reductions in test cost per unit as a result of automation for subassemblies which have fairly complex test requirements; whereas for simple subassemblies, there are no cost improvements and manual testing is quite satisfactory. The necessity for maintaining high test rates with fewer, less skilled operators and with the corresponding reduction in test stations imposes high reliability requirements on automated equipment in order to preserve this economic advantage. Therefore, such features as self-checking fail-safe design, and printed-out test results are essential. The construction of automatic test sets from functional universal modules reduces first cost of equipment, permits rapid and economic servicing, and reduces obsolescence of equipment. Another advantage of the modular approach to production-line test set design is that test sets using only a low order of automation may utilize modules identical to those of the fully automated equipment. This extends the \"break-even\" point in the choice between automated and manual equipment towards increased application of the more sophisticated techniques."
"Mechanical concepts must be applied to modify electronic circuit design in order that large scale computer equipment can attain practical levels of reliability. This paper cites some specific mechanical design problems with regard to the reliability of a particular computer system, the AN/FSQ-7."
"The characteristic behavior of inorganic dielectrics under thermal, electrical, and mechanical stress is explained in terms of the atomic and molecular structure of matter. Nonconductors and conductors are treated as different areas of a continuous materials spectrum. The nature and properties of constituent raw materials in representative ceramic bodies are discussed. The chemistry of their combination is analyzed and Gibbs phase rule is applied. The phenomenon of plasticity in clay-water systems and its application to forming and shaping are examined. The manufacture of bodies containing varying amounts of plastic ingredients is described, and the influence of forming techniques on resultant properties of these bodies is shown. A few of the more common dielectric materials are listed, and a number of good design practices are given."
"The first transatlantic, Alaskan, and Hawaiian Submarine Telephone Cables are provided with repeaters spaced about 37.5 miles apart. Each repeater consists of a 3-stage electron tube amplifier and contains approximately 60 components. Because of their inaccessibility for repair or replacement, it is desired that these systems operate for the order of 20 years without failure of any component. This requires a degree of reliability for both active and passive components orders of magnitude higher than are achieved in more conventional systems. Electron tubes and high-voltage capacitors subject to \"wear out\" have been the subject of intensive development and life testing for more than 15 years. These studies indicate that at the low cathode temperature and low cathode current density used in the electron tubes, satisfactory thermionic performance can be expected for more than 20 years. Likewise, tests on the high-voltage capacitors indicate that, in spite of the use of a high dielectric stress, the probability of a wear-out failure in 20 years is low. These estimates, however, do not include the probability of catastrophic or sudden failure of the components. Since practicable test programs cannot measure the extremely low catastrophic failure rate expected of these components, it must be attained through the use of 1) reliable types, 2) close control of raw materials, 3) simple designs which are easy to make and inspect, 4) careful manufacture, and 5) thorough inspection. This procedure is restrictive and involves close attention to all details in both design and manufacture. Consequently, unusually detailed specifications were required for raw materials, processes, and components. Complete records of all operations and inspections were kept to insure against omissions or errors. Specially selected operators were trained; and required to demonstrate ability to produce satisfactorily before going on production work. Manufacture was carried out under exceptionally clean conditions. The product was inspected at each stage of manufacture so that hidden defects would not be missed. The resulting slow and painstaking manufacture disclosed many defects which would have been overlooked in normal production. Although no numerical value can be attached to the degree of reliability attained, experience in production and service to date indicate that it is unusually high. Over 270 million component hours of service without a failure have been accumulated to date, which indicates, with 90 per cent certainty, a failure rate of less than 1 in 10,000 per year."
"Although the \"Twister\" memory device is still in the experimental stage at the Bell Laboratories, great expectations for its use in the future may be considered. Very favorable performance results have been obtained in the past, and if the results are as favorable in the future, it may eventually replace many of the magnetic core and drum types of memory systems. Physical size of the Twister memory device may be small due to the diameter of the magnetic wires used and the high-storage density of an array."
"The motion of submerged repeaters during laying and pick-up in deep water has been investigated and the results are presented. An attempt has been made to gather together in a systematic way the very scattered references to long-term deterioration problems affecting the choice of materials of which components are made. Component testing procedure is discussed and special features of individual components which affect long-term deterioration are mentioned."
"Since the demonstration of the possibility of achieving very low noise amplification of signals in the centimetric wavebands, a great deal of work has been carried out in various laboratories with a view to producing and testing devices. The major part of the present article focuses attention on one particular device, the three-level solid-state maser. The physical principles underlying the process of stimulated emission of radiation are in many cases unfamiliar to electronic engineers, and study of the growing literature on the subject can be confusing without a clear understanding of the physics involved. The present article outlines the general theory of emission and radiation processes, particularly as they apply to the microwave spectrum. A quantum mechanical description is employed throughout, and a brief and not very rigorous account is given of the relevant portions of this theory as it applies to the investigation of transistors between energy levels. Well-known expressions are derived for the operating characteristics of a three-level maser, particular attention being given to the significance of the various factors involved and their relationship to easily measured quantities. Little information is included concerning practical maser amplifiers; at the time of writing, few practical devices had been constructed. A survey of recent literature indicates the rapid progress which has since been made, and shows the interest in the development of masers."
"After a brief outline of the history of the discovery and separation of the rare-earth elements, the modern theory of paramagnetism is summarized, and its application to these metals is discussed, with particular attention paid to the way in which deviations from the simple laws of paramagnetism at low temperatures can yield information on the types of magnetic interaction which exist in them. The present state of experimental knowledge about the rare-earth metals is described, and its interpretation for each element is discussed."
"Recent developments in resistors and potentiometers of the noble metal and metal oxide film types are described. Photographic methods of producing \"meandered\" resistance paths in the two types have been developed, as well as means of rhodium reinforcing the track portions to improve the wear characteristics, and in the case of oxide films, to reduce the contact resistance against the wiper. The relation between resistance, temperature coefficient, and film thickness has been determined for oxide films on glass comprising tin oxide as the major constituent, and from these, the conditions to result in low temperature coefficients over a relatively wide resistance range are deduced. The characteristics in respect of wear, noise, temperature coefficient, and electrical load for either type of element are briefly discussed."
"The salient characteristics of capacitors having dielectrics of polystyrene, polythene, polytetrafiuorethylene, and polyethylene terephthalate are enumerated, and the current trends are indicated. Test results on experimental capacitors made with the new polycarbonate film are also quoted."
"The magnetic properties and use of some conventional and new alloys are discussed. The control which can be exercised on the switching properties by varying composition and treatment is indicated and a very fast switching alloy described. The abnormally low permeability of very thin strip is explained; it can be avoided by keeping material and furnace atmosphere pure. The latest aluminum-iron and cobalt-iron alloys, and permanent magnets, are briefly described."
"Measurements of the current noise and voltage coefficient are given for metal film and carbon film resistors. In general, the noise power in the metal resistors was less than that in the carbon by a factor of 103, although a few of the former type were very noisy. For many typical applications in and below the audio spectrum the current noise in a large fraction of the metal resistors will be smaller than thermal noise even at rated dissipation. The voltage coefficients of the metal resistors were less than those in the carbon by a factor of about 10; in most units of the former type the coefficienats were less than 3 X 10--5per cent/volt, and in a few units they were less than I X 10--6per cent/volt. Voltage coefficients of both signs were found in the metal resistors, while all of them were negative in the carbon resistors."
"This paper considers the problem of optimum design of the impedance matching, lumped-parameter, wide-band transformer model with all transmission zeros at infinity. The spiral-tape-winding transformer is compared with the wire-winding transformer with an electrostatic screen, and it is shown that the former has no advantage over the latter except (perhaps) at quite low impedance levels. The low-pass-filter model of the transformer is considered in more detail than is customary, and it is shown that the HF performance of any lumped-parameter wideband transformer may be extended in proportion to the number of branches selected for the ladder network model of the transformer; building out the transformer-coupling network to include additional inductors and capacitors thus extends the frequency response. For a given network model and a given low-end cutoff frequency, it is shown that the high-end cutoff frequency is a function of the peripheral distance around the winding, the mean impedance level of the source and load, and the turns ratio. From this relation it is shown that the most favorable turns ratio is unity and that the most favorable impedance levels are low ones."
"The commoner types of resistor used in electronic apparatus are discussed in terms of recent developments. In most cases developments have been largely progressive improvements without fundamental changes in the component. Some of the more interesting of recently developed types are also considered, these being metal films and metal oxide films and combinations. Their potentialities are outlined. The paper concludes with some account of resistors that are in the process of development and may be available soon. Improvement and development in pyrolytic carbon resistors is foreseen and wider availability and use of metal and metal oxide films are predicted."
"Many designs have recently evolved for cooling digital equipments. The Sylvania Waltham Laboratories, in building the Universal Digital Operational Flight Trainer, UDOFT, has developed a cooling method applicable to many systems. Every designer is faced with the dilemma of obtaining an optimum balance between ease of testing finished equipment and ease of construction testing of the first engineering system. In the cooling plan used in UDOFT, both types of test work as well as system operation maintenance can be accomplished without disturbing the air-flow path over the many small plug-in packages which contain the computer circuitry. Any package, or all packages, can be removed from their respective slots and all remaining packages will still receive the same constant air supply. This is accomplished without any moving flow-control devices and without gasketing seals. The hot-spot temperature of the electron tubes and other heat sensitive parts is controlled by maintaining a known, fixed air flow through each individual package. This arrangement provides optimum thermal control of the system, thereby improving both component and total system reliability."
"This paper is a progress report on the Ad Hoc Study on Electronic Parts and Tubes Specification Management for Reliability Jointly sponsored by the Offices of the Assistant Secretaries of Defense (Research and Engineering)* and (Supply and Logistics). The basic objective of this study is to analyzer the recommendations established by the Advisory Group on Reliability of Electronic Equipment (AGREE) Task Group 5 in order to advise the, Assistant Secretaries of Defense (Research and Engineering)* end (Supply and Logistics) regaining efficient implementation methods and procedures. This study will cover the following areas relative to electronic parts and tubes: (a) Specification of reliability of parts and tubes in terms of failure rate as a function of time and the test procedures and plans for determining compliance with the level specified; (b) Survey of methods used in preparation and coordination of parts and tubes specifications; (c) Review of the Qualification Approval Testing requirements and procedures; (d) Adequacy of test requirements with respect to reliability requirements and quality control procedures; (3) Program for exchange of technical charaoteristics and test data on parts and tubes; (f) Methodology for development and dissemination of design guide or parts application data including failure rate curves or data as a function of circuit application severity level and enviroment."
"Since other presentations of this conference will cover the different electronic parts areas, this paper is limited to the improvements made in the general areas of resistors, transmission lines, mechtronics and relays. Changing environments along with the demand for improved performance, smaller size and longer life have been the motivating factors in bringing about electronic part improvements. Briefly these environmental changes are listed in Figure 1. It should be noted that there is a considerable spread in some of these conditions - as for example - temperature. This is because some electronic equipments are subjected to different environments than others and parts fulfilling these requirements may be so vastly different in size, cost and quantity requirements that it would be impracticable, for example, to use a 500°C component for all lower temperature appli- cations."
"The requirements for greater miniaturization, higher operating temperature capability, and better moisture protection have resulted in the development of new constructional techniques for electronic transformers. The developments in application of new materials and techniques are detailed. Among the new developments discussed are the application of fluorochemicals to transformers designed for maximum coil temperatures of 200°C.; the philosophy of \"controlled environment\" for the insulation system through the application of inert gases for transformers designed for maximum coil temperatures of 3S0°C. , and the application of epoxies to the molded coil encapsulated transformer."
"After a review of the reasons for the current emphasis on electronic materials, both in civilian industry and in the military, the government-area sponsored research and development program in this is reviewed and its basic objectives outlined. A brief discussion of probable long-term investigations in the area of electronic materials is followed by a listing of immediate materials requirements based on specific recommendations of qualified representatives of the Army, Navy, and Air Force. Emphasis throughout the paper is directed at the need for close cooperation between industry and the military, and two procedures--one conventional and obvious, and the second of a less conventional nature--are proposed as avenues leading toward an improvement in the current materials situation."
"Any discussion on the state of the art on such a broad subject as capacitors must by necessity Ibe somewhat sketchy. As many writers have pointed out, a capacitor is a relatively simple device; and because of its simplicity, its purpose can be achieved in many ways and with many materials. In this discussion I shall limit myself primarily to those constructions and materials which are now in production and which are be!.ng used in sufficient quantities to make their inclusion in any survey of economic importance. Some of the types are used only in Europe, while some types are used only in this country. The chronological comparisons that will be made will go back about forty years, Many of the capacitors used today were used at that time. No attemot will be made to determine just when during this period any of thesle capacitors came into existence. Also, only general characteristics will be given, since the number of various types is so great that it would require much more time than is alloted to me to discuss them. This discussion will attempt to cover two aspects of the art. One is based on materials and processes. The second is based on the evolution of the capacitor as indicated by the development of military specifications."
"The variable speed constant frequency alternator system provides accurate frequency control independent of the shaft speed. The method employed is completely electrical in contrast with the more conventional mechanical speed control systems. The principle of operation depends upon a constant angular velocity magnetic field in the alternator armature, the angular velocity being the vector sum of the mechanical velocity of the shaft and the velocity of an electromagnetic rotating field induced by the excitation of a polyphase field winding. The polyphase field winding is driven by a variable frequency polyphase exciter, its frequency being directly proportional to the speed deviation from synchronous speed of the alternator rotor and shaft. The frequency control system as described in this paper is the open-loop type and, as such, accomplishes absolute frequency control with no errors arising from load or speed transients. An experimental brushless, constant frequency, three-phase alternator is discussed."
"A screening methodology based on measurements of several parameters is proposed. The methodology provides an improved semiquantitative basis for the selection and evaluation of screening criteria The method is devised 1) to yield a minimum number of parameters required for effective screening with a linear function, 2) to determine the gain in reliability obtained by screening on the basis of two parameters rather than one, three rather than two, etc., 3) to determine the parameters which may be interchanged for measurement or cost reasons without changing the effectiveness of the screening procedure, 4) to determine the probabilities of screening out a superior component and failing to screen out an inferior component, 5) to determine the costs associated with making the screen:rig procedure more stringent, 6) to permit modification of the screening criteria for small changes in component-part design, or lot characteristics; 7) to determine the effect of alternative failure criteria on the screening criteria, and 8) to indicate when practical screening cannot be achieved using a linear function of the parameters selected for measurement. The methodology is based on a combination of standard statistical techniques, and is novel only in maintaining a tractable analysis of the over-all problem of screening individual component parts by variables inspection."
"The dissipation in a silicon rectifier depends on the characteristics of the rectifier (threshold voltage and ohmic resistance) and the circuit constants (inductive, resistive, or capacitive load). Dissipations under these different conditions are calculated. The maximum permissible dissipation is limited by maximum junction temperature and thermal stability. The stability criterion depends on the thermal resistance, the reverse characteristic and its change with respect to temperature, the reverse voltage, and the circuit configuration. Derating curves are obtained, based on known variations of the reverse characteristics of silicon rectifiers with temperature and voltage. The maximum permissible transient dissipation depends on the total surge energy. The energy dissipated in the rectifier is high when the load capacitance is high and the external series resistance is low. A design embodying all the foregoing considerations is illustrated."
"Specifications for a wide-band multitap delay-line are rationalized by the demands of a matched-filter commtmication system employing a pair of such delay lines. The delay line is specified in terms of time-domain characteristics."
"Currently available high dielectric constant ceramics enjoy certain special advantages for use in capacitor design. However, there are also severe limitations which must be well understood by engineers attempting their application. This paper summarizes the principal electrical characteristics, favorable or otherwise, of these materials and attempts to relate them to well-known basic dielectric properties. In addition, a brief review of present knowledge of ferroelectricity in barium titanate is given, since many of the practical problems encountered in the use of high dielectric constant ceramics are rooted in the inherent ferroelectricity of the material. A few remarks are included concerning avenues of future advance in high-K ceramic applications."
"Presents the Professional Group on Antennas and Propagation (PGAP) Newsletter. Includes some of the following information: News and events of interest to PGAP members; PGAP Committees and meetings; upcoming conferences, symposiums, and workshops; PGAP publications information; chapter events; and major industry events."
"Presents the Professional Group on Antennas and Propagation (PGAP) Newsletter.  Includes some of the following information:  News and events of interest to PGAP members; PGAP Committees and meetings; upcoming conferences, symposiums, and workshops; PGAP publications information;  chapter events; and major industry events."
"Presents the Professional Group on Antennas and Propagation (PGAP) Newsletter.  Includes some of the following information:  News and events of interest to PGAP members; PGAP Committees and meetings; upcoming conferences, symposiums, and workshops; PGAP publications information;  chapter events; and major industry events."
"Presents the Professional Group on Antennas and Propagation (PGAP) Newsletter.  Includes some of the following information:  News and events of interest to PGAP members; PGAP Committees and meetings; upcoming conferences, symposiums, and workshops; PGAP publications information;  chapter events; and major industry events."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The form of the transient electromagnetic ground wave which has been propagated over a finitely conducting spherical earth from a source current dipole can be calculated by a direct quadrature evaluation of the Fourier integral. The method is illustrated in this paper by a calculation of the transient field radiated by the particular case of the damped sinusoidal source current dipole. At short distances from the source, the earth was assumed to be a plane and the displacement currents in the earth were neglected. The pulse was then calculated by a direct evaluation of the Fourier integral and the integration was verified by special operational methods (inverse Laplace transformation). The form of this pulse was then predicted at great distance from the source by a direct evaluation of the Fourier integral in which the displacement currents in the earth and the earth's curvature were introduced into the Fourier transform. The form of the transient signal was found to be dispersed by the propagation medium. The most noteworthy attribute of this dispersion is a stretching of the period of the wave so that the form of the source is somewhat obscured by the filtering action of the medium."
"Rigorous expressions for the radiation field of a helical antenna of elliptical shape are derived on the assumption of a traveling-wave type of current distribution along the helix conductor. The analysis is valid for integral and nonintegral numbers of turns. These expressions for the general helix are employed to determine the fields for the limiting case of a circular helical antenna, and the results are essentially the same as those derived by both Knudsen and Kornhauser. Allowing the ellipse to degenerate to the other limiting case, a solution for the radiation field is obtained for the planar or commonly known zig-zag antenna. Therefore, it is possible to achieve a truly circularly polarized field with an elliptical helix of slight ellipticity."
"The following two-dimensional scattering problem is solved exactly by a Wiener-Hopf procedure. The incident field is a TM surface wave traveling in the positivexdirection and guided by a reactive surface in the planez=0. The surface has normal reactanceX_{0}ifx<0, andX_{1}ifx>0.X_{0}andX_{1}are assumed positive and real. The discontinuity produces reflected and transmitted surface waves and a radiated field. Closed form expressions are found for the magnitudes of these fields. The reflected, radiated, and transmitted power flows, relative to that of the incident field, are plotted in universal curves. Conservation of energy is verified exactly."
"A time dependent definition of the virtual height of a reflected wave train is suggested. This definition is such that its accuracy increases as the width of the incident pulse increases. Moreover, it is theoretically possible to obtain an estimate of the virtual height with as small an error as desired, no matter what the nature of the reflecting medium. Suppose an incident pulse having widthWand a carrier frequency\\omega_{0}produces a reflected wave which, when measured at a fixed pointx={0}in space, isR(\\omega_{0}, w, t). The suggested definition of the virtual heighth'(\\omega_{0})ish'(\\omega_{0}) = lim \\min{\\omega\\rightarrow\\infty}c\\{\\int\\min{-\\infty}\\max{\\infty} t\\|R(\\omega_{0},w,t)\\|^{2}dt/ \\int\\min{-\\infty}\\max{\\infty}\\|R(\\omega_{0},w,t)\\|^{2}dt -\\int\\min{-\\infty}\\max{\\infty}\\|I(\\omega_{0},w,t)\\|^{2}dt/\\int\\min{-\\infty}\\max{\\infty}\\|I(\\omega_{0},w,t)\\|^{2}dt},wherecis the free space velocity of light. This relation forh'(\\omega_{0})holds for any physically reasonable incident wave train and is independent of its envelope shape. An example is given of a reflected wave whose virtual height cannot be determined by inspection in the usual manner. The expression given here for the virtual height provides the correct result."
"A method for the experimental determination of the back-scattering cross section of arbitrarily shaped obstacles is suggested, which, in a manner analogous to the Michelson interferometer in optics, makes use of a semitransparent mirror in order to separate the incident wave and the reflected wave. A measurement setup is described, and possible sources of error are discussed. The accuracy of measurements is investigated by comparing the measured values of the back-scattering cross section of circular metallic disks with the results obtained from the exact theory."
"A simple graphical method is given for the synthesis of a special line source system. The elements of the line source system are excited with equal amplitudes and continuously increasing phases. The sources lie on a cylindrical surface. The shape of this surface depends on the given pattern functions."
"The capacitance per unit length, and hence the characteristic impedance of two infinite cones, may be accurately measured by employing an extension of conventional guard techniques. An appropriate gap is cut in one of the cones, converting the structure into a three-terminal capacitor. If the arm beyond the gap is long enough, the desired field distribution will be maintained past the gap and the capacitance per unit length of the isolated or guarded section may be measured by a conventional low-frequency capacitance bridge."
"Recent developments in some of the more active areas of antenna and diffraction theory are summarize& Although concerned primarily with U.S.A. activity, some reference is made to the literature of other countries where closely allied work is in progress. Fields included in this survey are broad-band antennas, wide-angle microwave optics, antennas for ionospheric scatter propagation, traveling-wave antennas, slot radiators, diffraction, and scattering theory. Recent work in broad-band antennas has been concerned mainly with trying to hold both radiation pattern and impedance independent of frequency. The problem has been approached successfully through development of that class of antenna shapes which depends on angles only. The equiangular spiral is a simple example. In microwave optics the requirements for wide-angle scanning of antenna beams have been met largely by using new light-weight, low-loss dielectrics to construct suitable lenses such as a spherical Luneberg lens. Using the geodesic analog of the Luneberg lens in one plane a scan of 40 beamwidths without aberrations has been obtained. The very high gain required for antennas suitable for VHF ionospheric scatter propagation has been obtained through use of long horizontal rhombics and, more recently, by corner reflector antennas driven by collinear arrays of dipoles. The latter antennas have the important advantage for this application of much lower sidelobe level Traveling-wave antennas have received much attention in recent years because of their inherent adaptability to flush-mounted applications. Among the forms considered are corrugated surfaces and single or double dielectric-clad surfaces. The launching problem has been studied rather intensively and recent interest has been shown in the synthesis and scanning aspects for slow-wave structures. Progress has continued in the exploitation of fast-wave systems, with major advances centering on the launching problem and the polarization problem. Strip lines are taking an important place as feeding systems for traveling-wave antennas. Recent years have been marked by considerable research activity on flush-mounted microwave antennas. Such antennas often take the form of slots or apertures in the metallic surfaces of aircraft. The radiation pattern of the slot radiator depends upon the shape of the metallic surface in which it is cut, and for complicated shapes resort is made to experiment. However, certain simple geometric shapes have been treated mathematically. These shapes include the circular cylinder, half plane, wedge, sphere, elliptic cylinder, oblate and prolate spheroid, and cones. Various combinations of these shapes on which work also has been done are the semicircular boss on a flat ground plane, the cylindrically tipped wedge, and the spherically tipped cone. The problem of radiation from apertures in a metallic surface is closely related to the reciprocal problem of calculating the currents excited on the surface by an incoming wave. As a direct consequence of the reciprocity theorem there is an intimate connection between slot radiators, diffraction, and scattering. The result is that the extensive body of knowledge classed as diffraction and scattering must be considered as an integral part of antenna theory. During the past three years there has been a very considerable effort in obtaining new exact solutions, several new approximate solutions, and a better physical understanding of the mechanisms involved in scattering. All of the geometric shapes mentioned above have received attention, and much experimental work has also been done. For the future it can be expected that this intensive effort will continue with emphasis on the asymptotic approaches of Kline and Keller, the method proposed by Logan, and Fock's method of obtaining asymptotic results based on local analysis."
"This paper outlines recent progress in the theory of tropospheric scatter propagation in the United States. In the past three years, the emphasis of theoretical research has shifted from the analysis of the average signal level to the analysis of the signal statistics and to the underlying hydrodynamics of atmospheric turbulence. As might be expected in such a new and complex field, there is far from unanimity of opinion as to the \"best\" model to explain the myriad experimental results."
"The expression of the field radiated by a rhombic antenna, taking into consideration both the vertical and the horizontal polarization components, is used to establish the theory of the array of two stacked rhombics and of the array of four rhombics in a stacked and interlaced arrangement. The main conclusions obtained are that for convenient values of the vertical and horizontal spacings between the antennas of the array, there is a greater concentration of power radiated along the directions of the main lobe of the pattern and, as a result, these arrays show an appreciable gain over a conventional rhombic. Practical rules for the design of these arrays for point-to-point and broadcasting are given in some detail."
"An integral equation for the current in a rectangular loop of wire is derived for a loop that is driven by two generators located at the centers of one pair of opposite sides. The EMF's are equal in magnitude and in phase in the sense that they maintain currents in the generators that are in the same direction relative to the coordinate system and, therefore, in opposite directions from the point of view of circulation around the loop. An approximate solution is obtained for the distribution of current around the loop and for the driving-point impedance. It is shown that the solution for the rectangle of wire reduces to that of the symmetrically driven folded dipole when one dimension is made electrically small and to a section of transmission line driven simultaneously at both ends when the other dimension is made small. The loop that is electrically small in both directions is also examined."
"A theoretical analysis of slotted dielectric interfaces based on an application of the Rayleigh-Ritz method is presented. Formulas for calculating the equivalent circuit parameters are derived for arbitrary polarization and angles of incidence. Numerical results are given which show that the slotted dielectric interface behaves essentially as a homogeneous anisotropic dielectric interface. Formulas and numerical values of the equivalent dielectric constants are also given."
"A design procedure is given for finding the index variation of a spherically (or cylindrically) symmetric lens which will produce, with some restrictions, any desired shaped beam pattern. Applications are made to a broad beam Luneberg lens, a bistatic Luneberg reflector, and a bistatic Eaton-Lippmann lens, and other examples are worked out. The practical importance of the index singularity at the center of lenses of the Eaton-Lippmann type is treated."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Two sets of sources, equivalent in the sense that they produce the same field as does an illuminated conductor, are discussed. Both representations are suggestive of approximation. Crude approximations are made, yielding what are called \"the physical optics solution,\" and the \"image induction solution.\" It is shown that these two solutions are reciprocal to each other. This means that, given a source and an observer, the solution by one method is equal to the solution by the other method with the source and observe interchanged. Both solutions are amenable to further refinement if more accurate solutions are desired."
"Line source radiators of the leaky wave type may be constructed readily with trough waveguide, which consists of a rectangular trough containing a symmetrically located center fin. Two types of such radiators are investigated: a continuously asymmetrical form suitable for near endfire radiation, and a periodically asymmetrical design permitting radiation through broadside. The propagation characteristics of the leaky wave on the continuously asymmetrical structure are determined theoretically by means of a transverse resonance procedure, and comparison is made with measured values. The influence of finite center fin thickness is also accounted for. Designs and radiation patterns are presented for a typical antenna of each type."
"A circularly polarized antenna is described which makes possible bandwidths that a few years ago were considered to be impossible. The design of the antenna is based upon the simple fundamental principle that if the shape of the antenna were such that it could be specified entirely by angles, its performance would be independent of wavelength. Since all such shapes extend to infinity it is necessary to specify at least one length for an antenna of finite size. The one length in this antenna, the arm length, need only be of the order of one wavelength at the lowest frequency of operation to obtain operation essentially independent of frequency, and the geometry of the antenna allows this arm length to be spiraled into a maximum diameter of one half wavelength or less. Antennas have been constructed that have an essentially constant radiation pattern and input impedance over bandwidths greater than 20 to 1."
"Directivity curves, of a uniform broadside array of isotropic sources, are shown to illustrate that gain increases almost linearly with aperture size until an optimum source spacing of approximately0.9 \\lambdais reached."
"The inverse scattering problem considered here is that of finding the shape of a reflector which produces a prescribed scattered wave. The scattered wave is characterized by its angular pattern, which determines the differential scattering cross section of the reflector. The problem is solved by means of explicit formulas for cylindrical and for rotationally symmetric objects. Plane, cylindrical, and spherical incident waves are considered. The general three dimensional object is also treated. The method of geometrical optics is used throughout."
"The correlation function and corresponding power spectrum of an electromagnetic wave affected by random dielectric noise is related to the power spectrum of the source by an extension of the notions of time-variable linear networks. It will be shown that in general, the power spectrum of the received signal can be regarded as the output of a network characterized by a time-variable transfer function. The results are applied to a long line of sight radio link and used to predict the error in the received signal in a mean squared sense. This will be used to show that the rate of a source is bounded such that there exists a maximum rateRgiven a bandwidth\\deltaand scattering parameters of the atmosphere."
"A solution of the wave equation is obtained corresponding to an outgoing cylindrical wave between two parallel ground planes, and satisfying the boundary conditions appropriate to a center-fed, full height antenna at the origin. Expressions for the antenna current and impedance are obtained from a small radius approximation to these; formulas are obtained for comparison with those from usual antenna theory. Attention is directed to the expansion parameter and gap capacitance."
"An electromagnetic signal propagated through a medium of randomly varying dielectric exhibits random-phase fluctuations. The phase of the total signal is the average of all rays which strike the reflector and is therefore smoothed by a receiver-reflector combination of finite aperture. This paper presents a theoretical analysis and numerical results for this phase-smoothing for small phase perturbations. The receiver is assumed to be a circular parabolic reflector with a collecting feed at the focus. The propagation is described by Fresnel scattering and the one dimensional ray theoretical expressions employed. Closed form results are obtained for three separate space correlation models of the random dielectric medium. These results are valid so long as the scattering parameterL\\lambda l_{0}^{-2}is small."
"With the increased use of the ionospheric scatter mode of propagation in the VHF range, the horizontal rhombic antenna is employed in many instances because of its simplicity, high performance, and low maintenance costs. Designers of these long rhombics have no doubt realized that the \"maximum output\" and \"maximized\" designs described by Harper and others do not take into account current attenuation due to radiation and cannot generally be employed whenl/\\lambda>8because of the requirement that the first ground factor maximum should agree closely with the free space vertical pattern maximum. This leads to the conclusion that power gain is the logical basis for design. In order to formulate an expression for power gain, a relation must be established between the radiation resistance with uniform current distribution and radiation resistance with exponential current distribution. The expression derived by Lewin is compared to that derived by Zuhrt. Gain curves are drawn using the formulas, and the \"maximum output\" and lobe alignment design are compared on the basis of gain with the design based on maximizing the vertical pattern function at the desired angle of radiation. It is found that only under certain conditions does the \"maximum output\" design have greater gain for the same leg length. The maximum gain condition is discussed together with optimum termination loss, attenuation rates, and surge impedance formulas for multiple wire rhombics. In general, the analysis does not invalidate the design conditions previously derived, but rather increases the emphasis on the general alignment condition and gain and decreases the importance of the \"maximum output\" and \"maximum alignment condition\" which were derived on the basis of a constant input current and uniform current distribution."
"A rigorous formulation for ring source Green's functions for a semi-infinite cone, carried out in terms of images in an infinitely extended angular transmission line, is evaluated asymptotically in the short-wave length range to yield geometric-optical, diffracted, and transition effects. Both scalar problems with Neumann or Dirichlet type boundary conditions, and electromagnetic problems appropriate to a perfectly conducting cone, are treated. The results are applied to calculate approximately the radiation pattern for a prescribed magnetic current distribution on the cone surface which can be taken to represent the excitation due to certain leaky wave type antenna arrays."
"Results of radar investigations of auroral ionization at a frequency of 398 mc are described. The radar detected auroral echoes at College, Alaska (near Fairbanks), even when the line of sight from the transmitter does not intersect the earth's magnetic field lines at perfect perpendicular incidence. The auroral echoes were observed with off-perpendicular intersection angles as great as10\\deg. The requirement for near-perpendicular intersection of the radar beam with the earth's magnetic field is therefore met. The auroral echoes at 398 mc were seen frequently. Occasionally they were very strong; those of highest amplitude were as much as 27 db above the receiver noise level. The echoes were detected over a relatively large echoing region corresponding to bearings within\\pm 45\\degof geomagnetic north, and elevation angles of0\\deg-17\\deg. Two types of auroral echoes were observed-discrete and diffuse. The discrete echoes corresponded roughly to reflections from visual auroral forms seen at night. The diffuse echoes corresponded to reflections from a large echoing region that apparently existed most often during daylight hours. Estimates of the wavelength,\\lambda, dependence of auroral echo power, although quite crude, are deduced as\\lambda^{10}for the radar site at College, Alaska, and\\lambda^{5}for sites where perpendicular reflection can be obtained."
"The results from the operation of a 215-mile, 2720- mc radio link are discussed. The link was operated for a period of twenty months. The yearly median signal level was 79 db below free space with a seasonal variation between 12 and 14 db in the hourly medians. If attention is confined to a single season the hourly medians have a log-normal distribution. No diurnal variation was observed. Probability distributions of signal amplitude based on 30- second samples were most commonly Rayleigh although some significant departures from this law did occur. A study of the time variation of the 30-second median shows the standard deviation of these medians five minutes apart to be about 1 db, and thirty minutes apart to be 2.6 db. The same type of analysis is also performed on the hourly medians. A diurnal variation is observed in the fading, with the midafternoon rate being almost twice that recorded during the early morning. Pulse distortion and meteorological correlations are discussed qualitatively."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The concept and characteristics of Antenna-to-Medium Coupling loss have already been discussed in the literature in some detail. These earlier analyses show that the coupling loss is not significant unless the beamwidth of the antenna becomes equal to or less than the angular width of the scatter volume as seen from the antenna. An inverse phenomenon occurs if one tries to design an antenna null to protect a given location beyond the horizon; namely, if the width of the null is narrower than the angular width of the scatter volume, the null can be filled in by off-path scattering and the desired protection might not be achieved. This paper outlines the analysis used in evaluating the \"filling in\" of the antenna null by off-path scattering and presents curves which should prove useful in obtaining quantitative estimates. An examination of the interrelation between the scattering process and the free-space antenna pattern reveals that the scattering process averages the free-space antenna pattern, the averaging interval being of the order of several degrees. Thus a qualitative conclusion can be drawn that if it is desired to protect an installation with a 40 db null, this null must be maintained over at least several degrees in order to be effective. A cosine squared pattern is not satisfactory."
"The reflection that the abrupt termination of a semi-infinite circular dielectric rod produces on theTM_{0.1}surface wave is determined here by calculating the terminal admittance of the surface wave at the end of the rod. The semi-infinite dielectric rod is regarded as an open waveguide partially filled with dielectric. The half space at the end of the rod is analyzed as a homogeneous open waveguide. The complete sets of proper and improper eigenfunctions are found for both waveguides and used to represent the transversal fields. Finally, a variational expression is set up for the admittance and an approximate value is obtained using as trial field the pureTM_{0.1}surface wave."
"A method is obtained for determining far field patterns, sidelobes as well as the main beam, for an array of slots on the surface of a cone. It is found that accurate results can be obtained for a single slot by using geometric optics for the main beam and an extension of Fock theory for fields in the shadow region. The tip contribution is computed by physical optics and, for reasonably thin cones, is found to be negligible. The array pattern is obtained by appropriately summing the single slot fields. To test the validity of the method and to test the ease with which computations could be performed, a radiation pattern from a linear array of 65 slots on the surface of a cone was computed and compared with experiment. The agreement is excellent. The major theoretical part of this paper is the generalization and simplification of Fock theory as applied to the surface of a cone."
"A study is made of spherical reflectors for use as wide-angle scanning antennas. In order to keep the effects of spherical aberration within tolerable limits, the approach of using a restricted aperture is adopted. This approach is suitable for applications requiring very wide angles of scan. Experimental results show that the phase error over the illuminated aperture of a spherical reflector should not exceed one-sixteenth of a wavelength. This requirement determines the beamwidth of the primary source. A square-aperture horn with diagonal polarization is found to satisfy the requirements of a suitable feed for the reflector. Secondary patterns of a 10-foot-diameter hemispherical reflector illuminated by this horn at 11.2 kmc have a 3-db beamwidth of1.76\\degand a relative sidelobe level of about -20 db throughout a total useful angle of scan of140\\deg. The measured gain is 39.4 db, which is equivalent to the gain of a uniformly illuminated circular aperture of 31-inch diameter."
"The far field of a cheese antenna can be described in terms of three components: a) one due to the unobstructed aperture field, b) one due to that portion of the primary feed energy not intercepted by the reflector, and c) a scattered component due to the fact that the feed acts as an obstacle in the path of energy emerging from the reflector. This scattered component is usually calculated by considering a perturbation in the aperture field, in the form of an out-of-phase component sufficient to produce zero field in the geometrical shadow region behind the feed. A more exact analysis of a reflector excited by a longitudinally-slotted circular cylinder shows this engineering approach to be satisfactory, provided the out-of-phase component is assumed to exist over an area of width 1.5 times the projected width of the feed. An empirical investigation shows a similar result for a slotted rectangular waveguide feed and for a horn feed. An antenna is described in which the scattered field and the backlobe of the primary feed are made to partially cancel. An additional control over these field components is provided by a series of vanes or waveguides located either side of the feed."
"The simple classical theory employed in the analysis of electromagnetic waves propagating through an ionized gas is not sufficiently general to take into account the variation of the complex conductivity of the plasma with the magnitude of the impressed EM field. Problems of this nature arise when it becomes necessary to transmit radar signals of high energy density through the ionized shock wave produced by a hypersonic vehicle. The exact theory of conductivity developed by Margenau is for impressed, relatively high field strengths too difficult to handle from an analysis and computational standpoint. By making two simplifying assumptions in the general velocity distribution function and graphically interpolating between them, two relations, one nearly exact and one employing the simple theory, are obtained for the conductivity. The accuracy of these relations is then examined analytically for a typical case, and graphical comparisons between the methods are made. Effects of neglecting Coulomb interactions and higher order components in the velocity distribution function are considered briefly. For an example, the complex conductivity of a typical ionized shock wave as a function of field strength and frequency is calculated and plotted."
"A system for measuring the power scattered by a region of thermally turbulent air is described, and its performance is analyzed. Also described is the equipment used to generate the turbulent region and the temperature fluctuations therein. The experimental procedure can be summarized by stating that it consisted in measuring the fluctuations of the null in the interference pattern of an antenna array composed of two antennas excited out of phase, when thermally turbulent air, of known properties, was interposed between the receiving and transmitting systems. The measured and calculated receiver response due to scattering by the turbulent air is compared, and it is noted that they agree at least within an order of magnitude. The experiment described shows that a measurement of the angular dependence of the signal scattered by turbulent air is within the possibilities of available techniques, although a more elaborate measuring system and higher microwave power levels would be required."
"The results of continuous observation of a duct carried out utilizing a tower 312 meters high are presented together with those of measurements of microwave fading conducted simultaneously. The variation of duct height with time, as well as the influence of the duct on fading for a horizontal and an oblique propagation path, are investigated in detail. A ray-theoretical analysis is given, indicating that fading may be attributed to the divergence or the convergence of radio waves and to the interference of two or more rays, caused by existence of a duct, or, more generally, of nonlinearM-profile. A comparison of calculation with experimental results shows that many of the characteristics of microwave fading are well explained by means of this interpretation."
"Ray tracing methods have been applied in the computation of atmospheric refraction for a path at White Sands Missile Range, N. Mex., with a range of about 48 miles and an elevation angle of 14.5 milliradians. The atmosphere was assumed to be horizontally stratified. Refractive index profiles were derived from meteorological data obtained from surface observations, wiresondes, radiosondes, and airborne refractometer soundings. The profiles were classified \"A\", \"B,\" or \"C,\" in descending order of reliability, prior to radar refraction computations. The classification system considered the variety of data available, the time lag between radar and weather observations, and the proximity of the sounding to the propagation path. A good correlation between observed and computed angles resulted and the correlation was directly related to the classification. Radar observations were made in theX-band and instrumental precision maintained to within 0.25 milliradian. Total bending ranged between 0.56 and 2.23 millirardians, with standard deviation 0.38 milliradian. The rms deviation of computed from observed angles ranges from 0.19 to 0.41 milliradian for Class A and Class C data, respectively. The correlation coefficient ranges from 0.81 to 0.13. It is concluded that within the limits of this experiment: a)ray tracing methods are justified, b) horizontal stratification may be assumed and c) the accuracy of bending predictions is increased by improving the meteorological data."
"An approximate expression is derived for the phase velocity of wave propagation along an infinite Yagi structure and its dependence on the various parameters of the structure is discussed in detail. The structure is at first studied qualitatively by applying the transmission line analogy. The problem is next treated from the viewpoints of linear antenna and field theories. It is assumed that a traveling wave is propagating along the axial direction and it induces an axially symmetric and sinusoidal current distribution in each element The electric field at any point due to this current distribution is calculated by the Hertz vector method. After applying boundary condition to the electric field, an expression for the propagation constant is derived. The results are compared with existing experimental values. The agreement between theory and experiment is found to be within 5 per cent. The accuracy of the expression given is sufficient for practical purposes."
"By means of the earth-flattening approximation, the problem of radio diffraction by the earth is treated as that of refraction in an atmosphere with a linear profile of modified index. Use is made of the saddle point method, whose special case, known as the method of stationary phase, proves useful for analysis of the normal propagation within the horizon. It is found that the classical diffraction theory is as valid at ranges beyond the horizon as in its neighborhood, if account is taken of the contribution of other terms than the first of the residue series, and that exclusive use of the saddle point method makes it possible to deal systematically with the tropospheric propagation for all regions within, nears and beyond the horizon. Theoretical derivations are presented in Part I. Part II gives a comparison of the theory with experiments, showing a fairly good agreement between them."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Harmful multipath distortion on high-frequency facsimile services and telegraphic services operating at high speeds occurs when the received signal is composed of two or more components arriving by different modes over the same great-circle path with comparable intensities, but having travel times which differ by an amount equal to an appreciable fraction of the duration of a signal element. The dependence of multipath distortion on the relationship of the operating frequency to the MUF is discussed and a new term, the multipath reduction factor (MRF), is introduced which permits calculation in terms of the MUF of the lowest frequency which can be used to provide a specified measure of protection against multipath distortion. The MRF has a marked path-length dependence and is calculated as a function of path length for representative values of the other parameters involved by making use of an ionospheric model. It is then shown how the MRF can be used in connection with world-wide MUF prediction material to determine the minimum number of frequencies which must be assigned to a high-frequency communication service of continuous availability operating at high speed. Some comparisons with observations are discussed, and finally conclusions are drawn concerning manner of operation and choice of operating frequencies to reduce or to eliminate harmful multipath distortion."
"This report describes the effect of terrain and meteorological conditions on the height-gain pattern of 3.2-cm radio waves over various short transmission paths. Equivalent reflection coefficients are obtained and potential reflection areas are investigated. A study of the time variations in the height of nulls in the signal strength pattern is made and the relationship between movement of the nulls and the corresponding refractive index distribution is considered."
"The problem of determining the electron densities in theE-region of the ionosphere is approached by using 6-mc pulse transmissions from a rocket to several ground receiving stations. A logical and complete development, using dyadic techniques, is given for obtaining the propagation constant of the dissipative, anisotropic ionosphere. Special cases of the magneto-ionic formulas are given, and comparison of the ionosphere with a distributed-constant transmission line is made. In a nondissipative ionosphere, formulas are developed establishing the relationship between the effective electron density and the relative transmission delay of the 6-mc pulse. A description of the University of Utah's vertical incidence experiment is given in which a 6-mc pulse from an airborne transmitter is received simultaneously at several ground receiving stations. The relative 6-mc time-delay data from three Aerobee high-altitude rockets launched from Holloman Air Development Center on July 1, 1953, November 3, 1953, and June 13, 1956, were obtained and, from these, electron density was calculated. Curves showing the profile of electron density as a function of altitude as calculated both during the rocket ascent and descent are presented. The curves indicate a general increase of electron density throughout theE- region, rising from nearly zero at 85 km to a maximum of about2 \\times 10^{11}electrons/m3. The maximum altitude attained by the rockets allowed exploration up to 137 km above sea level."
"This paper considers the bandwidth characteristics of the propagating medium in tropospheric beyond-the-horizon propagation. To study this problem, a frequency-sweep experiment was performed over a 171-mile experimental circuit. A 4.11-kmc transmitter was frequency modulated at a 1000-cps rate over a 20-mc band. The receiver was swept nonsynchronously over the same band at a 30-cps rate. The resultant pulses were displayed on an oscillograph and photographed at the rate of one frame every two seconds. The experiment used a 28-foot transmitting antenna and 8-, 28- and 60-foot receiving antennas. Sequences of selected sweep-frequency pictures are shown for various antenna combinations and transmission conditions. The bandwidths from the experiment are compared with a calculation based on the common volume geometry. Photographs of signals received simultaneously from a twin-feed horizontal diversity system are also shown and discussed."
"The traveling-wave modes associated with an infinite, periodic structure are considered. An approximate equation for the propagation constants of these modes is derived through the use of Fourier analysis and an approximate application of the reaction concept. In the homogeneous case considered, it is found that two dominant modes may exist: an attenuated fundamental mode representing a perturbation of the dominant mode of a closed rectangular waveguide, and an unattenuated surface wave, which is similar to the wave associated with a corrugated surface waveguide. By means of the appropriate variation of physical parameters, including the slot length and spacing, essentially independent control of the attenuation constant and phase velocity of the fundamental mode is possible over a wide range. Typical curves of the propagation constant in terms of these parameters are given, and the results of experimental measurements are shown to be in close agreement with the theory."
"The purpose of this paper is to generalize the solutions of some spherically symmetric lens and lens-reflector problems recently treated by Kay. The original problem was to find a variable-index structure, with a point source at its surface or at infinity, which would produce a beam of finite angular width, having a prescribed variation of intensity with angle. It is shown that a prescribed exit beam can be obtained from a point source at any given distance from the lens, and that the index of refraction may be specified more or less arbitrarily in the outer part of the lens. A special case is solved in terms of tabulated functions."
"Formulas for certain radiation properties of a spherical antenna are derived theoretically. The antenna, which consists of a spherical medium, such as ferrite, with a thin wire loop embedded just below the surface in an equatorial plane, is driven by a slice generator. For the spherical medium, the permeabilityK_{m}and the dielectric constantK_{e}are assumed to be scalars and, in general, complex. The solutions are facilitated through the expansion of the fields in terms of characteristic orthogonal spherical vector wave functions. The properties for which formulas are derived are current distribution, input impedance, input power, radiated power, power loss in the spherical medium, and the efficiency of the antenna. For radiation resistance, not only the general case formula but also the formula for electrically small antennas is given, and the difference between these formulas, for media assumed lossless, is shown graphically."
"The real part of either the impedance or the admittance of dipoles of arbitrary size and shape can be computed rigorously without solving a boundary value problem of a partial differential equation. In analogy to a well-known method of potential theory, fields of standing waves can be generated by integrals over current filaments so that for a given frequency there exist dipole shaped surfaces normal to the electric field surrounded by distant surfaces of vanishing electric field strength. Boundaries of perfect conductors may be supposed to coincide with a dipole shaped surface and a distant closed surface. The transients of such fields of standing waves are intimately related to the steady state of the free radiating dipole, since, before the first waves reflected from the distant enclosure have come back, the dipole cannot know whether or not it is enclosed. Corresponding to the type of current filament, either the resistance, or the conductance, of the radiating dipole can be calculated by direct integrations, while the shape of the dipole is determined by an ordinary differential equation of first order. As an example, we compute a family of dipoles that all have the same conductanceG=(254 \\Omega)^{-1}and a length2hbetween limits\\lambda/2\\leq 2h\\leq 1.36\\lambda/2."
"The effects of random manufacturing errors on polar diagrams of antennas are analyzed in terms of the radius of correlation and mean square magnitude of the errors. The basis of the method is the Wiener-Khintchine theorem. Approximate general formulas are given for the reduction in gain and lowest probable sidelobe level. The implications of the theory are discussed."
"In this paper, a new variational formulation for a single impedance parameter of anm-antenna system is presented. This formulation enables one to determine any self impedanceZ_{ii}, one at a time, merely by exciting antennaialone and leaving all the other antennas open circuited. For determining any mutual impedanceZ_{ij}, only two independent excitations, one the same as that used for determiningZ_{ii}and the other for determiningZ_{jj}, are required. Thus, if all them(m+1)/2impedance are required, onlymindependent excitation conditions are needed. In contrast to this, the formulation available in the literature is based onm(m+1)/2independent excitation conditions. Because of a reduced number of excitation conditions and the way they are assumed, the physical nature of the problem is made simpler and easier to comprehend. Such comprehension helps considerably in the choice of trial current distributions for a specific application. Two methods of evaluating the successive higher-order approximations are also given. One is based upon an orthogonalization process, and the other is based upon the successive inversion of matrices. In the evaluation of a certain order approximation, both methods have the advantage of utilizing all the work already done for the lower-order approximations; and at the same time, additional work required is considerably reduced. It is believed that the formulation, as well as the two methods of successive approximations, will also be useful in other problems."
"A microwave network approach is employed for the description and analysis of leaky-wave antennas. This approach is based on a transverse resonance procedure which yields the complex propagation constants for the leaky waves. A perturbation technique is then applied to the resonance equation to obtain results in simple and practical form. These procedures are illustrated by application to a number of practical leaky rectangular waveguide structures. Very good agreement is obtained between the theoretical results and the measured values."
"This paper describes the design and the measured performance of a large, flat antenna consisting of an inductive grid spaced over a conducting surface. The analysis employs the transverse-resonance method to determine the radiating properties of the structure. This analytical technique is shown to predict very accurately the amplitude and phase of the illumination along the aperture of the antenna. An antenna was built with an 18- by 24-inch aperture and tested over the frequency band from 7-to-13 kmc. The results of these tests confirm the theoretical predictions in every detail. A pencil beam from the antenna scans in the H-plane (perpendicular to the antenna) from20\\degto60\\degfrom the normal to the aperture as the frequency changes from 7-to-13 kmc. The H-plane beamwidth remains virtually constant over most of this band. The first H-plane sidelobe or shoulder is at least 29 db below the main lobe from 7-to-10 kmc, and at least 23 db below from 10-to-13 kmc. All H-plane sidelobes beyond three or four beamwidths on either side of the main lobe are at least 40 db below the main lobe everywhere in the 7-to-13 kmc band. At the design frequency the measured pattern agrees with the theoretical pattern within a fraction of a db down to 40 db below the peak of the main lobe, even though the gain of the antenna at this frequency is only 33 db."
"The properties of a dipole antenna coupled electromagnetically to a two-wire transmission line are studied experimentally. It is found that the coupling of the antenna to the transmission line can be maximized by a proper choice of 1) the angular position of the antenna with respect to the transmission line, 2) the length of the antenna, and 3) the separation of the antenna from the transmission line. The effect of the spacing between the wires of the transmission line on the optimum parameters is investigated. It is found that the optimum angular position of the antenna is not noticeably altered if, instead of a single antenna, an array of properly located antennas is used as the load. The advantage of an antenna array built on this coupling principle is discussed."
"A method is given for the determination of the equation of a ray path in a known ionosphere where there axe no horizontal gradients. It can partially take into account the effects of the magnetic field of the earth. The method was applied to an oblique path between Ottawa and Slough (5300 km) to determine certain properties of the one-hop mode. From this it is shown that at times one hop direct ray propagation is possible over this path."
"The excitation of the lowest TM surface wave in grounded dielectric slab by a terminated parallel plate waveguide is discussed. The ground plane is the continuation of the lower plate of the waveguide and the infinite dielectric slab is partially filling the waveguide. The thickness of the slab, the height of the parallel plate waveguide, and the frequency are such that only the lowest slow wave can propagate in the partially filled waveguide and the grounded dielectric slab. The Fourier transform of the field scattered by the termination of the upper plate of the waveguide is found by means of the Wiener-Hopf technique and the far fields obtained by the method of steepest descents. The percentage of power reflected back into the waveguide, of power transmitted to the surface wave in the slab, and of power radiated into the open space are plotted vs the thickness of the slab for different heights of the waveguide and\\epsilon=2.49. This method of excitation is found to be very efficient. If the dimensions of the waveguide and the slab remain within a considerably wide range, the efficiency obtained for a given frequency is very close to the optimum. Therefore, the adjustments for maximum efficiency are not critical."
"Circularly polarized unidirectional radiation, over a bandwidth which is at the discretion of the designer, is obtainable with a single antenna. The antenna is constructed by wrapping balanced equiangular spiral arms on a conical surface. The non-planar structure retains the frequency-independent qualifies of the planar models, and, in addition, provides a single lobe radiation pattern off the apex of the cone. Practical antennas have been constructed with radiation patterns and input impedance essentially constant over bandwidths greater than 12 to 1 and there is no reason to assume that these cannot be readily extended to more than 20 or 30 to 1."
"In conventional Yagi design, optimum performance requires separate adjustments in a number of parameters-the array length and the height, diameter, and spacing of the directors and reflectors. By introducing the notion of a surface wave traveling along the array, it is possible to demonstrate experimentally the interrelationship between these parameters. With this, the gain then depends only on the phase velocity of the surface wave (which is a function of the height, diameter, and spacing of the directors) and on the choice of the reflector. Thus, maximum gain for a given array length, for any director spacing less than0.5 \\lambda, can be obtained by suitable variation of the parameters to yield the desired phase velocity. A design procedure that provides maximum gain for a given array length is presented."
"Using an antenna system whose aperture could be varied in four-foot steps between 4 and 24 feet, aperture-to-medium coupling loss measurements have been made on a 2720-msec, 216- mile path. These measurements reveal an intrinsic variability in the scattering mechanism which is not accounted for in most current theories. Diversity and fading-rate measurements were also made. A simple mathematical model of the diffracted field yields calculated values of the normal component of the wind which agree well with the measured wind. Calculated and measured values of fading rate are also seen to be in good agreement. An estimate is made of the turbulent wind velocity."
"Surface waves have been applied recently to the study of end-fire arrays. An important step in the theory of surface-wave antennas is the calculation of the local phase velocity of the surface wave from the antenna geometry. While experimental work has been done along this line, no adequate theoretical solution seems to be available. In this report, a mathematical procedure is presented for obtaining an approximate value of the phase velocity for long end-fire uniform dipole arrays, as a function of the antenna geometry. Results have been reported for a number of geometrical parameters and curves plotted to facilitate the analysis and design of arrays. The results have been compared with experimental measurements and an explanation has been given for the discrepancies found; finally, a criterion for correcting the results has been outlined."
"Some general theorems of network theory are studied in their relation to other fields of linear physics. It is pointed out that general laws of the same character hold for the dissipative linear systems (thermodynamic systems with small departures from equilibrium). Another class of linear systems which one meets in scattering problems can also be related to network theory, but in a different way. For an example in which both the theory of dissipative and of scattering systems applies, the results of the two approaches are compared. Finally, results are mentioned on almost equivalent networks which have a bearing on the transition from the reversible behavior of the atomistic constituents of matter to the irreversible behavior of matter in bulk."
"The problem of the accurate determination of the total electromagnetic field produced by a current distribution on a circular disc type aperture is examined. For comparison of the near and Fresnel region solutions, an exact Maxwellian integral is used as the starting point. Aperture and space coordinates are separated by the use of Bessel function addition theorems, allowing the field to be expressed as a sum of terms containing radial and angular integrals. The radial integrals involve only the disc (aperture) distribution and coordinates while the angular integrals involve only the elevation angle. The distance from origin appears implicitly in the series coefficients. These integrals are suitable for high speed computations and have been evaluated for a number of cases. The results are compared with the small angle and general Fresnel formula values for various observation angles, distances from the aperture, and aperture distributions."
"This paper describes the results of a theoretical and experimental study of the finite conical antenna. The antenna consists of a perfectly-conducting cone of finite length excited at its tip by a linear element. The radiation patterns and radiation resistance have been calculated by talking the current distribution on the linear element to be sinusoidal and approximating the current distribution on the finite cone with that of an infinite cone. Calculated and measured radiation patterns are found to be in good agreement. The dependence of beamwidth, beam tilt, and side-lobe level on the antenna dimensions is discussed. A simple interpretation of the patterns in terms of the superposition of a wave radiated directly from the linear element (in the presence of the infinite cone) and a wave diffracted from the edge of the cone is pointed out. Measured values of the input VSWR (voltage standing-wave ratio) are presented and discussed."
"It is pointed out that numerical solutions of electromagnetic boundary-value problems deserve to receive greater emphasis, particularly those arising in practical applications. Numerical methods of solution can also be of great help in theoretical studies where suitable analytical solutions are difficult to obtain. By using a certain fundamental integral equation for the electromagnetic field, it is shown that many problems can be reduced to the solution of standard types of integral equations for which numerical techniques of solution already exist."
"A study of numerical integration methods suitable for antenna pattern calculations was conducted for the purpose of determining which method provides a given accuracy with the greatest economy. The accuracy for a given method depends on the number of points at which the integrand is calculated, while the cost for a given number of points depends on the complexity of the method. This paper discusses the general principles of numerical integration, and outlines four methods in detail. The results of applying these methods on a digital computer to a simple cosine distribution are presented and analyzed. The relation of these results to those obtained for a pattern integral having a nonlinear phase function is discussed. The Gaussian quadratures are shown to have, in general, the highest degree of precision and lowest cost, while Filon's method is preferable when integrals having a linear phase function are calculated over a large range of pattern angle. The procedure for applying these methods to double numerical integration is outlined."
"Booker has shown that Babinet's principle, properly extended to electromagnetic fields, leads to a simple relation between the impedances of two planar complementary structures. A relation, which generalizes this result, is found between the impedance matrices of two complementaryn-terminal structures. This relation is applied to the particularn-terminal structures havingn-fold symmetry and to those that are also self-complementary. In the latter case the impedance matrix is real and entirely determined by the number of terminals. It is therefore independent of the exact shape of the elements composing the structure and of the frequency. By connecting in groups the terminals of such a structure various impedance levels, all frequency independent and real, may be achieved. Structures having their terminal pairs in different locations in the plane are also considered. A self-complementary two-port structure is found to be equivalent, from the impedance point of view, to a length of lossy transmission line having a characteristic impedance of60\\piohms."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This paper concerns the attenuation and phase characteristics of plasmas and, in particular, the electromagnetic properties of high-temperature air. It is shown that by a suitable normalization of the parameters thee-mproperties of plasmas may be universally represented in convenient form in either the complex dielectric coefficient plane or the complex propagation constant plane."
"The triple quotation marks in the title and elsewhere in this paper indicate that the enclosed words are used to denote the wave types enumerated in Table L The purpose of the paper is to call attention to the fact that as a group these wave types have no important physical properties in common. Calling these wave types by the same name, even with qualifying adjectives, encourages one to assume that the most significant physical properties of one wave type are shared by other wave types. This has caused, and will continue to cause, we believe, serious misunderstandings. It is strongly urged that this loose use of words be abandoned. Another solution is possible. We could wait until everyone realizes that the term '\"surface waves'\" has become devoid of significant meaning and that it is equivalent to just \"that thing.\""
"This paper deals with the diffraction of a plane electromagnetic wave incident on a variable impedance half-plane, at right angles to the edge. The problem is dealt with by a method closely related to separation of variables in parabolic coordinates. A class of solutions of the wave equation is obtained in this manner; the boundary conditions which may then be imposed on the half-plane are investigated. These boundary conditions can be chosen in such a way as to permit arbitrary values of reflection and transmission coefficients for the half-plane far away from the edge. The dependence of the diffraction pattern on these coefficients will be discussed."
"The field on the axis behind a funnel-shaped screen with a circular aperture, on which a plane electromagnetic wave is incident along the axis, is computed by means of an approximate method proposed previously by the author for the case of short wavelengths. The deviation from plane-screen diffraction and the dependence on the angle\\phi_{0}defining the shape of the funnel is given for both concave-side and convex-side incidence. Simple closed form results are obtained."
"THREE model radar ranges have been constructed to measure the scattering cross-section of models. The first of these is a 10-m\\musec pulse radar operating at a frequency of 35 kmc. The second, operating at the same frequency, is a CW balanced hybridTsystem. The third, at 8.75 kmc, has two modes of operation. In one it operates as a simple CW balanced hybridTsystem and in the other, which is inherently more stable, it uses low frequency modulation to achieve a range resolution of about 7 feet. As a combined facility, with various sizes of model, we can study the back-scatter cross-section of simple models, for any polarization, over an effective wavelength range of at least 40 to 1. The minimum detectable cross-section is about 45 db below a square wavelength. Back-scatter measurements have been made on a variety of simple shapes, Results were presented on metal cones and toroids."
"A method for solving problems of plane pulse diffraction by a perfectly conducting wedge is described. The method is extended to give results when a conductive half-plane lies on the surface between two distinct isotropic media of different dielectric properties."
"A VERTICAL electric dipole in the plane interface between two semi-infinite homogeneous dielectric media is switched on att = 0. The resulting electromagnetic field is determined by a new method based on a new representation of the field of a point source as the superposition of the fields of line sources. The field of a line dipole is found by using, first, the conical flow transformation, and then a Jonkowski transformation which leads to a function-theoretic problem of the Riemann-Hilbert type. This problem is solved explicitly and an explicit expression is obtained for the point dipole field at points of the interface. The results are finally compared with those of others."
"Experimental results are given for backscattering cross sections of cones, prolate spheroids, and oblate spheroids. A brief resume is given first of the image-plane technique used in measuring cross sections. Calibration data show that for cross sections of the order of spheres of 3-inch diameter the attainable accuracy is better than 0.5 db. Cross-section data for various aspects of the targets are compared with geometrical optics cross sections and those obtained by various other theoretical procedures. Some interpretation of the observed phenomena is made in terms of high-frequency approximation techniques."
"A recent method of the authors is applied to the case of scalar scattering by a perfectly reflecting elliptic cylinder illuminated by waves from a line source parallel to the axis of the cylinder. The surface distribution in the shadow zone is calculated and the \"creeping wave\" representation for the scattered field in the shadow zone is derived. It is shown that the results are applicable if and only ifR_{0\\omega}\\\\gg 1, whereR_{0}is the smallest radius of curvature on the cylinder and\\omegais the wave number."
"The kernels of the integral equations for scalar diffraction by strips and disks are special cases of a kernel connected with the generalized axially symmetrical wave equation. A transformation of this kernel enables the original singular integral equations to be reduced to Fredholm integral equations of the second kind. These can be solved asymptotically at high frequencies. Applications are made to diffraction by strips and disks with incident waves of arbitrary form. Special results involving diffraction of plane waves are recovered from the general formulas."
"The back scattering of short plane-wave harmonic pulses incident on a perfectly conducting sphere is investigated for both near and far fields. The pulse return is expressed in terms of the inverse Laplace transform of the CW back-scattered field. The inverse transform is calculated for the initial part of the pulse return using a Tauberian theorem. The latter part of the pulse return is given exactly in terms of residues representing the natural oscillations of the spheres. This residue expression converges rapidly for smallkaorkaof the order of 1. However, forka\\gg1, the particular residue series is slowly convergent, but the terms which are slowly convergent can again be summed using methods of contour integration to give the CW creeping waves plus transients. Calculations of the pulse return for the caseka = 1, indicates that there is significant tail to the pulse return in the \"resonance\" region. For very largeka, the tail of the pulse return is the order of1/kaof the head. In the high frequency limit there is no pulse distortion."
"The decay exponents and diffraction coefficients for a cylindrical surface of nonconstant curvature are computed by two methods which yield the same results. The results consist of leading terms which depend upon the curvature of the surface and corrections which depend upon the derivative of the curvature. The leading terms coincide with those found previously. With these corrections, the geometric theory of diffraction can be used at longer wavelengths than before. In the first method the solution for diffraction by an elliptic cylinder is expanded asymptotically for wavelengths small compared to the cylinder dimensions. From the expansion the decay exponents and diffraction coefficients are determined. They are then expressed in terms of the curvature and its derivative, and in this form they are assumed to apply to a cylinder of arbitrary convex cross section. This assumption is verified by comparison with the corresponding results for a parabolic cylinder. Then the same results are obtained by asymptotically solving the integral equation for the field on a cylinder of arbitrary convex cross section."
"It is emphasized that rather flexible general solutions of the scalar wave equation formed by integrating a separable solution over a separation \"constant\" are of direct application in certain boundary value problems if an appropriate infinite integral transform is available. The theory, on these lines, of the diffraction of a scalar plane wave in turn by a circular cylinder, a sphere, and a parabolic cylinder is briefly indicated."
"The problems of the diffraction of scalar waves by a circular aperture in a perfectly soft, and in a perfectly rigid, infinite, planar screen are treated. New integral representations of the solution are presented which have the virtue of automatically satisfying the time-reduced wave equation, the radiation condition and the boundary conditions. The unknown functions appearing in these representations are shown to satisfy Fredholm-type integral equations of the second kind which yield, after iteration, accurate, approximate solutions whenka(the product of the wave number and the aperture radius) is sufficiently small. These approximate solutions are in turn employed to calculate the aperture fields, the far fields, the transmission coefficients, and the edge behaviors. The results are in complete agreement with known results and for some of these quantities they are more accurate in that higher powers ofkaare included. Finally, in the case of the rigid screen problem, for all values ofka, we determine the form of the edge behavior and give a simple proof of the unique existence of the solution."
"It is my pleasure to welcome you on behalf of URSI to the Electromagnetic Wave Theory Symposium. This is, as you know, the third in the series of symposia on this topic initiated by Commission VI of the International Scientific Radio Union. The subjects chosen for the symposium stem from the discussions held at the last General Assembly in Boulder, CO, USA. The central problem in the theory of scattering and diffraction in the form of a boundary value problem remains that of finding a methodology for closing the gap between the low-frequency and highfrequency asymptotic representations of solutions. In fact, there even remains the matter of obtaining the high-frequency representation in a direct manner from the general formulation of the solution, rather than by the semi-heuristic methods now being employed for bodies other than the cylinder and the sphere. We hope that the results presented at this meeting will show some progress toward resolving this very difficult problem."
"The wedge waveguide consists of a circular cylinder, a cross section of which has a sector occupied by a metal wedge. As the wedge angle approaches zero the wedge waveguide becomes a septate waveguide. The presence of the wedge permits a mode of lower cutoff frequency than the circular H1.1mode to propagate for a given-diameter waveguide, and the transverse fields associated with this mode become infinite at the tip of the wedge. Because of this, the standard impedance condition, used to calculate the flow of power into the waveguide walls, yields a coupled mode which does not satisfy the Meixner edge condition. This in turn yields extremely high values for the ohmic losses near the tip of the wedge and, as the wedge angle approaches zero, the integrals involved in calculating these losses fail to converge. In the present paper the results of a careful analysis (presented in an earlier paper) of the behaviour of fields near the tip of a metal wedge are presented. The surface impedance condition is modified to agree with this analysis and used to calculate the attenuation constant of wedge waveguides. Graphs of attenuation constant vs frequency and vs wedge angle are presented for the wedge waveguide operating in its lowest mode. The results of an experimental determination of the attenuation constant are also presented and found to be in agreement with the calculated value. The losses do not become large as the wedge angle is allowed to approach zero and the attenuation constant of the septate waveguide compares favorably with that of standard waveguides."
"The problem of the interaction of electromagnetic radiation with nonuniform surfaces (terrain, roadways, etc.) is of interest for predicting the apparent temperature of radiometers or radio telescopes. In this paper, the interaction is described by the differential scattering coefficients of the surface, in terms of which one may express such parameters of the surface as the radar cross section, the absorption coefficient, the albedo, etc. By making use of the reciprocity properties of the differential scattering coefficients, Kirchhoff's radiation law is derived in its most general form, which takes account of both the angular dependence and the polarization properties of the emitted radiation. Thus, the emissivity of the surface can also be expressed in terms of the scattering coefficients. General formulas for apparent surface temperature are obtained and are used to calculate the apparent temperature of an asphalt roadway and a vegetation-covered surface. The predicted temperatures are found to be in reasonably good agreement with measurements of Britt, Tolbert and Straiton at 4.3 mm wavelength."
"Some theorems on the transmission coefficient from a transmitting to a receiving system will be presented. They can be considered as very general theorems in physics, since they can be applied to fields other than electromagnetic theory, such as wave mechanics and fluid mechanics. In electromagnetics they have been applied to the theory of surface waves and to propagation problems, particularly tropospheric scatter propagation."
"A new simple operational method for the determination of the diffracted far field for wedges with impedance boundary conditions is presented. The exterior angle of the wedge is2\\pi-\\pi/2n, wherenis an integer. The excitation may be either an incident plane wave or a line source. The method is described in detail for the case of an absorbing wedge with a line source located at the tip. Several examples are given to illustrate the method. It is also shown that the method can be applied directly to the classical problem of perfectly conducting wedges."
"Both the continuous-wave solution and the pulse solution of the Sommerfeld problem can be represented as multiple integrals which describe cooperating contributions propagated along continuous sets of trajectories. The latter consist of a number of rectilinear sections that connect the transmitter and receiver. The propagation velocity along each section is in accordance with the corresponding medium. The velocity along section lying in the earth's surface is that of the well-known surface wave. Transient phenomena at the receiver start after the arrival of a main pulse along the trajectory connecting the transmitter and the receiver in accordance with ordinary geometric optics, ignoring surface-wave effects. Pulses along trajectories containing a surface-wave section may arrive earlier; however, their joint contributions then cancel each other until the arrival of the main pulse."
"The transmission characteristics of a corrugated guide are analyzed under the assumption that the guide wavelength is always much greater than the \"corrugation constant\" (D_{1}+D_{2}). The corrugated guide is, therefore, replaced by a quasi-homogeneous but anisotropic medium whose dielectric constant and permeability are represented by tensors. It turns out that the corrugated guide behaves much like the Goubau guide if the corrugation depth is small with respect to the wavelength. Corresponding to the influence of the dielectric on the Gouban guide, increasing depth of the corrugations increases also, on this guide, the attenuation of the waves, decreases the phase velocity, and increases the field concentration around the guide accordingly. As a rule, however, the corrugated guide acts as a low pass whose pass bands are about atk\\dot0.5 < d/\\lambda_{0}<(0.25+k\\dot0.5)and whose stop bands are about at(0.25+k\\dot0.5) < d/\\lambda_{0} < 0.5(1 + k)(k=0, 1, 2, . . . , d=corrugation depth,\\lambda_{0}=wavelength of a plane wave in space). Since, in the case of long radio waves, parallel building fronts and mountain ranges may be thought of as corrugated guides, one of the results of the paper is the fact that the propagation of waves around the earth cannot only be considerably curbed by building fronts and mountain ranges, but can even be suppressed altogether."
"In approaching a discussion of this matter, it is most important to ensure general agreement about the particular features that characterize the so-called surface wave. An attempt has been made to formulate in simple and unambiguous terms a definition of this form of wave, distinguishing it from the various other waves known to be associated with an interface between two different media. It is maintained that there are really two closely allied aspects of the problem of surface wave propagation, one of which is more particularly concerned with launching the wave from a given aerial over the surface and the other with the capabilities of that surface in supporting such a wave. The present paper deals with the latter consideration in relation to surfaces slightly curved in the direction of the propagation of the wave. Recognizing the evanescent character of the surface wave field distribution over the equiphase surfaces and the important part played by the inclination of these surfaces with the normal to the interface when power is transferred across it, a method is discussed of calculating the radiation which arises when a wave of this kind circulates around a highly reactive supporting surface of cylindrical form. It is concluded that when the surface has a finite loss there will be a particular radius of curvature for which no power is transferred across the interface."
"Much attention has been paid in recent years to expansions in the form,u = e^{ikL} \\Sum' \\min{\\nu} \\frac{A_{\\nu}}{(ik)^{\\nu}}(1) By means of these expansions many problems of diffraction have been investigated. Though in many particular cases, it has been found that the series of this form are the asymptotic ones, our present knowledge concerning the whole family of solutions admitting asymptotic expansions is still unsatisfactory. From among recent works on this subject the author will mention a very interesting one concerning expansions of a similar type."
"In view of the current theoretical and experimental interest in electromagnetic surface waves, several sessions were devoted to this subject. In the present context, surface waves are regarded as any wave which glides along an interface between dissimilar media. With this in mind, active workers in the field were invited to submit papers representative of current research in this general area. Following the sessions, a round-table discussion was held. The participants were chosen from the surface wave authors. The topics considered were: 1) influence of curvature; 2) implications of impedance boundary conditions; and 3) spatial modulation of the surface properties. No attempt was made at this time to set up a classification of surface wave types. The discussion, however, provided an excellent opportunity to air various viewpoints in the field. For the next General Assembly of URSI, to be held in London in 1960, a summary report on the properties and classification of surface waves is to be prepared. Much of the material presented at the symposium is to be distilled and issued as a working document for distribution at the meeting."
"This paper is concerned with the construction and the experimental test of a stepped zone mirror, whose theory has been previously developed. According to the theory, this mirror is free from spherical aberration for any value of the angular aperture and at the same time is corrected for coma. The only monochromatic aberration which cannot be eliminated is astigmatism. A model of the mirror has been built to operate with\\lambda=3.2cm. The focal length is 86.4 cm and the angular aperture120\\deg. The test has given results in perfect agreement with the theory within a total field of about40\\deg. Special astigmatic receivers have been designed and built to eliminate the effect of the astigmatism. It is believed that the mirror may be used as a fixed antenna for radio astronomy."
"An outline is given of a method of simulating the resolving power of large radio telescopes by a process of synthesis, in which use is made of measurements taken with smaller structures arranged in different configurations. The method has been applied to the construction of some large radio telescopes at Cambridge."
"The design of surface wave launchers is examined and it is shown that the efficiency of a launcher of finite size can approach arbitrarily near to 100 per cent. For a given size of launcher, there is however a limit to the efficiency above which an increase is obtained only at the expense of frequency bandwidth. Launchers with efficiencies above this limit are classed as \"super-efficient\" by analogy with \"super-gain\" aerials. A general solution for an end-fire launcher is also given."
"In wave propagation along plane or cylindrical interfaces a distinction is made between truly guided waves (surface waves) and partially guided waves (radiating waves). When dissipation losses are involved, surface waves no longer represent the asymptotic field near the interfaces at large distances from the source. In order to separate them from the total field it is necessary to have a criterion for radiating waves which are free of any surface wave components. Such a criterion exists in the form of orthogonality relations which are the mathematical formulation of the concept that an ideal antenna which excites only a surface wave should not receive a radiating wave."
"An analysis is carried out of the field radiated by a dipole in an arbitrary medium separated from others by parallel plane interfaces. The resulting solution in the form of a contour integral is then examined in relation to the intrinsic properties of the media involved and the position of the antenna. The solution is obtained by splitting the integral into pole residues and branch-cut-integral; the latter is evaluated by developing it into a suitable asymptotic series. It is shown that depending on conditions modal-type propagation can take place between the parallel interfaces in addition to radiation field. Distinction is drawn between proper modes, quasimodes, surface waves, leaky waves and radiation field. All these waves are needed in the complete description of the field, and their relative intensities are evaluated. Extreme cases are considered in which the media involved pass into good conductors on one hand and perfect dielectrics on the other. Surface waves appear as a particular case of the more general problem considered (or as a part of the solution) and they form just one piece of a complete jig-saw, though under certain specifically simple conditions these waves appear to have some rather unique properties. In general (with the exception of perfectly conducting tubular waveguides) it is shown that no mode can exist on its own but rather in conjunction with other modes (including surface waves) and the radiation field."
"KIRCHHOFF'S theory for the solution of diffraction problems has been generalized to include the case of conical obstacles and energy incident at oblique incidence."
"The well-known problem of the field produced by a magnetic line dipole on the surface of a lossy conductor is investigated. Suppose\\omegais the frequency of the wave,\\muthe magnetic permeability, and\\sigmathe conductivity of the conductor. IfMis the absolute value of the ratio of the actual field to the free space field, then it is found thatMhas a maximum value 1.55 at a distancerfrom the line dipole given byr = 0.88\\sigma(\\omega^{2}c\\mu)^{-1}."
"The paper is divided into four sections, each dealing with a specific aspect of the current research program in the Department of Electrical Engineering at Sheffield University. Section I deals with the radiation from a cylindrical surface-wave resonator. Section II presents some numerical results obtained by an electronic computer of the guide-wavelength/dielectric constant relationship for theEH_{11}mode on a dielectric rod. Section III deals with the coupling between two adjacent surface waveguides. Parallel dielectric sheets and parallel rods are both discussed theoretically. Section IV presents the theory of a new form of surface-wave launching antenna, including an evaluation of its hunching efficiency."
"This paper presents the formal aspects of an analysis of the electromagnetic behavior of wedge and cone surfaces with a linearly varying surface impedance. Alternative field representations are obtained and their utility is described. Special attention is given to reactive surfaces which can support a new type of surface wave. This surface wave is of interest for an analysis of surface wave antennas with a linear reactance taper."
"An array of parallel dielectric plates of uniform thickness and separation constitutes an anisotropic medium which is useful as a polarizer. Reflections can be minimized by the use of quarter-wave steps at the two faces. A weather protecting skin is also of practical interest. The phase shifts at the boundary discontinuities form the subject of this paper. While in some instances these phase shifts are of marginal significance, nevertheless they cannot be ignored in the design of a polarizer of the highest performance, or if the use of materials having a high dielectric constant is considered. The scattering coefficients are determined by the variational technique of Brown and Collin using an artificial short. Their method is extended to each of the three types of discontinuity enumerated above. A cosine series of two terms has been used as a trial function. Formulas have been developed to simplify the usual Weissfloch calculation."
"The problem considered is that of the discontinuity at the transverse plane separating two regions of a dissipationless uniform waveguide, one isotropic, the other anisotropic. The integral equation for this discontinuity is formulated in terms of the \"four-vector\" guides modes which propagate in the two regions. Variational expressions based on this integral equation are then given for the scattering coefficients which describe the effect of the junction on the propagating modes of the two regions. These variational expressions are then employed to obtain numerical results for the scattering coefficients at the transverse plane separating two regions of a rectangular waveguide, one empty, the other filled with a transversely magnetized dissipationless ferrite. These numerical results are found to agree reasonably well with those obtained from an alternative solution to this problem given by Sharpe and Heim."
"Maxwell's equations for a medium in which the \"dielectric constant\" is a slowly-varying random function of position are reduced to a scalar Helmholtz equation. The Helmholtz equation defines the electromagnetic field components as linear stochastic processes in the random refractive index. Spectral representations for the electromagnetic field components and the refractive index are then introduced, and the former is expressed in terms of a convolution of the latter. The relation between the spectral representations is found explicitly for the case when the average phase is constant. The case when a source is present is next considered. The inhomogeneous Helmholtz equation is expressed as a singular Fredholm integral equation whose kernel involves the Green's function for the homogeneous medium and the random refractive index. The conditions on the correlation function of the refractive index such that the Neumann series solution converges in the mean-square sense are investigated."
"The problem of a stratified lossy plasma subjected to a steady magnetic field is considered. The plasma consists of (m) homogeneous layers with arbitrary thicknesses. An arbitrarily polarized plane wave originating in the free space is incident normally on the plasma. Expressions are derived relating the components of the reflected wave and the transmitted wave to the incident wave. The analyses are carried out for the cases when there is no coupling between the ordinary and the extraordinary waves at the interfaces, i.e., when the steady magnetic field is either in the plane of the interface or perpendicular to it. The derived results are written in form suitable for digital machine calculations."
"We consider the scattering of plane electromagnetic waves by parallel, coplanar, arbitrary cylinders distributed essentially as in a \"one-dimensional liquid\" of elastic objects. Green's function methods are used to generalize and extend results obtained previously by separations of variables for circular cylinders. Taking into account coherent multiple scattering, we obtain a general form for the coherent field and a corresponding approximation for the incoherent scattering. The field depends critically on the normalized difference between the average and minimum separations of scatterer centers; say ond = (b_{av}-b_{min})/b_{av}which equals the relative \"elbow room\" per scatterer. Ifd=0, then the distribution is periodic and the results reduce to those for the general grating; thus the ranged \\approx 0corresponds to the quasi-periodic case. Similarly, at the other limitd\\rightarrow1, the results reduce to those for the random \"rare gas\" case, and the ranged \\approx 1may be called quasi-random. Thus, as the parameterdis varied from 1 to 0 (or as the distribution of scatterers is \"compressed\"), the result exhibit successively the effects expected for gaseous, liquid, and crystalline distributions."
"The propagation along a finite helix is examined by using a propagation constant which was determined by Sensiper for the infinite helix. By utilizing the Hansen and Woodyard condition, the bandwidth variation with the dimensions of the helix is obtained. It is shown that for a pitch angle\\psiequal to13\\deg, the normally accepted bandwidth of0.77 < C_{\\lambda} < 1.25, whereC_{\\lambda}is the circumference in terms of free-space wavelengths, is applicable only to antennas up to about two wavelengths long. A curve showing the bandwidth as a function of length has been computed, and the shape of this curve has been confirmed experimentally. Good patterns and axial ratio with sidelobe levels no greater than -10 db were obtained for helices as long as 10 wavelengths. Good patterns and axial ratio may also be obtained for\\psias small as2\\degprovided that the helix is sufficiently long to establish the surface wave."
"Diffraction of 3.2-cm microwaves has been investigated when45\\degand90\\degconducting wedges were placed, in turn, in a beam with the diffracting edge on the axis of propagation and 5.5 meters from the apex of a pyramidal horn radiator, and with the beam incident on the forward \"bright\" surface of each wedge normally, and also at45\\deg. The incident field was polarized with the electric vector parallel to a diffracting edge. Field patterns for each case out to7.5 \\lambda(24 cm) from an edge have been observed along a line at right angles to the axis of propagation and on seven parallel lines at wavelength intervals further from the source. Comparison of measured intensifies with those calculated with a Bendix G15D computer has been made using asymptotic formulas derived by Pauli. Comparison with values obtained from the exact formula of Macdonald has also been made in a limited region close to a diffracting edge only, since the formula converges very slowly except within some two to three wavelengths distance from the edge. Agreement between experiment and theory is quite good in general in the central region of the field studied. Discrepancies that occur in certain regions have been accounted for."
"The discussion first concerns itself with establishing limits on the validity of the low-density approximation. These depend not only on the electron line density (as has sometimes been loosely stated) but also on the wavelength of observation and on the altitude of the trail. Next, a model is developed for scattering by a supercritical density distribution of electrons, based on the idea that the process can still be viewed as a superposition of individual Compton effects, but with the wave incident on the electron attenuated because of refraction (in analogy to the skin effect). Results of this model are compared with those obtained by the usual approach of replacing the electron distribution by a metallic scatterer whose surface is the critical density contour. Some calculations with nonGaussian electron distributions help to clarify the physical interpretation."
"We present an exposition and certain generalizations of recent work on a class of problems in classical electromagnetic theory. Briefly, we indicate the approach as the Fock theory which is a method of obtaining the field induced by an incident electromagnetic wave on, or near, the surface of a good conductor. The surface is restricted to be smooth, convex, and of characteristic dimensions which are \"large\" with respect to the wavelength of the incident radiation."
"Recent studies lend support to the theory that whistling atmospherics are caused by lightning flashes, the electromagnetic energy radiated by these being guided along discrete columnar ionic irregularities which follow approximately the lines of force of the earth's magnetic field. In Part I, the theoretical problems that arise are set forth and a general wave theory is developed which is first applied to the problem of propagation through homogeneous compound streaming media. In Part II, the simplest case of \"standard type\" propagation along stationary columns is carefully examined, both for columns with a central ionic surplus and for columns with a central ionic deficiency. Although both types of columns can guide electromagnetic energy when sufficiently well developed, it appears that the former type is a much more likely mechanism for the whistler propagation than the latter. In Part III, an attempt is made to show how a systematic theory might be developed for the case of axially moving columns. It is hoped in subsequent papers to further extend this theory and also to deal with propagation of a more general type of disturbances along the columns."
"The input impedance and the radiation pattern of thin biconical antennas which contain materials of high dielectric permittivity\\epsilonand high magnetic permeability\\mucan be evaluated by methods due to Schelkunoff and Tai. Examination of numerical results shows that resonances of the input impedance are obtainable for antenna lengths much shorter than that of the ordinary half-wave dipole. It becomes also apparent, however, that the impedance bandwidth at these resonances is narrow and decreases with increasing\\epsilonand\\mu. Analysis of the pertinent equations leads to the following conclusions concerning radiation patterns: 1) The pattern of an antenna which is small in terms of free-space wavelengths\\lambdaand is also small in terms of material wavelengths,\\lambda/\\sqrt{\\mu\\epsilon}, is essentially that of a small current element in air; 2) If the biconical antenna is small in terms of free-space wavelengths, but is large in terms of material wavelengths the radiation pattern is also that of a small current element, except in certain well defined and very narrow frequency bands where multilobe or narrow lobe patterns appear. A similar \"supergain\" effect has been noted by Knudsen [33] in his discussion of small loops which carry currents of varying phase."
"A simple derivation is given for the reflection of electromagnetic waves from a perfectly-conducting plane surface which has a uniform distribution of hemispherical bosses whose electrical constants are arbitrary. The spacing between the centers of the bosses is taken to be small, which is the justification for neglecting the incoherent radiation. An approximate boundary condition is developed which must be satisfied in an average sense by the tangential fields on the reference plane. The excitation of surface waves on the rough surface is then discussed. It is indicated that to a first order, a rough surface of the kind described here possesses an inductive surface reactance and will support a trapped wave. The effect of finite conductivity of the bosses is to damp exponentially this trapped wave."
"A multislot antenna was built, of which the VSWR is smaller than two in the band of 100 to 1000 mc. The principle of this antenna is analogous to the one of pass band filters in which few modes of resonance are possible, appearing one after the other when frequency varies in the band. While one mode is decreasing and the following is increasing, the simultaneous transmitted waves by the two modes are in quadrature of phase. To do this, it is necessary to have, for each central frequency of the different modes, the radiated electric field on the antenna in the opposite direction with respect to the direction of the electric field for the central frequencies of the two close modes, the direction of the electric field in the feeder being the same in every case."
"Several theorems are derived by using the reaction concept. They apply to single frequency sources of finite extent, and to fields which are finite and continuous on a hypothetical closed surfaceSwhose inside or outside is source-free. 1) The field on the source-free side ofSis uniquely determined by the normal componentsE_{n}andH_{n}onS. 2) For measurements on the source-free side ofS, the primary source can be replaced by any of the following secondary sources onS: (a) Normal electric and magnetic dipoles in free space. (b) Normal electric and magnetic quadrupoles backed by a medium which makesE_{n} = 0andH_{n} = 0. (c) A certain combination of electric and magnetic normal dipoles and quadrupoles which gives zero field on the source side ofS. The prescription for (a) requires the solution for the field of the primary source when it is inside a cavity on whose wallsE_{n} = 0andH_{n} = 0. The surface densities of the various components of secondary sources (b) and (c) are given in terms of the free-space primary field. The formulas are comparatively simple whenSis plane. Many applications are cited including a combination of multipoles, consisting of vertical electric and magnetic dipoles, which is equivalent to a horizontal electric dipole."
"The modes in a ferrite-filled cylindrical waveguide have been analyzed, and a characteristic equation given for their propagation constants in terms of the frequency and applied magnetic field. However, there have been no reported experimental confirmations of these solutions. It is convenient to carry out the experiment by measuring the related resonances in a ferrite-filled cylindrical cavity. This has been done for theF_{0n0}andF_{0n1}, modes in a symmetrically excited cavity. The measured resonant frequencies are in general agreement with numerical results based on the solution of the characteristic equation and the theories of Polder and Rado. Assuming that\\mu_{z}\\approx\\mu, the components of the tensor permeability below the magnetic saturation of the ferrite may be determined over a range of frequencies from the measured curves of resonance. This type of measurement avoids certain difficulties inherent with the perturbation method. The curves of resonance may also be used to calculate the gyromagnetic ratio of the ferrite."
"The radiation field of dipoles is usually expressed in the form of a product of a field factor and one or more array factors. Actually, such a formulation depends on the implicit assumption that the distributions of current along all elements are the same regardless of the location in the array or differences in driving conditions. Since this is a satisfactory approximation only when the elements are near a half-wavelength long, a study of the fields of arrays of longer elements in terms of the actual distributions of current is indicated. The available solutions of the simultaneous integral equations for the distributions of current in a circular array ofN-parallel elements are adequate in a quantitative sense only for arrays of approximately half-wave elements. Moreover, the form of the solution as a series of complicated terms is quite useless (except in the leading sinusoidal term) when the determination of the radiation field is desired. For this reason, a new solution for the currents, which provides a good approximation for the currents in arrays of elements that may be a full wavelength long or longer, and which is expressed in terms of combinations of simple trigonometric functions, is derived. The new solution is used to determine the currents in and the fields of isolated half-wave and full-wave dipoles more accurately than with the conventional sinusoidal currents. The currents, impedances, and fields of a two-element array of full-wave elements are studied under various driving conditions including the broadside, bilateral end-fire, unilateral end-fire or couplet, and the case when one of the elements is parasitic. It is shown that the null in the conventional pattern for the couplet with identically distributed currents becomes a minor maximum with an amplitude equal to half that of the principal maximum when the more accurate distributions of current are used. The significance of this fact in its application to the minor lobe structure of more general arrays is considered. The usefulness of the new theory in determining the radiation field of parallel arrays, in general and when scanned, is discussed, and plans for further work are outlined."
"Starting with Picht's solution of the wave equation in the form of an integral of plane waves over a caustic, we derive expressions for the solution which depend entirely on the geometry of the problem. An asymptotic evaluation of Picht's integral for high frequencies gives the desired result which can have a number of different forms, depending on the precise region where the field is being observed. In particular, a change in the asymptotic field occurs in going from the regular ray field to the caustic or from a regular part of the caustic to a cusp."
"A rigorous solution is derived for the propagation characteristics and field distributions of waves guided by a plane surface which possesses a surface reactance modulated sinusoidally in the propagation direction. The explicit field amplitudes and the determinantal equation for the propagation wavenumber are expressed in a continued fraction form which is rapidly convergent for all values of modulation. Numerical results are obtained for both surface wave (modal) and leaky wave (nonmodal) solutions. The relevance of these studies to high-gain modulated surface-wave antennas is discussed."
"In this paper the boundary value problem of a finite bifurcation in a rectangular waveguide is formulated in terms of a finite range Wiener-Hopf integral equation, and the solution of the integral equation is presented. As a first step, an infinite set of simultaneous equations is obtained from the integral equation. The solution of the above set of equations is then obtained by analytic means. It is indicated that the method developed can be applied to certain other problems of mathematical physics and a number of examples of such problems are included."
"A new formulation of scattering and propagation problems has been developed using Green's functions with essentially correct local behavior. This formulation, which is exact, yields the familiar WKB result as its zeroth approximation. Higher order corrections depend on the spatial variation of the local index of refraction. The convergence is rapid if these variations are gradual. By way of illustration, the method has been applied to the propagation of electromagnetic waves in an isotropic stratified medium and to the scattering of waves by an inhomogeneity. In the former case, the problem of total reflection, as by the ionosphere, has been studied and corrections to the usual WKB phase shift have been obtained. These corrections arise as a consequence of deviations of the effective dielectric constant from linearity in the neighborhood of the turning point, and also because of the slow approach of the height-gain function to its asymptotic value far from the turning point. In the latter example, approximate expressions are obtained for both the scattering amplitude and the close-in electric field which are valid when the index of refraction of the scattering center is close to unity. Polarization effects are examined explicitly."
"An exact and explicit solution is obtained for an electro-magnetic field excited by a vertical electric dipole located over a flat plane of arbitrary surface impedanceZ. Though there are four asymptotic expansions, the expansion by Hadamard's method seems to have the most explicit physical meaning. According to this expansion only the proper solution of the ordinary surface wave can be present explicitly on the established condition ofarg(Z)>\\pi/4. The variation of the field on a spherical surface due to the change of surface impedance is investigated by the use of the ordinary B. Van der Pol and H. Bremmer formula. In this case, when\\arg(Z) >\\pi/3and|Z|is larger than some definite value|Z_{0}|, one of the terms of the formula is found to have the asymptotic form similar to the surface wave term in a flat surface case and, when the surface is highly inductive, it becomes the leading term at large distance from the dipole. The height-gain factor of this term first decreases rapidly with the height up to some point and then gradually increases. The growing up at large height is due to the radiation field. On the other hand, when|Z|\\ll|Z_{0}|, the leading term can scarcely have the correspondence with that in a flat surface case. The propagation of surface wave over a spherical surface across several boundaries of discontinuity of the surface impedance is considered. The leading term is found to take the simple form as in the ordinary transmission line. The results in the case of flat plane are derived from these results as the asymptotic forms in the limit of infinite radius of curvature of spherical surface. The physical meaning of the proper solution such as ordinary surface wave is discussed. The physical condition is not the support condition but rather the condition on which, in some domain of space, the proper solution becomes the leading term of wave by an excitation whose dimension is of the order of magnitude of the wavelength or smaller. As in the case of spherical surface, the radiation field and the surface wave field are generally inseparable. The physical wave will be the leading term of the excited wave itself which may sometimes be a proper solution, such as ordinary surface wave, and sometimes be a mixture with the radiation field. The set of proper solutions is not unique. The Green function of the electromagnetic field constitutes the infinite sets of proper solutions of a continuous spectrum, by each set of which the observed field at a given point can be represented, and in each set of which some members of solutions have the properties of surface wave if there is a highly inductive surface. The field strength excited by a dipole is investigated as a function of the surface impedance in the case where the surface is a fiat plane (Section I) or a spherical surface (Section II). The results in the latter case are then applied to the surface wave propagating across several boundaries of discontinuity of surface impedance (Section III). The physical meaning of the waves of proper solutions, such as the surface wave, is finally discussed in Section IV."
"Using the model of a single rough surface described in Part I, the influence of curvature is considered. The starting point is a residue-series solution for a vertical dipole over a sphere with an arbitrary surface impedance. It is shown that the curvature has a profound influence on the nature of the surface wave, although it uniformly approaches the conditions for a plane boundary as the radius of curvature approaches infinity. The propagation between the space bounded by two parallel uniformly rough surfaces is also considered. This is treated first for plane boundaries and then for concentric spherical boundaries. The latter model is useful in explaining certain experimental data on the terrestrial propagation of VLF radio waves."
"On the basis of the results obtained by Silver and Saunders [4] for the field radiated from an arbitrary slot in a perfectly conducting circular cylinder, expressions have been derived for the field radiated by a narrow helical slot, with an arbitrary aperture field distribution, in a circular cylinder. The cases of a standing wave and a progressing wave aperture field are given particular consideration. It has also been indicated how a finite width of the slot can be taken into consideration. The results for the helical slot have been used for calculating the field radiated from aU-shaped slot antenna in a circular cylinder. By a procedure similar to the one used by Silver and Saunders, expressions have been derived for the field radiated from an arbitrary surface current distribution on a cylinder surface coaxial with a perfectly conducting cylinder. The cases where the space between the two cylindrical surfaces have the sane characteristic constants and different constants are treated separately. Extensive numerical computations of the field radiated from the slot antennas described here are being carried out, but no numerical results are yet available."
"To investigate the influence of variable curvature on the damping of diffracted waves (creeping waves) the integral equation method has been applied to an arbitrary convex cylinder. In addition to the well-known damping factor, depending on the radius of curvatureR, a first-order correction term yields an amplitude factorR^{1/6}while the second-order correction term results in a change in damping depending on the curvature and its first and second derivatives."
"A general modal solution for a rectangular guide partially filled with a slab of ferrite transversely magnetized and situated against one side wall is considered. The relative characteristic equation, which has been obtained in a previous work, is numerically solved for some typical cases and for modes of zero, first and second order with respect to the dependence along the direction of the dc magnetic field. The results are summarized in fifteen diagrams giving the propagation constant vs the ferrite slab thickness. From the preceding analysis it can be concluded that: 1) propagating modes of any order may exist; 2) modes of zero order are not always the lowest propagating modes, in the sense that higher order modes can propagate when zero order modes are attenuated; 3) cases can exist when all the unattenuated propagating modes travel in the same sense."
"The computational difficulties connected with the problem of high-frequency back scattering from a conducting cylinder with dielectric sleeve arise from the slow convergence of the conventional Fourier representation of the field and are compounded by the involved nature of its Fourier coefficients. In addition, the numerical results give no physical insight into the complicated structure of the back-scattering functions. An alternative representation of the diffracted amplitude as a series of radial eigenfunctions has the advantage of rapid convergence at high frequencies but presents difficulties of its own since one must find not only the complex coefficients of the expansion but also the complex indices for which the coefficients are to be evaluated. Some of these difficulties can be avoided by transforming the radial representation into a sum of terms, one of which is a well-known form of the diffracted amplitude from a conducting cylinder whose radius is the same as the outer radius of the dielectric sleeve. The second term, which contains the effect of the sleeve, turns out conveniently to be an infinite integral over a real variable. An expansion of its integrand leads to a series of terms which are analogous to optical rays. When the over-all cylinder radius is large, each of these terms has a stationary phase approximant over a certain range of dielectric thickness and relative dielectric constant. Only over this range does the corresponding ray contribute to the back-scattered amplitude. The detailed evaluation of three of these integrals gives results which account for some of the features of the back-scattering functions."
"This paper describes recent radio propagation measurements in the millimeter wavelength region between 100 and 118 kmcs over a 2155 foot path. The attenuation due to atmospheric gases was determined and the contribution from water vapor, oxygen and some rare atmospheric gases was analyzed. The data are explained in terms of an oxygen line at 2.53 mm, having a strength of 1.6 db/km and a line breadth of 0.05 cm-1, a water vapor line at 110 kmcs with a strength of 0.35 db/km for a standard atmosphere and a line breadth constant of 0.08 cm-1, and irregular absorption by rare gases such as N2O, NO2, SO2and O3."
"The results of a study and flight test program to investigate L-band multipath propagation in airborne pulsed systems under direction of the U. S. Navy Bureau of Aeronautics and carried out through the cooperative efforts of the U. S. Naval Research Laboratory and Hazeltine Corporation using facilities provided by U. S. Naval Air Development Unit, South Weymouth, Mass., are reported. Exact time delays for a smooth curved earth reflecting surface with a standard atmospheric line of sight propagation are charted. Pulse to pulse direct and multipath amplitude variations are recorded for various transmitter-receiver flight altitude combinations from 5,000 feet to 50,000 feet. Measured amplitudes are compared with calculated amplitudes using theoretical sea reflection coefficients and assumed antenna patterns. A wide range of grazing angles is covered and some correlation with angle of incidence and roughness criteria are examined, together with time variations of the sea reflection coefficient."
"Antennas with high performance characteristics can be designed by the use of logical and switching operations to combine the radiation patterns from a multiple antenna system. The mathematical and engineering principles employed are similar to those used in digital computer design. This paper presents a general discussion of logical operators useful in antenna design. A design procedure for the synthesis of arbitrary antenna patterns by a piece-wise approximation scheme based on these principles is developed. Logical pattern synthesis is then used in theoretical and experimental examples to demonstrate the advantages of logical antenna systems over conventional antenna systems of comparable complexity."
"The amount of information about the angle of arrival of a plane wave incident on a line aperture is shown to depend on the bandwidth of the incident signal as well as on the extent of the aperture. Conventional antenna theory assumes the angular resolution of an antenna depends only on the aperture extent and illumination. However, by autocorrelation techniques further angular resolution can be obtained. This additional directivity depends on the extent of the signal bandwidth. It is shown for line arrays that the obtainable directivity information depends on the aperture illumination function and the autocorrelation function of the incident signal. In view of the vast amount of information available concerning conventional antennas, the results of this paper have been related to conventional antenna theory. The antenna designer can specify the desired directivity pattern in terms of a conventional single-frequency aperture illumination function. The effects of this single frequency illumination function can then be achieved for wide-band signals by a simpler illumination function. Some examples of the theory are given."
"The role of transmission bandwith on the information capacity of low-power meteor-burst communication systems has been investigated. An optimum bandwidth theorem is presented, based on an equal contribution to the duty cycle from underdense and overdense trails. Such a criterion implies that the best bandwidth is dependent on other system parameters such as transmitter power, antenna gains and threshold level. For a low-power, low-rate system this optimum bandwidth may actually be quite narrow. Experimental data taken recently on the Bozeman-Palo Alto circuit are used to determine certain constants for a capacity-bandwidth relationship."
"A new microwave scanning array is described which permits a precision in pointing and pattern shape heretofore unattainable in systems using ferrite phase shifters. The core of this new array is a synchronous reciprocal ferrite device which operates via a synchronously rotating magnetic field, similar to the classical alternator. This provides a continuously increasing phase shift which is linear in time to the same degree that the angular velocity of the magnetic field is constant. The latter is precisely controlled through quadrature currents in identical quadrature coils. The rate of phaseshift change is governed by the frequency of the coil currents. A uniform progressive phase shift is achieved in the array by using frequency multiples in the coils of successive phase shifters. These frequencies are precisely related through master crystals and frequency dividers. All the non-linearity difficulties of conventional ferrite phase shifters are avoided, thus eliminating costly and complex computer compensation. The scan range is adjusted by selection of the percent dead time and interelement spacing. Two-dimensional scanning is possible using a combination of frequency scan in one plane and synchronous ferrite scan in the other."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"A summary is given of the factors affecting electromagnetic wave transmission and reception in connection with remote controlled guidance, telemetry, voice communication, and radar tracking of a hypersonic, re-entry vehicle. The emphasis of this paper is on the effects of the ionized shock layer, about the re-entry vehicle, on wave propagation to and from the vehicle. Generalized curves are given which describe the propagation effects under a variety of conditions. Present estimates of the influence of the ionized shock layer on propagation are deficient because of the limited knowledge concerning several of the basic gas parameters for air, as well as the inexistence of a proven method for determining the flow field about a re-entry vehicle. A program directed toward obtaining the needed information, through in-flight and laboratory experiments, is outlined."
"The useful power-handling, capacity of airborne antennas is limited by air breakdown. As aircraft and missiles operate at increasingly higher altitudes, design for breakdown becomes more important. While testing at simulated altitudes is indispensable, data are already available which may be used to predict antenna breakdown performance. The combined results of several experimenters form a consistent picture of air breakdown in the range of altitudes for which breakdown power is least. The altitude for minimum breakdown power can be predicted from the operating frequency, and breakdown power for practical antenna configurations may be estimated. Comparisons of predicted and measured breakdown performance are shown, which indicate that useful estimates can be made."
"The electric field distribution required to realize a desired radiation pattern is sometimes quickly visualized by means of a transfer function (the spectral sensitivity function) which measures the response of the antenna system to the spatial frequencies of a two-dimensional distribution of brightness. The effects of amplitude and phase errors of individual elements on the directivity and side radiation pattern of an interferometer system are discussed. In the case of phase-switched interferometers it is also important to evaluate the effect of fixed phase error of the switch and feeder system, and phase throw error of the switch, on the radiation pattern. It is shown that these phase errors affect the shape of the radiation pattern only if there exists an odd component in the two-dimensional electric field distribution over an aperture. Details of construction of the transmission line system of a cross-antenna built at Stanford for operation at 9 cm. wavelength are described. The antenna has 16 paraboloidal reflectors in each arm of the cross and provides a pencil beam of nearly 4 minutes of arc width. The experimental technique employed in adjusting amplitude and phase of the field, impressed on each element of the interferometer is also described."
"Several slow-wave structures have been studied with the objective of building a wide band traveling wave maser at 3 kmc. A brief discussion of each structure and its relative merits is given. Operation with garnet as an isolation mechanism is described."
"This paper discusses a particular type of nonreflecting waveguide filter in which the upper stop band is quite broad, typically extending three, four or more times the pass band center frequency. Because of its wide stop band range, this filter is useful for suppression of harmonic frequencies. This filter has been called the leaky-wall type because filtering action occurs by mounting an array of terminated secondary waveguides, acting as high pass absorbers, on a primary waveguide transmission line. The secondary waveguides are coupled to the primary guide by large apertures, properly dimensioned and oriented so that coupling may occur to the many higher order modes of propagation in the primary guide. The design of these apertures (i.e., their size, orientation and number) to achieve a desired stop band insertion loss as a function of frequency at least for the lower order modes is presented in this paper by a series of empircal curves. In addition, the techniques used to evaluate filter performance for a high power capacity S-band experimental model filter are presented."
"Several three-level solid-state masers using ruby have been operated at frequencies near 3000 Mc/s, using a high-efficiency cavity having TEM modes in a rectangular geometry, or a meander-line slow-traveling-wave circuit with low group velocity over the signal pass band. Various possible maser operating points in the energy-level spectrum of ruby have been studied with both structures. At good operating points, i.e. points where the observed inversion at the signal frequency is large when the pump is turned on, large gain-bandwidth products are obtained in the cavity maser and large gains/unit length in the traveling-wave maser. Although the cavity gain-bandwidth products obtained are two orders of magnitude larger than were obtained in early maser work, and are sufficiently large for some practical applications, the traveling-wave maser appears to have much more promise due to its inherently broader bandwidth, stability and built-in nonreciprocity."
"A solid-state, cavity-type maser has been employed as a pre-amplifier in an X-band radar system. TR leak-through from the transmitted pulse causes the maser to become saturated unless special measures are taken to reduce this leakage. A low-loss, ferrite TR switch that was developed specifically for this purpose provided an additional 30 db of isolation from the transmitted pulse, a value sufficient to allow normal maser operation. With the improved duplexing afforded by the ferrite switch, the measured noise temperature of the maser, circulator, mixer, and i-f amplifier combined was65\\degK. The noise temperature of the over-all receiver, including that due to losses in the ferrite switch, the TR tube, waveguide, and rotary joints, was173\\degK. The noise temperature of a good X-band radar receiver without a maser preamplifier is1500\\degto2500\\degK. The improvement in the detection range obtained by the use of the maser is considered, and the importance of antenna noise temperature is discussed. The feasibility of immediate application in some special radar systems is also considered."
"An automatic matching device has been designed in order to meet a specification of 1.2:1 in maximum VSWR for a high power S-band radar operating over a 15% frequency band, with a maximum load mismatch of 2.0:1. Two pairs of detectors coupled to the waveguide are used as the sensing elements; one pair responding to the real, the other to the imaginary component of the reflection coefficient. Their outputs are used as error signals and are amplified to drive motors controlling two tuning plungers which match the load to the transmitter. The paper describes the theory of operation of the system. Details are given of the detector probes, tuning plungers and waveguide stubs for high power operation. The servo control aspect of the equipment is discussed and details of an analog simulation are given. An experimental model, designed for a 4% bandwidth was tested. A residual VSWR of better than 1.09:1 was obtained for all phases of terminal VSWR up to 2.0:1. The automatic matching operation takes less than one second. The mechanical details of a prototype design are described."
"The microwave properties of thin magnetic films are described and are compared with ferromagnetic insulators. Consequences of two processes which give rise to some special properties are examined, namely the initial permeability and the gyromagmetic permeability. The specific topics include a comparison of the frequency response of ferrites and films; electromagnetic wave transmission through thin magnetic films, with particular regard to controlling the power flow by changes in permeability; discussion of the limitation imposed by the skin depth to obtain an adequate number of effective spins; potential applications of the initial permeability at microwave frequencies; and, finally, a description of a scheme which, in principle, represents a spin parametric amplifier."
"Basically, there are two modes in which reactance (parametric) amplifiers can be operated. In one mode, there is no negative conductance associated with the terminal impedances of the amplifier, and consequently absolute stability results. However, the maximum available power gain for this mode of operation is limited to the ratio of the output signal frequency (the sum of the input signal frequency and the pump frequency) to the input signal frequency. In the second basic mode of operation, the terminal impedances of the amplifier contain negative conductance components. Consequently, the amplifier is potentially unstable but can give large gain at the expense of reduced bandwidth. In designing low-noise receiving systems for microwave frequencies, one is led to consider the use of the negative conductance type of reactance amplifier in order to obtain sufficient gain so that the overall system noise factor is determined by the low-noise reactance amplifier stage. Until recently, however, the values of gain-bandwidth products achieved in practice with this type of amplifier have been disappointingly low. A theory is presented in which voltage gain-fractional bandwidth products for two negative conductance types of reactance amplifiers are analyzed in terms of pertinent nonlinear-capacitance diode and circuit parameters. Low-frequency prototype models of these types of reactance amplifiers were designed in accordance with the theory, and the measured operating characteristics were found to be in excellent agreement with the large values predicted by theory. At microwave frequencies, gain-bandwidth products substantially lower than those obtained at low frequencies may result because of the effects of diode lead inductance and the selectivity of the associated microwave circuits. Designs for minimizing these effects are discussed, and experimental results obtained at microwave frequencies are presented. Designing amplifiers in accordance with the theory also provides a nearly optimum noise figure."
"The theoretical and experimental performance is presented of a low-noise up-converter that uses a back-biased, diffused-junction diode. Some results of the theoretical analysis are described to show how the gain and noise figure of the amplifier depend on the diode loss, available capacitance variation, and generator and load terminations. It is also shown that when power is dissipated in the diode at the lower sideband frequency, the gain of the up-converter is greatly increased while the noise figure is relatively unaffected. The construction of an experimental up-converter is described as well as the instrumentation and techniques used in measuring its gain and noise figure. When no power is dissipated in the diode at the lower sideband frequency, it is found that, for an input signal frequency of 410 Mc and an output up-converter frequency of 9227 Mc, a gain of12.4 \\pm 0.5db and a noise figure of about 0.9 db can be obtained. When a large amount of power is dissipated at the lower sideband frequency, it is found that the gain is about 20 db and the noise figure is about 1.0 db."
"Radiation patterns of elevated antennas over spherical earth for scatter propagation in the lower ionosphere incorporating refraction, parallax, spherical divergence, and tropospheric defocusing have been used to compute the height gain function resulting from raising and lowering symmetric transmitting and receiving antennas for a fixed path length. This height gain function shows that a broad range of lower antenna heights has a gain over that antenna height computed with the same model which places the maximum of the first lobe at the path midpoint. The maximum of this function is defined as the optimum antenna height."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings, Part 1, Antennas and Propagation."
"A new wide aperture, rapid scan antenna , termed the hourglass scanner, is described. A novel adaptation of the Wullenweber array, the hourglass scanner antenna provides for a large aperture by combining a shaped reflector in the vertical plane with a circularly disposed feed array in the horizontal plane. Rapid scanning is achieved through rotation of a small noncontacting r-f commutator. A unique feed array provides for four independent beams each covering adjacent 2 to 1 frequency bands."
"This paper describes the analysis and design of a class of antennas which can radiate and receive constant shape pencil beams with either circular sense, any linear, or elliptical polarization by a simple adjustment in the feed circuit. Such radiators are called arbitrarily polarized antennas. The apertures described are located on upper plates of radial waveguides and are composed of annular slots, with each annulus consisting of a discrete number of crossed slots. The annular slots are positioned so that each arm of the crossed slots can couple by a constant factor to the radial or circumferential currents flowing over the aperture plate to produce a common instantaneous direction for the electric field in each slot pair. Both standing-wave and traveling-wave array types are employed. The standing-wave array requires only one radial waveguide mode for its operation. The traveling-wave array requires two modes and results in greater bandwidth and greater freedom in arraying many annuli. The methods used to excite the various radial waveguide modes are discussed, and theoretical and experimental radiation patterns at X-band are compared."
"This paper describes waveguide slot elements whose radiating characteristics can be electronically varied, both in amplitude and phase. It is well known that a normally nonradiating longitudinal slot in the broadwall of rectangular wave guide can be caused to radiate by discontinuities judiciously placed near the slot and within the waveguide. If the characteristics of the discontinuities (stubs, irises, etc. ) can be varied by external means, the control of slot radiation is facilitated. The use of various ferrite discontinuities are discussed and shown to enable either variable amplitude of radiation or both variable amplitude and variable phase of radiation. The controlling mechanism is a d-c magnetic field provided by an external electromagnet."
"A theoretical statistical analysis is presented in which a study was performed to determine the effect of random current excitation errors upon the radiation characteristics of a two-dimensional array of identical radiators. A statistical model is developed and it is then argued that this model closely approximates the nature of the radiated electric field produced by an array of a large number of current elements, where the individual element currents are in error both in amplitude and phase. The analysis has been applied to the study of the following antenna characteristics: (1) maximum sidelobe level within a specified cone about the main beam, (2) maximum sidelobe level in the remainder of the half space outside the specified cone, and (3) beam pointing accuracy."
"The resulting normalized aperture field distributions from the recorded primary radiation patterns of various feed horns are examined and simulated by equivalent mathematical functions such ase^{-Pr^{2}}ande^{-kr}, wherepandkare constants. Convenient methods are worked out for the computation of the different secondary far field radiation pattern parameters for circularly symmetric equiphase distributions in terms ofpork. Computed and experimental data for beamwidth, efficiency, first and second side lobes, and aperture blocking effects are plotted and compared as a function of p. The resulting secondary patterns due to aperture field distributione^{-kr}are computed and presented in graph form for comparison."
"A compact, very broadband, linearly polarized feed unit has been developed for use in large aperture paraboloidal reflectors. The unit, a multi-dipole array provides 4 separate feeds covering 4 adjacent 2:1 bands with good front to back ratio and VSWR. On three of the bands front to back ratio is generally 10 db and of ten 15 db or better. Front to back ratio on the lowest band is better than 8 db. Model tests of the feed plus reflector indicate that secondary pattern beamwidths and side lobes are good over the band with side lobes between 20 to 30 db down in the E plane and below 10 db in the H plane. Directivity as calculated from beamwidths closely corresponds to theoretical directivity over the whole band. Compact mechanical packaging is achieved in balun construction."
"The combination of four broadband 3 db directional couplers and four radiating elements into an antenna for direction-finding purposes has been investigated. Under theoretical conditions, two overlapping beams with constant crossover level and variable crossover slope over an infinite frequency band can be obtained. All four radiators are active in producing each of the two main lobes for simultaneous comparison, thereby providing the pattern effect of two antennas of similar dimensions. Practically, an antenna pattern with crossover level 3 to 5 db below beam maximum, and pointing accuracy of\\pm0.75degrees over a 2. 2 to 1 bandwidth has been achieved."
"The extended need for circularly polarized antennas has increased with the growing demands of telemetering, countermeasures, and communications in the aircraft and guided missile field. The inadvertent cross polarization which occurs from linearly polarized sources as a result of reflection has also imposed such a need in the field of satellite tracking. The desirable antenna characteristics for these particular applications are: (a) Constant beamwidth in both planes (b) Low axial ratio (c) Low beamtilt (d) Optimum match to a standard 50 ohm line Coupled with these requirements is the all important one of maximum attainable bandwidth to reduce the number of structures required to cover the assigned frequency spectrum. Circularly polarized antennas, in the past, have been restricted to crossed dipoles fed in quadrature or cylindrical helixes mounted on ground planes. The maximum attainable bandwidth of these antennas, being extremely frequency sensitive, is 2:1 or less. The conical helix was suggested by Dr. Kraus of Ohio State University some time ago and more recently by J. S. Chatterjee of the University of Calcutta as reported in the Journal of Applied Physics."
"The application of unidirectional log periodic antennas as feeds for lens or reflectors to cover 10:1 or 20:1 bandwidths is described. Information on the primary patterns, phase center variation, input impedance, and aperture blocking of trapezoidal-tooth sheet structures is given so as to allow the design of feeds for a variety of lens and reflectors. Final results of pattern, gain and impedance measurements on a four-foot dish over the frequency range of 600 to 6000 mc are presented and a discussion of the slight sacrifice in gain to achieve this bandwidth is given."
"The back scattering from many different types of terrain has been measured at frequencies of 10, 15.5 and 35 KMC using both vertical and horizontal polarization. The average radar cross section of the terrain\\sigmahas been plotted as a function of incidence angle for the three frequencies. Seasonal changes of vegetation covered terrain, effects of rain, and various types of snowcover are shown as functions of incidence angle, frequency, and polarization. Due to the large quantity of data that have been collected and the accuracy of the data (\\pm 1db) certain pertinent parameters that affect the magnitude of the return have been determined. These parameters are: surface roughness, incidence angle, polarization, complex dielectric constant of the terrain, and frequency."
"This paper discusses the calculations and corroborating measurements that were made of the near and far fields of electromagnetic waves propagating along and emanating from structures whose equivalent index of refraction is a function of the direction of propagation. The radiation patterns for a linearly tapered array at 2750 Mc and 3000 Mc were calculated using simple approximations of the near field. These calculations showed good agreement with the measured patterns. There was a discrepancy, however, between the measured and calculated far fields at 2500 Mc."
"Of prime importance in evaluating the usefulness of a direction finding antenna are the pattern characteristics obtainable over the frequency range of interest. In general, the most desirable direction finding antenna is one which offers the narrowest beamwidth in the plane in which direction is to be determined, since this narrow beamwidth lends itself well to accuracy and ease of operation. However, where physical size is severely limited the well known inverse relationship between an antenna's size in terms of wavelengths and its beamwidth precludes the use of a narrow beam antenna. In applications where size is thus limited alternative approaches must be considered. A direction finding antenna has been designed whose size is restircted to a cylindrical volume approximately.15 \\lambdain diameter and.35 \\lambdain length at the lowest operating frequency. The antenna consists of a metallic cylinder containing two diametrically opposed slots. These slots are polarized at an angle of 45 degrees from vertical, hence the antenna is equally responsive to both vertically and horizontally polarized signals. Further space conservation is realized by packaging the drive and control mechanisms associated with the antenna within the slotted cylinder antenna structure. In operation the antenna functions in a manner similar to an Adcock array, that is the slot elements are 180 degrees out of phase. Since this relationship is achieved by simply \"inverting\" one of the elements it is independent of frequency, and the antenna's pattern characteristics remain constant. The antenna's bandwidth is determined then by its impedance characteristics and is suitable for receiving application over a 2 to 1 frequency band. This slot arrangement offers a figure eight type pattern for both polarizations of interest. The nulls of these figure eight patterns are sufficiently well defined and aligned to offer excellent direction finding capability, but with an inherent 180 degree ambiguity. This ambiguity is resolved by making use of the unidirectional properties of a cylindrical antenna containing a single slot. The antenna is transformed from the double slot array to the single slot configuration by means of a simple R.F. switching arrangement. The unidirectional pattern thus achieved from a slotted cylinder of limited size is not in itself adequate for accurate direction finding. However, when used as a sense pattern in conjunction with the aforementioned figure eight pattern quite accurate direction finding capability is achieved. The antenna possesses several features advantageous from a mechanical point of view. Among these are the low weight and the relatively small moment of inertia of the rotating members. Thus the use of a fractional horsepower drive motor and light-weight drive mechanism is permissible. The theory of the antenna's operation is discussed as well as the effect environment on its electrical characteristics. Theoretical and experimental data is also presented."
"The application of unidirectional, wire, trapezoidal-tooth, log periodic antennas to h-f point-to-point communications is described. The antennas are placed over ground in such a manner that the vertical plane radiation pattern, as well as the azimuth pattern and input impedance, is essentially independent of frequency over the 3-to 30-mc range. Moreover, the design parameters can be chosen so that the upper half-power point will fall at any vertical angle from 70° down to a few degrees. The antennas are horizontally polarized with azimuthal beam widths of 60°, low side lobes and gains ranging from 11 db to 18 db over an isotrope. Optimum elevation plane patterns for point-to-point paths as a function of extreme ionospheric virtual heights are defined, and antenna designs producing these patterns are given."
"It is often convenient to have theoretical expressions for the back-scattering cross-section of terrain, in order to properly organize experimental data, and to permit complete analysis of radar operation. Two models have been proposed for this purpose. The first, applicable to roadways and similar smooth surfaces, gives the return in terms of the roughness, the height correlation function and the complex dielectric constant of the surface, and is in excellent quantitative agreement with experiment. The second model, applicable to grass or similar cylindrical vegetation, gives the return as a function of the number, size, and complex dielectric constant of the cylindrical scatterers; it is in qualitative agreement with experiment. Applications to the problem of characterizing terrain, and to radiometry are mentioned."
"Presents an abstract of the conference paper."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"It is argued that nonlinear capacitance junction diodes now available are suitable for very low-noise parametric traveling-wave amplification at UHF (and microwaves) without need for refrigeration and with low pump power requirements. Several experimental amplifiers have been built for UHF in coaxial and printed circuit forms. These are described."
"Presents an abstract of the conference paper."
"If a magnetic field is applied perpendicular to a current flow in any conductor the moving charges (which constitute the current) are releflected sidewise and build up a potential difference between the two sides of the conductor. The creation of this transverse electric field (perpendicular both to the magnetic field and to the original current flow) is called the Hall effect. This effect has been the mode of operation of many proposed devices. These devices, which will be discussed, have been arbitrarily divided into two groups: Devices which use a constant magnetic field, and devices in which a signal or an oscillator produces the magnetic field. Such a division is not entirely arbitrary, because the first groujrhas inherently a very high limit on the operating frequency; whereas the second group has a considerably lower limit."
"The most direct way to attain a faster computer is to increase speed of the random-access memory (RAM). In this connection, application of the principles of superconductivity to memory to attain rapid switching times is currently being givcn serious cousideration. This report covers the advantages and disadvantages experienced during our investigations on 8 x 8 memory planes."
"Lists discussion sessions presented at the conference proceedings."
"Lists discussion sessions presented at the conference proceedings."
"The document was not made available for publication as part of the conference proceedings."
"Lists discussion sessions presented at the conference proceedings."
"The document was not made available for publication as part of the conference proceedings."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Presents the table of contents for the 1959 IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference (Digest of Technical Papers)."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"This paper describes a 400-mc reactance amplifier using a nonlinear capacitor as the basic element. Performance data of the amplifier and construction details for several different modes of operation are described. The nonlinear capacitor is a special caractor diode developed by the Bell Telephone Laboratories."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A single-ended transistor output stage is described in which the low battery drain and high-power output characteristics of push-pull Class B are achieved by a sliding bias produced by the signal."
"This paper analyzes the low-frequency behavior of the vented loudspeaker enclosure and the pressure-tight closed box. Inherent interrelationships of the speaker-amplifier system Q, efficiency and response balance are discussed. A method is described for design of small enclosures with very low.resonance high-compliance loudspeakers. The author concludes that the vented enclosure can have greater acoustic output for a given amount of distortion, lower total harmonic, intermodulation, and transient distortion than a completely closed box of similar size."
"The delta sound system for television receivers incorporates the three features of AM compression, high-level audio output FM detection, and fundamental AM cancellation in a circuit having cost advantages. Design information is presented for the system to enable the circuit designer to specify component parts and to predict the performance. AM compression in the range of 12 to 24 db and a peak-to-peak audio output voltage of about 60 volts with cancellation of the fundamental component of the undesired AM are obtainable with readily available low-cost tubes and circuit components."
"The IRE National Convention Record, particularly that of the Spring National Convention in New York and of WESCON, will no longer be sent automatically to members of professional groups. Instead, we plan to publish PGA convention papers in these Transactions."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to Society memebers as well as the rest of the engineering community."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A transistor audio amplifier with input impedance independent of the load and adjustable continuously up to a value of the order ofr_{m}/2is described. The amplifier consists of a unilateralizedhook common collector configuration and has large power gain, very low output impedance. Its noise figure and dependence upon temperature, frequency, bias, and load are discussed."
"An audio frequency amplifier arrangement is described which results in decreased plate dissipation. The arrangement is suitable for either class A or class B amplifiers. The scheme employed is to feed the grid of the amplifier an auxiliary signal as well as the desired audio frequency signal. The auxiliary signal is at a super-audible frequency and is automatically adjusted so that its peaks in the positive direction never cause the peak plate current to exceed the maximum current peak of the desired signal, nor shall its amplitude be so high as to cause clipping of the auxiliary signal on its negative peaks; in other words, the added wave should not affect the average value of the current generated by the desired signal. The plate circuit has its regular low-frequency load, but it also has a load circuit tuned to the super-audible frequency. The super-audible output may be dissipated as heat in a resistor. Calculations have been made which show that for a given input and output at low frequencies, the maximum plate dissipation of a class A amplifier may be reduced to as low as 41 per cent of the maximum dissipation attained in conventional class A operation, and that the maximum plate dissipation of a class B amplifier may be reduced to as low as 50 per cent of the maximum dissipation attained in conventional class B operation."
"Playback of two-track stereo source material with a derived center channel offers accurate reproduction of the original stereo geometry, and requires very simple implementation. Essentially this two-track three-channel stereo depends on the principle that if two microphones are properly placed relative to each other and to the plane of the sound source, their combined output is that of a single microphone in the center, which output may be recovered by recombination of the two tracks. When a physical third microphone in the center is employed to feed the two tracks, its recovery from two tracks depends on relative polarity and amplitudes and in one recombination method the center microphone could be cancelled instead of being reproduced. An all-pass network may be used to shift the phase of one track so that on recombination the physical third microphone is always recovered, regardless of the manner in which it was mixed into the two tracks. The all-pass network produces 90° phase shift at only one frequency, but by choice of this frequency and the expectancy of additive polarity of original mixing, the center channel is recovered with excellent acuity, based on tests similar to those of Steinberg and Snow. Experimental recovery of a center output channel from a single center microphone feeding the two tracks, with flanking input signals zero, resulted in a center track output which was substantially indistinguishable from a normal monophonic reproduction."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The Awards Committee of the Professional Group on Audio is proud to announce the following awards for the year 1958: IRE-PGA Achievement Award and the IRE-PGA Senior Award."
"Measurements made on instruments and orchestras, during the playing of selections, include average amplitudes in long intervals (15 seconds) and distribution of peaks in very short intervals (one-eighth second). Octave and half-octave bands are measured, as well as unfiltered music. The instruments tested were selected as possibly contributing extreme frequencies and amplitudes. Calculations of peak acoustic powers range as high as 27 watts. Although different techniques would be applied today, such as the use of a recorded tape to insure exact duplication of a selection as different frequency bands are explored, and the measurement of rms rather than average amplitudes, it is nevertheless felt that the measurements were reasonably accurate. The type of presentation, however, left something to be desired. Both kinds of curves will be found here in new forms. For the peaks, the plan used later in presenting similar data on speech has been adopted. The average amplitudes are reduced to a per-cycle basis in a different manner. Both types are plotted in absolute rather than relative units, and are reduced to a common distance. The table of peak powers is recalculated, using the same assumptions as before, but making the estimate for the 1 per cent level of intervals, in all cases. All new reductions and calculations are made from the original measured data. Some changes in the text are necessary to describe the revisions of the figures, and a few comments have been added. The term \"bar\" which was in current use in 1931 for \"dyne per square centimeter,\" is changed here to \"microbar.\" The \"Historical Note,\" which appeared at the end of the original paper, has been shortened somewhat and made a part of the introduction."
"A comparison is made of the performance of magnetic tape when the recording field is in the same direction as, or perpendicular to, the oxide particles as encountered in magnetic disc or video recording."
"This paper discusses a filter whose amplitude response characteristic ise^{k\\gamma^{2}}where γ is a function of frequency and k is a constant related to the filter bandwidth. The amplitude response curve of this filter has the shape of the Gaussian probability function and it is shown that the phase response curve may be assumed to be linear. Previous investigators have shown that such a filter has excellent transient characteristics and that in some sense, it is the optimum filter for transient signals. The responses to impulse and step functions are discussed in this paper. A method for designing an approximate Gaussian filter is given, and the measured responses of such an approximate Gaussian filter are presented."
"Presents news of members' accomplishments or honors, appointments, or other announcements that would be of interest to Society memebers as well as the rest of the engineering community."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Stereophonic playback systems are studied to determine the accuracy with which they can reproduce the geometry of the original sound. Sounds were generated in a geometric pattern, recorded, and reproduced over a loudspeaker array. The methods used were similar to those used by Steinberg and Snow in 1933. Using two sound tracks, a derived center playback channel, and corner placement of flanking speakers, geometry plots were made with almost as good accuracy as when observers listened to an actual person speaking at the indicated stations in the geometric array. Since wide speaker spacing was used, corner placement becomes natural. An evaluation of corner speaker placement from the tonal standpoint (as contrasted with the geometric) shows that there is a large increase in quality available by taking advantage of the reflections of the floor and walls. It is shown that corner placement of flanking speakers and use of a derived-channel center speaker affords the best reproduction of geometry as well as tonality."
"An analytical as well as experimental evaluation of the electromechanical equivalent circuit constants of a two-channel flexural-type element is presented. This unit is a hollow cylindrical PZT ceramic structure electroded and polarized to be responsive to two signals perpendicular to each other. The electromechanical equivalent circuit chosen to represent this element is based on the analogy between mechanical and electrical vibrating systems, and is a modification of the electromechanical circuit proposed by Mason. It is made up of lumped electrical and mechanical parameters in combination with an ideal transformation ratio. Along with this evaluation, a brief discussion of performance characteristics of an experimental cartridge utilizing this element will be presented."
"The development and performance capabilities of a dual pentode using a single cathode, two separate Framelok grids and a twin-plate structure contained in one envelope is described. This new pentode, known as Type 6DY7, is a high-performance tube with superior characteristics of uniformity and stability obtained from its unique structure. Such factors as greater uniformity in tube-to-tube characteristics, reduced characteristic spread, and less susceptibility to characteristic deterioration at high dissipations can be obtained. This dual pentode offers extreme flexibility in application. Three basic configurations are: 1) sections operated separately (single-ended) giving 5 watts of audio power per section; 2) two sections in push-pull, Class AB1providing up to 20 watts output at less than 3 per cent distortion; and 3) two tubes in push-pull parallel. A single tube can be used for two stereo output channels, or two tubes can be operated in push-pull for higher power requirements. The same advantages can be used for monophonic audio systems. The tube, therefore, offers the circuit designer a choice of usage not possible in presently-available tubes and at cost advantages realizable through a reduction in the number of circuit components."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A simple method of measuring the phase characteristic of a loudspeaker is described and typical phase curves are given for moving-coil and electrostatic loudspeakers. Distortion in correlation functions measured with an electrostatic loudspeaker is described and related to the phase characteristic of the speaker."
"A number of methods for azimuth alignment were investigated. A technique for alignment which compares the output from two tracks of a multitrack tape provided a substantial improvement in alignment accuracy as compared to the methods which had been in use up to this time. A method for adjusting the lateral position of the head across the width of the tape was also developed which made use of the same basic principles as the \"null method\" of azimuth alignment."
"For low distortion, power transistors should be driven from a low impedance source. Thus an emitter-follower driver has definite appeal. A further advantage is that the driver transistor may be direct coupled to the output transistor. This paper describes the basic design method for this circuit and illustrates its performance. Important considerations such as stability, transistor interchangeability, frequency response, and distortion are discussed and typical measurements shown. The features of this circuit are: good stability and the facts that transistor parameters are noncritical, no bias adjustments are required, frequency response is flat over the audio range, and distortion is low."
"Nonlinear distortion produced in a given circuit can be reduced by pre- or postdistorting the signal applied to or from the circuit. Such complementary distortion cannot reduce the original distortion to zero in practice because of distortion of distortion, but it can result in greatly reduced output distortion over a limited amplitude range. General results for the design of pre- or postdistortion circuits are given, and the mathematical results are illustrated by comparing the total harmonic distortions obtained with pre- and postdistortion corrections of increasing complexity applied to a simple nonlinear circuit."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A new shape for a phonograph needle stylus is described which greatly improves the reproduction possibilities from phonograph records. The new stylus was specifically produced for use with 45°-45° stereo recordings, but will perform equally well on all microgrooved monaural recordings. The scheme described evolves a shape of reproducing stylus having a basic geometry relating to the cutting stylus used in forming all microgrooves. Computations, experimental data and charts are also used to support the improvements to be expected in reproduction performance."
"Two basic sampling methods for the transmission of intelligible speech with reduced channel capacity have previously been studied. The channel vocoder developed by Dudley is based on frequency band separation or quantization, and Schisser, and Fairbanks, Everitt, and Jaeger have developed a technique of time sampling. Sampling in both time and frequency offers a third major possibility which should be investigated. For this study a narrow-band speech transmission system was constructed which scans the time-frequency plane. The system scans in either a sinusoidal or in a sawtooth manner over a frequency range of 200 to 7000 cps. In order to achieve the scanning, a variable carrier frequency oscillator, having a frequency shift of ± 30 per cent of the carrier frequency and an amplitude modulation of ± 2 db, has been developed. The process of scanning leaves empty spaces in the time-frequency plane, and a four-channel time-delay system which employs the method of dielectric recording has been used to fill the gaps in the time-frequency plane by repeating the signal samples. When signal reiteration is employed with this system, a score of 75 per cent of monosyllabic phonetically balanced word lists was obtained with a scanning filter of 1000-cps bandwidth and a sinusoidal scanning rate of 30 times per second. This intelligibility is appreciably higher than that which can be achieved with a fixed 1000-cycle filter located in the frequency region of maximum intelligibility."
"Derivation of a third playback channel from two stereo sound tracks may be accomplished by several means. The center channel may be derived by recombination prior to power amplification; acoustically, after amplification, by using two center speakers; and in a variety of phase relationships, including the limiting case of equal signals (monophonic) in which either sum or difference combination may be chosen by polarity selection."
"In amplifiers having emitter degeneration, an impedance is sometimes used between base and emitter. A common case occurs when several emitter followers are used in cascade. The resistors become necessary in order to provide some measure of stability. In an audio amplifier of similar design it became necessary to know what effect this shunt resistor would have upon the input impedance of the stage. As a result, the analysis given in this paper was performed. Experimental measurements which support the resulting equation are given. This analysis and these measurements led to the discovery of a circuit which would exhibit a high ac input impedance, yet the resistors in the dc base circuit could be kept low to provide good stability. Although it can be shown that circuit power gain is the same regardless of whether a resistor is used in series with the emitter or the base to obtain a high input impedance, considerations of dc stability and distortion demand a more thorough investigation of this problem. Design principles are outlined for this high input impedance stage and an example is worked out in detail. Supporting measurements are given."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"In transistors made by such techniques as solid-state diffusion, the doping density is not constant in the emitter and base regions. Tanenbaum and Thomas have given an expression for the emitter efficiency of such a transistor. The present work extends that treatment, and gives an expression for the base transport factor. Thus the current gain can be calculated for any arbitrary distribution of doping density. It is found that, for constant doping densities, the results from this treatment reduce to those usually given, (at least to the usual approximation), as they should. Two cases of some practical interest are that in which the doping density varies monotonically from one side of the base to the other, as in the \"drift transistor,\" and that in which the conductivity in the base region has a maximum somewhere within that region. Results for simplified forms of these two cases are presented in the form of graphs for convenience. Also, the result given by the present approximation for an exponential variation of doping density is compared with the exact calculation which can be made for this case."
"Traveling-wave tubes will oscillate if sufficient power is reflected at the input and the output of the tube; that is, if the loop gain is more than unity. As most tubes have large forward gain and matches (or loads) have some reflection, protection against oscillation is usually provided by return or backward loss. In most tubes the loss will be bilateral with the loss in the forward direction both absorbing power and reducing the rate of gain. The power absorbed subtracts from the power output and reduces the efficiency. This report presents the efficiency reduction due to power absorbed in the attenuator."
"The properties of an array of resonators coupled to a waveguide at their normally short-circuited ends are investigated. Methods of obtaining both normal and abnormal dispersion are indicated. Experimental measurements of dispersion and electronic impedance are compared with theoretical calculations. The effect of system parameters upon these characteristics is illustrated."
"A problem encountered in the design of crossed-field traveling-wave tubes (particularly M-type amplifiers or backward-wave oscillators) is a limitation on current due to the restricted cathode size in the usual gun systems. The scheme considered here incorporates into a crossed-field device the techniques commonly used in O-type devices for designing converging Pierce-type strip-beam guns, which can increase the effective cathode area by perhaps ten times. A design procedure is presented for getting a well-formed beam from such a gun, which is magnetically shielded, through a fringing crossed-field region into the uniform-field region of interaction. An analysis of electron flow through the fringing-field region, including the effect of space charge, is presented. A trajectory equation, solved on a digital computer, yields trajectories for the beam and design curves for various values of the important parameters. The results show the scheme to be feasible. Results are also presented from tests on an experimental, demountable tube used to test the focusing scheme. About 90 to 95 per cent of the current entering the crossed-field region could be focused to the collector, and the system behaved generally as the design predicted. An evaluation of the experimental data showed the scheme to be useful."
"Transistors having bases from 90 to 220 mils wide, with the base contact placed near the collector, have shown marked current gain increases with current, peaking at values from 0.1 to 0.3. This effect is due to drift of the injected carriers in the base electric field set up by the emitter current. If the base contact is placed near the emitter, only very small values of α are obtained. Germanium p-n-p-n diode and triode switches were made to operate primarily on the base field mechanism. They had one very wide (p-type) and one very narrow (n-type) base. The base contact for the switching triode may be placed either on the wide base but near the narrow base, or on the narrow base. In the latter case, much less current is required to switch the device from the high resistance to the high conductance region. When used as n transistor, the dc grounded base current gain of the p-n-p-n triode passes through unity at the turn-off current. A p-n-p-p+ structure, as a component part of the p-n-p-n triode with base contact on the wide base region, is shown to act as a switching diode in much the same way as the germanium p-n-pm unit. When the base contact is made to a narrow base bar-type transistor structure, overlap onto emitter and collector regions often results in a current gain that increases with current. This effect may also be utilized in making p-n-p-n switches."
"Using a parallel plane model, an analysis is made of the UHF electronics of triodes operating under Class B conditions. The theory, in its most general form, includes the effects of space charge in both the grid-cathode region and the plate-grid region. However, most of the solutions contained in this paper were obtained by neglecting space-charge effects in the plate-grid region. Over the wide range of UHF operating conditions investigated, it is found that the reduction of a triode's power output due to transit times is accounted for almost entirely by transit-time effects in the plate-grid region only. The principle effect of transit times in the grid-cathode region is to introduce a phase shift. This phase shift is quite important, however, for it contributes to a mechanism of regenerative feedback from output to input. The reduction of transit-time effects for a fixed operating frequency is limited by four factors: temperature-limited saturation of the cathode emission current, reliable mechanical spacing considerations, electrode dissipation capabilities, and amplifier bandwidth requirements. It is shown that there exists an optimum plate-grid spacing which leads to the highest possible RF output power consistent with the required bandwidth of the amplifier."
"The tube described in this paper has a pulsed output power of one megawatt with 9.6 per cent bandwidth, where bandwidth is defined as the 3db points for saturation power. Saturation gain is about 20 db, which is 6 db below the low-level gain. This is a space-harmonic S-band structure, designed to operate at a beam voltage of 105volts and perveance of 2 × 10-6. Field configurations for the lowest and next higher pass bands are drawn, based upon a field analysis and cold measurements. The impedance determined by perturbation measurements is compared to the impedance for the forced sinusoid inside a closed region, and it is found that the tube has about four times the minimum storage energy necessary to obtain the same bandwidth."
"The effect of space charge on bunching in a two-cavity klystron has been analyzed by many investigators, but no rigorous theory exists for large-signal bunching in a finite beam klystron. The various available theories are reviewed and compared with new experimental data on the subject. It is found that there is 25 per cent loss of bunching efficiency at the drift length which is currently accepted as optimum, namely, 90 degrees of an effective plasma wavelength. It is shown that to reduce this loss to 5 per cent, drift length should vary from 65 degrees of an effective plasma wavelength at\\gamma b= 0.5 to 45 degrees at\\gamma b= 2. Reasoning qualitatively from these measurements, the optimum drift lengths for a multicavity klystron are suggested to be: 90° : 90° : ... : 65°-45° : 30°."
"An electron-velocity spectrograph is described which can be used to measure the velocity distribution of electrons in a high-density electron beam modulated at microwave frequencies. The spectrograph employs a crossed electric and magnetic deflection system, has a resolution of less than one per cent in velocity, and a deflection region of very short length in order to minimize space-charge effects in the instrument. Results of measurements made with the instrument on a Brillouin-focused, gap-modulated electron beam of microperveance one are given. Measurements made on the dc beam indicate that nonlaminar flow effects are important for focusing fields of the order of and greater than the Brillouin focusing condition. Measurements of the RF velocity distribution at a point in the beam near the cavity gap have been found to agree with the predictions of kinematic bunching theory. A consequence of small-signal, space-charge-wave theory is that RF velocities should go to zero at a point in the beam a quarter of a reduced plasma wavelength from the cavity gap. This is confirmed by measurements made with this spectrograph."
"This paper gives a systematic account of three systems of independent space variables useful in small signal electron beam analyses--the familiar Eulerian, polarization, and hose systems. The continuity, dynamical, and power exchange equations are given for each of the three sets of variables, and the relative merits of each system are discussed. The inapplicability of the Lagrangian system to small signal beam problems is also indicated."
"During transient conditions, the maximum junction temperature is dependent on the energy delivered to the transistor. For resistive and capacitive loads, transient energy is delivered during the turn-on period because the internal space-charge capacity induces a forward current in the base, which is amplified. For an inductive load, energy is delivered during the turn-off period because of the high induced voltage. Analytical expressions are derived to show the different transistor parameters and circuit constants which influence the magnitude of transient energy. By far the most important parameter is the sustain voltage. If this voltage is exceeded in the resistive or capacitive load condition, the initial base current is amplified by a greatly increased current gain causing excessive dissipation. If the voltage induced in the inductive load exceeds the sustain voltage, the negative resistance collector characteristic may cause highly dissipative oscillations which usually destroy the transistor. The transistor may be protected from destruction by preventing the base from biasing in the reverse direction so as to avoid negative resistance."
"The characteristics of the commercial germanium microwave mixer crystal are reviewed. The conventional theory for these devices is discussed and criticized on the grounds that minority carrier storage phenomena are completely ignored. A model which includes this effect is proposed, and conversion loss calculations which include the effect of spreading resistance are presented for a highly idealized version of this model. Some possible explanations for the dc characteristics and for the success of the conventional fabrication techniques are offered."
"The transient behavior of the surface barrier and diffused junction transistors may be represented by an equivalent network consisting of two diodes and a nonlinear base resistance. Expressions for the nonlinear resistance, the base-emitter voltage time response, and the collector current time response are derived and tested experimentally. The equivalent circuit allows us to predict hole storage time for direct-coupled transistor logic (DCTL) circuits."
"Theoretical and experimental results are presented on the focusing of an electron beam by means of a magnet structure which produces, along the axis of the beam, a periodic magnetic field superimposed on a uniform field. The relation between space-charge and magnetic-field parameters for minimum ripple is derived. The flow in superimposed uniform and periodic magnetic fields is shown to be degraded from the flow of electrons in a magnetic field which has a sinusoidal variation along the axis. The results indicate the flow conditions to be expected, where such combined fields are unavoidable. The focusing of electron beams in this type of superimposed magnetic field and in Brillouin flow are compared."
"A method of increasing the peak-pulsed power output of broad-band traveling-wave tubes is described. The method involves the use of a modified bifilar helix for the slow-wave structure. The modification employs 1) special straps or 2) mode-selective attenuation to prevent backward-wave oscillation in the anti-symmetric mode. This results in the possibility of using helices in the symmetric mode at values of ka (circumference-to-free-space wavelength ratio) as large as 0.6 at the highest amplification frequency. This in turn makes possible an increase in peak-pulsed beam power of a factor of approximately sixteen times that possible with a single helix. Both analytical and experimental results regarding the behavior of the structures are presented showing the propagation characteristics. The experimental results include cold measurements to determine ω-β diagrams and measurements with an electron beam which yield experimental values of interaction impedance."
"The performance of a number of magnetrons using oxide nickel matrix L and impregnated types of cathodes is described. A discussion of the cathode structure, evacuation, seasoning, emission factor, arcing and life is included."
"This describes a simple and convenient measurement technique which quickly provides quantitative data on the heat-radiating abilities of electron tube anode (plate) materials. It permits direct evaluation and comparison of various materials under conditions normally present in tube operation."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"In this paper, the frequency characteristics of a half-wave p-n junction rectifier with a resistance load are analyzed for applied voltages greater than kT/q. Beginning with the derivation of an implicit integral equation which describes the large-signal operation of this circuit, the effect of frequency on the rectification efficiency is then obtained from an iterative numerical solution of this equation using an IBM 650 computer. Contrary to the small-signal theory developed by Kalashnikov and Penin, it is found that at higher applied voltages the half-power frequency is very dependent on voltage as well as load resistance, carrier lifetime and reverse saturation current. The relationships between the half-power frequency and these parameters are shown graphically and the results are compared to the small-signal theory for small applied voltages."
"A clear picture of the noise properties of semiconductor devices may be gained through a study of lumped models. When a semiconductor device is represented by a lumped model it is found that all the noise may be accounted for by associating a noise-current generator with each of the conductances appearing in the lumped model. The expressions describing these noise-current generators are easily found and the determination of the device noise properties involves only lumped model analysis. Such analysis applied to a diode model and a transistor model yields results which are in agreement with the results of other authors and with experimental measurements cited by them. The mechanisms considered in this paper do not, however, account for the so-called 1/f noise."
"A physical theory has been formulated for the operation of junction transistors in the \"collector-voltage-saturation\" region or \"on\" region. Transistor characteristics in this region are important for switching applications, Class A or Class B amplifiers, as well as other large signal applications. The formulation is based on the physical consideration that in the \"collector-voltage-saturation\" region the collector-base junction is forwardly biased, and that the injection level is high. Two-dimensional distributions of carrier densities, current densities, and electric field are obtained for separate portions of the base region. Using these distributions, theoretical expressions are derived for the characteristics of p-n-p and n-p-n transistors including saturation voltage, base input voltage, and dc current amplification factor. Good agreement between theoretical and experimental results indicates that the approximations used in the theory are valid. Numerical calculations have been carried out for the saturation voltage, base input voltage, and dc current amplification factor for different geometrics and material properties. The calculation illustrates the use of the theory for quantitative designs of transistor characteristics."
"A design theory for large signal base input voltage and input resistance of junction transistors is presented with emphasis on the effect of surface recombination and transistor geometry. Two-dimensional distributions of minority carrier density and electric field are obtained for the separate portions of the base region. These distributions are then expressed in terms of emitter current and are used to derive expressions for the large signal base input voltage and resistance. The dependence of carrier distribution on surface recombination velocity and transistor geometry is illustrated by curves. The theory is corroborated by a series of experiments carried out with p-n-p power transistors. The parameters varied are surface recombination velocity (by baking), emitter diameter, base ring diameter, dice thickness and base region resistivity. The measured base input voltage and resistance are plotted and compared with calculated values based on the theory presented. Good agreement is found between calculated and measured values. The results deviate in several interesting respects from the values predicted by the small signal or low injection level theory. Based on this theory, design considerations for the large signal input voltage and input resistance are discussed."
"According to Webster's phenomenological theory, the base current consists of three terms arising from 1) surface recombination 2) bulk recombination, and 3) non-unity emitter efficiency. In this paper, the diffusion equation inside the base region of an alloyed transistor is solved, and an analytic expression for the dc amplification factor is presented in terms of arbitrary bulk lifetime and surface-recombination velocity and the geometry of the transistor. The surface-recombination term depends on the distribution of the injected carriers along the emitter-base boundary, and hence, it increases as the emitter current increases on account of the base-resistance bias effect which tends to concentrate the minority carriers near the periphery of the emitter. The falloff in beta at high-emitter current is attributed mainly to an increase in the surface-recombination term, contrary to Webster's theory. A comparison with Webster's theory is made on units having the same bulk property but different surface treatments. Experimental results give strong support to the present theory."
"A method is described for the fabrication of a high-power silicon transistor capable of operating at case temperatures exceeding 100°C. Large-area transistors can be produced having uniform base widths of a few ten-thousandths of an inch. The base is established by the diffusion of impurities from a double-doped alloyed contact on the surface of the silicon. This device gives a common emitter current gain of greater than 30 at 10 amperes collector current and can dissipate 100 watts if the case temperature is held below 55°C. In addition it has constant common emitter current gain out to 200 kc, Hence this technique produces a power device combining both good current gain and frequency characteristics."
"A two-dimensional analysis of high-level transistor operation is presented which includes the effects of an extended base region, internal emitter biasing, γ-falloff, unequal collector and emitter dimensions, and surface recombination. The transistor model considered is directly appropriate to the strip-type geometry, but also yields results which are approximately valid for the ring-and dot-type structures under certain conditions. Transforming the geometry permits a solution to be obtained for the charge-density distribution in the base as well as the current density distribution at the emitter and collector junctions. From these relations, both the collector and emitter transport (diffusion) capacitances are also determined. Two complete numerical evaluations of the theoretical results are given, first for a symmetrical unit with equal emitter and collector dimensions, and second for an unsymmetrical unit with the collector dimension 24 per cent greater than that of the emitter. It is indicated that an appreciable fraction of the total base charge can exist external to the emitter and collector, particularly for very high-level operation, causing large increases (1.5 to 3 times the one-dimensional values) in both the emitter and collector transport capacitances, particularly for units having grossly extended base regions and low surface-recombination velocities. Further shown is the effect of increasing the collector dimension over that of the emitter; the capacitances are appreciably lowered and the transport efficiency (and thus the current gains) is increased. Finally, some collector transport capacitance measurements are presented covering the entire operating range which tend to substantiate the theoretical results."
"Curves are presented which give the dispersion and impedance characteristics of a flattened helix in the presence of a dielectric material and a metal shield. The impedance curves are very similar to the corresponding curves for a round helix whose circumference is equal to the perimeter of the flattened helix. The flattened helix has dispersion characteristics similar to a round helix whose diameter equals the flattened helix thickness."
"An investigation of the contrawound helix and the determination of its characteristics has been completed. By means of a hollow-beam traveling-wave tube and perturbation methods, the fundamental and minus-one space harmonics impedances have been measured and a number of space harmonics of the symmetric and antisymmetric modes identified. The fundamental impedance was measured to be equal or greater than the sheath-helix impedance depending, however, upon the thickness and width of the helix tape. The minus-one space harmonic impedance was measured to be larger than the fundamental impedance for ka > 0.65. The contrawound helix has been employed as a high-power X-band amplifier (8.5-9.5 kmc). The characteristics of the tube described are 25-db gain, power out > 1 kw, efficiency 7-10 per cent."
"Although electroluminescence and other field effects on luminescent materials are of fairly recent interest, the literature in this field is already quite voluminous. It is, therefore, believed that a bibliography covering these subjects may be of interest at this time. For convenience, the references have been classified into the following sections: 1) General references on electroluminescence; 2) General references on effects of electric fields in solids; 3) Electroluminescence in zinc sulfide; 4) Electroluminescence in other materials; 5) Field effects in excited phosphors; 6) Galvanoluminescence; 7) Applications of electroluminescence; 8) Patents. It is realized that this classification scheme (or probably any other system) is not perfect, as a single paper will often contain material appropriate to more than one of the above headings; here, however, each paper has been listed only once under what is considered to be the most appropriate heading. Abstracts have not been listed if the complete paper has also been published. Since patent titles are often not very explicit, descriptive comments have been added in most cases."
"The physical principles involved in the operation of the major types of variable-capacitance parametric amplifiers are reviewed and a qualitative explanation is given of the variable-capacitance effect in semiconductor diodes. The utilization of these principles and also of these diodes in a number of experimental, low-noise amplifiers is described. A comparison is given of the best noise performance obtained to date with experimental vacuum-tube amplifiers with that of parametric amplifiers. This paper is directed primarily at nonspecialists who wish to acquire some familiarity with a new and fast-moving field."
"It has generally been found that propagation of space-charge waves may be described 1) in space-charge-limited gaps by Gauss' hypergeometric functions, 2) in gaps with no space charge but with an accelerating homogeneous field by Bessel functions with real argument; and 3) in spaces free of dc fields by simple trigonometric functions. The equations derived become simpler through the selection of the dc velocity u, rather than the time t, as the independent variable."
"The single-velocity treatment of ac disturbances in electron flow is often accurate enough even when the flow actually has an infinitely broad but peaked velocity distribution, such as a Maxwellian or a bell-shaped distribution. In seeking a better approximation, one is tempted to expand in terms of the moments of the velocity distribution and to disregard terms beyond that involving the second moment. This leads to a dispersion equation describing waves which strictly do not exist. A linearized analysis by transform methods predicts a field which oscillates in an exponentially damped manner. This is not the oscillation of a normal mode, however, for various velocity classes of the charge distribution have ac densities which grow with time. This indicates that the linear expression will hold over a finite interval only. A simple example which compares a multi-stream analysis with an analysis based on the charge density in phase space (the distribution function) indicates the same sort of failure of both of the linearized theories at large times. Thus, it appears that the failure is characteristic of the problem rather than of the method of solution. The method of solution is a matter of choice."
"Theoretical and experimental considerations are presented in this paper for a self-excited frequency multiplier in which the fundamental oscillator is an integral cavity two-gap klystron and a harmonic resonator is placed at an appropriate position in the drift tube between the two gaps. This is a new device and it is called a drift-tube klystron frequency multiplier abbreviated as DTKFM. A general design procedure is given, based on both theoretical equations and experimental characteristics. Operation of the self-excited DTKFM with fundamental oscillations at 4 and 1 cm and harmonics at 1 cm and 5 mm respectively, is presented. The device is capable of generating larger CW output power at millimeter wavelengths than many existing devices."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"M-type traveling-wave tubes use electron beams that drift in crossed electric and magnetic fields. One such tube, the axiotron described by Warnecke and Doehler in 1950, used a hollow beam drifting parallel to the tube axis in a radial electric field crossed by an azimuthal magnetic field. The addition of an axial magnetic field to the azimuthal one adds another degree of complication and flexibility to the beam equations, yet maintains their symmetry about the tube axis. It gives, in effect, a helical magnetic field crossed by a radial electric field. This report examines the behavior of hollow electron beams drifting in laminar flow through fields of the latter configuration. It defines a stability index for electron paths, and four fairly general types of beam. It determines the stability index and the distribution of space charge obtainable in each type as functions of the amplitudes and directions of the fields and drift velocities. In general, the density tends to be greatest at the inner beam radius, but it is possible to approach uniform density in stable beams. This report does not consider beam launching nor the \"gun\" problem; nor does it consider over-all beam instabilities such as scalloping."
"The behavior of a cylindrical electron beam in a magnetic field is discussed in terms of a laminar-flow model. By numerical integration of the equations of motion, the maximum and minimum radii of excursion and the wavelength of the undulations for each electron are presented in graphical form for various boundary conditions on the electron beam. By the proper selection of the boundary conditions, e.g., magnetic field strength at the cathode, the graphs are utilized to describe Brillouin flow, space-charge-balanced flow, immersed flow, confined flow, and, in fact, any electron flow which satisfies the laminar flow criterion. The perturbations introduced by improper injection conditions for any of the flows mentioned can be read directly from the graphs. A study of the wavelength and the amplitude of such perturbations as a function of radial position in the beam determines if a given type of flow with given injection conditions satisfies the laminar flow criterion. The sensitivity of the various types of electron flow to misadjustments of the boundary conditions is clearly revealed by the graphs; e.g., the amplitude of the undulations in Brillouin flow is very sensitive to the adjustment of the magnetic field strength whereas, for immersed flow, a similar deviation in magnetic field strength has very little effect on the amplitude of the undulations."
"A \"formed\" n-type germanium point-contact diode is qualitatively reminiscent of an idealized model that comprises an abrupt hemispherical p-n junction, both regions of which may have moderate resistivity, terminated on the inner (p) and outer (n) sides by hemispherical ohmic contacts. The extent to which this model can be justified quantitatively is investigated. Low-injection analyses of the static and small-signal, frequency-dependent properties suggest that the model is capable of predicting the corresponding experimentally-observed behavior. Consideration of space-charge-layer widening with reverse bias allows the computation of breakdown and punch-through voltages, which correspond in magnitude range to the observed peak inverse voltages of formed germanium point contacts. A high-injection analysis of the static forward characteristic indicates approximate agreement between theory and experiment, even for the nonlinear spreading resistance."
"A semiconductor device similar in principle to the injecting-drain-field-effect transistor, having wide ranges of controllable negative resistance which can be used in counting, flip-flop, amplifying, and oscillator circuits, is described. The negative resistance arises from the modulation of the current between two ohmic contacts of circular symmetry, on a flat semiconductor wafer, by the effect of the collection of minority carriers on the pinching potential of a collector electrode. Families of negative resistance, of either the shunt or series type, are obtainable depending upon the mode of operation. Power gains of 60 and thermal dissipation of 1/4 watt have been achieved in liquid cooled units the size of high-frequency transistors. An improved sandwich-type base tab for mounting semiconductor wafers is shown. A theoretical analysis of the operation of the device permits prediction of the effect of various physical parameters upon the static electrical characteristics."
"The transient behavior of a two-level spin system coupled to an electric circuit is investigated by using the equations of Bloembergen and Pound. The equations are solved, in the limit where the circuit ringing time is very short compared with all other characteristic times, for two cases: 1) the spin-lattice and spin-spin relaxation times both infinite, with an externally applied driving field, and 2) the spin-lattice relaxation time infinite but the spin-spin relaxation time finite, in the absence of an external field. In case 1), it is shown that the motion of an initially inverted magnetization under the action of an applied signal consists roughly of two stages: in the first stage, the effect of radiation damping is unimportant and the motion of the system is determined principally by the applied signal via the ordinary Bloch equations, whereas in the second stage, the motion is essentially the same as if the applied signal had been turned off and only radiation damping were present. In case 2), it is shown that a delayed peak in the emitted radiation should be observed under certain conditions. The delayed peak condition is identical with that derived by Bloom. Curves are presented showing the peak power and the time at which the delayed peak occurs as functions of the relevant parameters. In connection with the ordinary maser behavior of a two-level spin system, it is shown that for values of the parameters typical of steady-state maser amplification, the effects of radiation damping should be unimportant. Finally, systems are examined for which the radiation damping time is much shorter than all other characteristic times (super-regenerative systems). It is indicated how such systems might be operated as one-shot multivibrators or as linear amplifiers. For the latter type of operation, an expression for the gain is derived which is found to be similar to that encountered in ordinary circuit theory."
"A collector for a beam-type tube with an axial magnetic focusing field can be made to operate at a potential near cathode potential without returning secondary electrons, if the beam is deflected and caused to pass an asymmetrical electrode properly positioned in the axially symmetric magnetic focusing field. Collection takes place in a region of radial electric field. Experimental results on such a device indicate successful operation, provided the velocity spread in the beam is not too large."
"Two versions of an electrostatic focusing and deflection system suitable for camera tube applications are described. Focusing properties, resolution and aberrations are discussed."
"The literature bearing on the cracking of semiconductor devices due to thermally induced strains is reviewed. A model is developed to describe in qualitative terms, the stress distribution and mechanics of cracking; and the significant variables of the cracking process are summarized. The remedial measures which have been proposed as solutions to the cracking problem are discussed. An analytical model is given which describes the stress distribution in the chip of a semiconductor device, and predicts a location of maximum stress which is in agreement with experimental results. A formula is derived for the calculation of the maximum semiconductor tensile stress in an elastic model. The modifications required of the model in cases of inelastic behavior are discussed. Three appendices are given to present: l) experimental methods of crack detection, 2) analytical design methods for tabbed device structures, and 3) references for some structural properties of germanium and silicon."
"A complementary pair of medium-power high-speed switching transistors was required to satisfy the needs of an electronic switching system. Units have been designed and produced which exhibit a median cutoff frequency of 7 mc and a punch-through voltage of 70 volts. High yields have been achieved on established production lines by very close manufacturing controls of the critical alloying variables, namely, germanium wafer thickness, alloyed junction area, concentricity, mass of alloying material, alloying temperature, and special material properties such as orientation and etch-pit density. A vacuum-tight transistor structure has been designed to permit the dissipation of one-half watt of power at 25°C in free air. The structure embodies an all-copper cold-welded encapsulation for efficient heat removal. Important techniques concerning the cold-welding process will be discussed, and the particular die contour used will be illustrated in some detail. Additional cleanliness advantages are obtained by use of the cold welded seal."
"Two improved methods for the measurement of cathode interface impedance have been developed, and their limitations have been analyzed. One of these, the complementary network method, is an improvement of a technique disclosed at the IRE National Convention in 1952. The other, the shunt admittance bridge, has not been described previously. Both methods allow the measurement of impedance with both small resistance and short time constant, well below the limit, 50 ohms at 0.1 µsec, of most present equipments. With the development of improved cathode alloys, the measurement of interface impedances having short time constants and low resistances has become important to control this parameter in manufacture and to obtain further improvement. For the complementary-network bridge, the theoretical analysis has shown the extreme importance of minimizing stray inductance in the complementary network. When corrections are applied, the complementary-network bridge has good accuracy, with less than one-ohm error at 10 ohms and 0.05 µsec and lower relative errors for higher resistances. The shunt admittance bridge is most satisfactory when tubes with transconductances greater than 10,000 µmho are to be measured. An impedance transformation is used which allows much easier physical realization of the measurement network than in other interface measurement methods. For tubes with transconductances greater than 10,000 µmho, the shunt admittance bridge will provide accurate time constant and resistance data down to 0.02 µsec and 5 ohms."
"The maximum power density which may be switched at (switching time/current gain) quotients comparable to 1/2πfαis shown to be 105- 4 × 105watts/cm2for p-n-p germanium transistors. This result is derived first for junction triodes in which the collector depletion layer at peak reverse voltage lies largely in a collector body of conductivity type opposite to that of the base; e.g., diffused base transistors of the mesa type. The limitation arises from the linear dependence of maximum (scattering limited) current density(J_{\\max})on collector-body impurity concentration(N_{Ac})and from the approximately reciprocal dependence of breakdown voltage(BV_{CB})on the same parameter. It is shown that space-charge limitation of current dennsity leads to a somewhat lower limit for intrinsic collector barriers of the same maximum width and, a fortiori, to a lower value for collector barriers lying largely in material of the same conductivity type as the base layer. Similar limits for n-p-n germanium and for silicon transistors are higher but generally comparable."
"An analysis of two propagating structures periodically coupled together, based on a method developed by J. R. Pierce, is presented. A periodic structure that supports a backward wave may be coupled to a structure that supports a forward wave by coupling to alternate cells of the former. The coupling is completely analogous to the case of continuously coupled waves; i.e., energy is transferred back and forth between the two guides periodically and the period of the transfer is inversely proportional to the strength of the coupling. The period of the transfer is also a function of the number of couplers per unit length. A method of measuring the coupling coefficient is presented and application to a coupled-structure attenuator is discussed."
"The small-signal equivalent parallel capacity of forward-biased semiconductor junctions is strongly dependent on the current. At very low currents (less than 10 µa for a junction area of 1 mm2) the capacity appears to be chiefly due to space charge effects. For currents up to approximately 100 µa, the capacity complies with Shockley's predicted low-level theory. For larger currents, however, there is a definite deviation from the low-level diffusion predominance and capacity reaches a maximum after which it decreases through zero and then goes to large inductive values. The latter phenomena is explained, qualitatively, by considering an inductance in series with the diffusion capacity. The capacity increases linearly with current but the inductance (due to conductivity modulation) increases faster. The result is that a change from an equivalent RC circuit to an equivalent RL circuit is made at high enough currents (5 ma is a typical value for the 1 mm2junction area). Measurements were made on abrupt silicon junction diodes with junction areas of about 7 × 10-4, 10-2, 10-1cm2and on the emitter junction (about 5 × 10-5cm2) of a diffused base silicon transistor."
"The effects of electrode resistance on the voltage drop, the power dissipation, and the equivalent circuit constants of electroluminescent cells have been calculated by means of linear transmission line theory. In practice, electroluminescent cells have nonlinear characteristics which make the actual problem very difficult to solve. It is believed, however, that the present considerations serve to give a qualitative picture of the effects of electrode resistance in actual cells."
"The reverse recovery characteristic of a semiconductor diode depends not only on the crystal properties and the physical dimensions of the diode but also on the circuit in which it is used. The effects of the circuit parameters, namely, forward current, reverse voltage and reverse loop impedance, on the diode recovery characteristics were studied experimentally on germanium and silicon junction diodes. The results are given in curves which illustrate the relationships between these circuit parameters and the maximum reverse current, as well as the constant current duration. Based on these curves, circuit applications were developed. The experiments on a pulse amplifier performed by the National Bureau of Standards, were repeated. The results showed a maximum power gain of 22 db per stage. Four pulse modulator circuits were designed. They are amplitude modulator, sampler, pulse duration and position modulators. Linearity and frequency response tests on these modulator circuits were conducted. The results indicated that they have small distortion and flat frequency response from dc up to several tens of kilocycles per second. Modifications of the pulse amplitude modulator provides amplifiers for continuously varying signals. Four such circuits are given."
"One of the more significant uses of the p-n junction variable capacitor is as an HF (> 100 mc) tuning element. Structures which have been available have had rather low Q at these frequencies. In order to determine the limits imposed on Q by the physics of the device, a fundamental study has been made of the problems of the HF junction capacitor. Equations have been developed for the prediction of Q in alloyed and diffused structures. Optimization criteria are proposed which permit design of capacitors in which Q is no longer a significant limitation. In support of the theory, experimental results are presented on units designed and fabricated in accordance with the optimization criteria. Q's in excess of 500 have been observed at 100 mc."
"It has been shown that in an electron beam with Brillouin focusing, two pairs of space-charge waves are possible. One pair has the peculiar property of having no RF charge density in the volume of the beam, with most of the current being caused by ripples of the boundary. This paper shows that, in the case of modulation by the gridless gap of a klystron, it is only these space-charge waves which are excited in the electron beam. This result has also been verified elsewhere by experiment. In addition to the detailed calculation, a simple proof is given which demonstrates why one gets the particular behavior predicted by the detailed theory, namely, a modulated beam with no RF charge density in the volume. This effect arises from the fact that the modulation is produced by an electric field with zero divergence, and therefore the RF velocity produced also has zero divergence. Zero divergence of the velocity is the condition for an incompressible fluid; i.e., constant density. In the case of modulation by a grid, the electric field does not have zero divergence and this kind of behavior does not occur."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Large signal bunching processes in the presence of space charge are studied by extending techniques used to compute multi-cavity klystron bunching. Bunching capability of traveling-wave and standing-wave systems is examined by using an assumed spatial and time distribution of electric field, and interesting high degrees of bunching are predicted."
"A theoretical study is made of oscillations in an ion plasma, which is in an electron beam. The effect of ion motion on the electrons is neglected, and the ions and the electrons are assumed to have constant and equal density in the equilibrium position. Symmetric and transverse oscillations are studied, both in planar and cylindrical geometry. For planar geometry, the frequency of oscillations for both symmetric and transverse modes is independent of amplitude, while the frequency increases with amplitude for cylindrical symmetric oscillations. For both cylindrical and planar geometry, the presence of the anode boundaries reduces the frequency for transverse ion oscillations, but does not affect the frequency for symmetric-type oscillations."
"The paper discribes an approach to the problem of picture tube guns for small signal service. A Pierce-type cathode delivers a collimated parallel beam of 1600 microamperes at 250 volts (microperveance: 0.4). This beam is injected into a cylindrical cavity of appreciable length (3/4-inch long, 1/4-inch diameter). It is focused upon a small aperture at the far end using a parabolic axis potential. This axial focusing field is approximated by three cylinder segments at two intermediate voltages. To modulate the beam by lateral deflection, the cavity is again bisected through an axial plane and signal voltage is set up between half cylinders. This modulation by two crossed-electrostatic fields (\"CFM\" modulation) has been successfully applied in transistorized television, using a seven-volt video signal on a beam of 900 microamperes."
"Diffused silicon nonlinear capacitors have been fabricated by solid-state diffusion. The resulting graded p-n junction is a planar structure which permits low series resistance Rsrelative to the minimum capacitanceC_{\\min}, which is measured at a reverse voltage slightly less than the breakdown voltage. A cutoff frequencyf_{c} = (2\\piR_{s}C_{\\min})^{-1}is used as a figure of merit; values up to 150 kmc have been obtained. These \"varactor\" diodes may be used as UHF and microwave amplifiers and as harmonic generators. The noise figures of the UHF amplifiers are better than the best noise figures obtainable by present electron-tube techniques. These diodes are also efficient harmonic generators."
"The focusing electrode and a probe projecting through the cathode serve as control electrodes for the current from a convergent-beam electron gun. The principal advantage of this type of \"grid\" is that there is no interception of the high-current-density beam by the probe-grid. This paper presents the design procedure and experimental results for typical probe-gridded guns. The design procedure is used to obtain the desired perveance, beam diameter, and approximate laminar electron flow. The probe geometry that results in a minimum beam distortion is discussed. The range of values of amplification factor obtainable and the influence of probe geometry on this factor are discussed. The magnetic field required for focusing the beam from a probe-gridded gun is compared with that required for perfect laminar flow and for focusing the beam from a nongridded gun of similar design. An electrolytic tank in conjunction with an analog computer was used to plot electron trajectories, with the effect of space charge included, for the probe-gridded gun and a similar nongridded gun. A comparison of the electron optics of the gridded and nongridded gun is made. Electrical breakdown and beam current during the interpulse time are problems considered. Methods used to minimize electrical breakdown and interpulse beam current are presented. Several models of probe-gridded guns were constructed. The measured characteristics of these guns demonstrate that the advantages of grid control can be obtained with only a minor effect on gun perveance and beam focusing."
"This paper treats a secondary emitter as a fixed-temperature thermionic emitter with an equivalent work function which depends for its value upon the current density of the incident primary electrons. This permits Langmuir's treatment of the parallel-plane thermionic diode to be applied to secondary emission. The resulting equations account quantitatively for observed secondary-emission effects caused by space charge and initial electron velocities. The paper concludes with a discussion of three specific electron devices in which secondary-emission effects due to space-charge and initial electron velocity are important."
"This paper outlines a calculation of space-charge layer width in a planar junction made by diffusing an n or p impurity (assumed to follow a Gaussian or a complementary error function distribution) into a uniformly doped crystal of opposite conductivity type. The collector junction of most drift transistors conforms closely to this model. An exponential approximation to the impurity distribution permits curves to be drawn of the space-charge layer penetration in each direction from the junction as a function of applied reverse voltage, and of the electric field distribution. The quantities involved are normalized in terms of the initial doping level N1, the impurity diffusion lengthL = 2 \\sqrt{Dt}, and the junction depth xj. The curves should be useful in calculating depletion-layer capacitance, transistor punch-through voltage and junction breakdown voltage."
"Periodic magnetic fields are being widely used for the light-weight focusing of beams in high-power traveling-wave tubes. In many tube designs, there exists a considerable amount of radial variation in the magnetic focusing field. The effect of this radial field variation is investigated analytically as an extension of the previous work in this field. The usual design curves of α vs β are plotted with three variable parameters: ripple, cathode shielding parameterK, and radial field variation parameter x0. It is noted that it is important to keep the magnetic-field strength constant at the beam edge over a considerable variation of the magnetic-field parameter x0."
"Separate calculations are carried out to determine the influence of true, low-energy secondary electrons and of higher-energy backscattered electrons released from the anode of the parallel-plane, space-charge limited diode. Both groups depress the potential, increase the field near the anode, and decrease the net diode current by small but appreciable amounts."
"The Amplitron device is analyzed from a normal mode viewpoint based on predominance of the reentrant character of the stream; the analysis is therefore valid for devices with short electron recirculation times and moderate signal levels. The nature of the space charge deduced from the above hypothesis is that of a rotating set of identical spokes having equal angular spacing in the interaction space. The induction effects of this space charge configuration upon the delay line are calculated, accounting for the periodic nature and the short length of the delay line. It is found that both forward-and backward-traveling waves are appreciable and must be considered. The fields in the interaction space are resolved into Fourier component traveling waves. The amplitude of the synchronously interacting wave is related to 1) the input signal, 2) the forward-traveling wave resulting from space charge induction, and 3) the backward-traveling wave resulting from space charge induction. Use is made of the phase relation (adiabatic theory) between the space charge and the synchronously traveling wave to obtain a consistent solution determining the phase relation between the input wave and the space charge. The above relationship between the space charge and the input signal allows the calculation of complex (vector) gain of the Amplitron. It is thus shown that the Amplitron is a nonlinear, or saturated, amplifier. A limit to the gain is observed; the backward-traveling wave is essential in determining it. Phase-dependence on operating RF level, or RF phase pushing, is noted; this type of phase variation does not exceed 90°. Calculations as a function of frequency show the bandwidth to be expected. It is found that conditions may lead to oscillation; feedback mechanisms reside in the backward-traveling wave and in the stream reentrance. The degree of input mismatch of the operating tube is discussed."
"The principles of low-noise guns have been applied to klystron amplifiers with good corroboration of the theory. In the past, many people thought that klystrons had inherently high noise figures, while others advanced the theory that low-noise guns might be used with klystrons as well as with wave tubes. The development to be described here shows that the former impression is not true and verifies that low-noise klystron amplifiers are possible. The most obvious difference between the guns for low-noise klystron amplifiers and those typical of low-noise traveling-wave tubes is the higher beam current which is required for adequate klystron gain. A byproduct of this higher current is a wide dynamic range. In addition to the development of the electrical parameters, a major effort went into klystron construction techniques somewhat peculiar to low-noise klystron amplifiers. The data taken show that alignment of the low-noise gun electrodes with the drift tube, alignment of the beam with the magnetic field, elimination of the collector's secondary electrons from the beam, and cleanliness of the tube are of primary importance in constructing a low-noise klystron amplifier. Several two-cavity, low-noise klystron amplifiers were built for operation in both S-band and C-band. The typical low-level gain was 11.5 db, and the saturated power output was 180 mw. Several tubes exhibited noise figures below 9 db; the lowest value obtained was 6.7. db."
"Low-voltage helix-type backward-wave oscillators require a starting current that rises to infinity toward the low-frequency end of the tuning range. The effect has been attributed to the raising of the space-charge parameter QC by the dc space-charge-induced velocity spread. H. R. Johnson has calculated the velocity-spread effect on starting current qualitatively, but the predicted nonoscillation frequency is generally much lower than the observed one. As a further analysis, space-charge wave propagation in an electron beam having an actual cross-sectional variation of dc velocity is investigated. It is shown that the RF current modulation in the slow space-charge wave is concentrated in the region of the slowest-moving electrons. In a helix-type backward-wave oscillator using a hollow beam, the slower electrons are farther away from the RF circuit, so that the effective impedance for the slow space-charge wave may be considerably reduced. The use of an impedance reduction factor therefore provides better agreement between theory and experiment with regard to the starting-current phenomenon. Theoretical and experiment results of the investigation are presented."
"The characteristics of a cylindrical field-effect transistor are derived analytically on the basis of Shockley's theory of the planar field-effect transistor. It is found that the cylindrical device is capable of giving twice the (voltage) amplification factor of that of the planar device. Its frequency behavior should be comparable to that of the Shockley unit. Because of the loss of one degree of freedom, the transconductance and power characteristics of the cylindrical field-effect transistor are sharply limited. Experimental data support the analytical results."
"A small-signal formulation is developed which is valid for multicavity klystrons with nonideal gaps. The complete one-dimensional description of modulation at the gap is given, including the modifications due to space-charge forces. Stagger-tuned amplifiers are treated by matrix and by scalar methods. Equations useful for electronic computation of response are presented. The necessity for the formulation, and its validity, are discussed."
"In order to avoid untractable calculations, the transistor four-pole is assumed to be short-circuited for ac at its output. Furthermore, the internal impedance of the signal source is assumed to be zero. First the nonlinear distortion effects in a grounded base intrinsic transistor are calculated. Then, the formulas are reverted to a grounded emitter intrinsic transistor, taking into account the extrinsic base lead resistance. They are confirmed by measurements of third harmonic distortion and of cross modulation. The measured curves of cross modulation vs collector bias current show a sharp minimum. This unexpected effect is explained by an extension of the theory, which takes into account previously neglected terms. The explanation is successfully tested by experiments. Comparisons with cross modulation in amplifier tubes are made."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Although periodic-permanent-magnet-focused traveling-wave tubes using magnetically shielded convergent-flow electron guns are available with a wide range of gain and power-output characteristics, the noise figure of such tubes is usually of the order of 25 db or higher. In some applications, this noise figure is a limiting factor. This paper describes traveling-wave tubes of the periodic-permanent-magnet-focused type having octave coverage at L, S, and C bands and noise figures of the order of 12 to 16 db. This reduction of noise figure is achieved through the use of a multi-electrode parallel-flow electron gun in which both the noise-reducing electrodes and the cathodes are immersed in a uniform magnetic field. The remainder of the tube, which is less critical for noise, operates in a conventional periodic-permanent-magnet focusing structure. A typical tube at S-band has a noise figure of the order of 13 db, a small-signal gain of 40 db, and a power output of 20 milliwatts. The same general order of performance has been achieved at both L and C bands. Design features which permit tube operation under severe environmental conditions are also discussed, and some typical environmental performance data are presented."
"This paper reports the results of a feasibility study aimed at the development of a travelling wave amplifier in the frequency range 35-40 kmc with noise figure less than 15 db. The designs built and tested have emphasized the use of circuits which are large for the frequency range, the sizes varying from ka = 0.1 to ka = 0.4. This is the largest practical size due to the propagation of the TE11 coaxial mode between helix and shield. The smallest tubes have used confined solid beams and have attained noise figures of 13 db. The large tubes will use hollow beams of the Currie-Forster and Magnetron Injection type in the hope of securing lower noise figures and better focusing. Data are given which describe the construction of the tubes and the experimental results obtained. The noise figure values will be correlated with theory, using the methods of R.W. Peter."
"A developmental C-band traveling-wave tube with gain of 20b and noise figure in the 4.5 db range is described. The tube is characterized by operation with a hollow electron beam and employs permanent magnet focusing in which a peaked magnetic field is produced at the cathode. In order to improve the \"d\" factor, a ratio of beam diameter to helix diameter of the order of 0.75 is employed. In addition to improving the noise performance, the peaking of the magnetic field at the cathode aids in achieving this close beam-helix coupling. The tube is matched to1.37\" \\times .200\"waveguide with a return loss of better than 20 db over a 10% bandwidth. Some additional features of interest from the viewpoint of system applications are presented."
"This paper reports on recent progress and experience in building and operating low-noise electron-beam parametric amplifiers in the frequency range from 400 to 900 mc. Particular attention is devoted to characteristics which are of interest from a circuit or systems standpoint: bandwidth, gain stability, phase shift and input match. To realize the potential broad-band characteristics of the quadrupole amplifier, the resonant behavior of the electron beam is utilized by making the beam form one branch of a bandpass filter network which is then completed by appropriate external circuits. Methods of adjusting practical amplifiers for optimum bandwidth are illustrated. Measured data agree well with the theory, permitting systematic design of future models."
"The Backward-Wave Amplifier is a very useful pre-amplifier for microwave receivers. Its selectivity, crystal protection and low noise figure offer advantages in various communication and radar systems. An X-band BWA has been developed which has produced minimum noise figures of 4.5\" db. These tubes operate with the following characteristics over the 8.5 - 9.5 kMc frequency range: gain 20 db, noise figure less than 5.5 db with minimum of 4.5 db, bandwidth12 mc \\pm 2mc, 6.5 mc/volt tuning rate. The important parameters which determine these characteristics will be described. The tube is encapsulated in a novel waveguide package that uses semicircular waveguide. This package provides waveguide input and output terminations in a minimum cross-sectional area."
"A simple process for the fabrication of all-diffused germanium NPN mesa transistors is described. The starting material is an N-type wafer with a P-type diffused skin. A key feature of the process is the use of a film of silicon monoxide evaporated through a mask to coat selected regions of the germanium wafer. The silicon monoxide serves as a diffusion mask to restrict the subsequent diffusion of N-type emitter doping elements to uncoated regions of the wafer. Ohmic contacts to the emitter and base regions are made by vacuum evaporation through appropriate masks. The process is applicable to a wide range of NPN transistors and permits excellent control of device geometry and electrical characteristics. The process is discussed in connection with the development of a high-speed switching transistor. Essential characteristics of this device are: emitter breakdown voltage--5 volts, base resistance--150 ohms, common base alpha frequency cut-off > 500 megacycles, common emitter current gains--100."
"A high power, high voltage germanium transistor has been fabricated using solid-state diffusion to form the emitter and collector junctions. The collector junction is designed to give high breakdown voltage. This is obtained through a low surface concentration and shallow gradient. The emitter junction approximates a step junction to give high emitter efficiency. The NPN transistor is made using a 15-25 Ω cm P-type pellet. The collector diffusion is a carefully controlled two-step process. A skin of antimony is formed from a powdered antimony germanium source. The collector junction is formed by a subsequent diffusion. The emitter diffusion utilizes an arsenic germanium source to obtain high surface concentration."
"Solid state diffusion techniques with all of its advantages are used to produce a PNP transistor that has desirable high frequency characteristics. The processes used in making the device provide a high degree of uniformity and ease of manufacturing. Oxide masking by means of silicon dioxide and photolithographic methods provide an exposed base area at the surface and localized emitters. Measurements from photomicrographs have given base widths of about .00005 inch to .00007 inch and the emitter layer is about .0001 inch thick. Stripe geometry is used in fabricating transistors from diffused material, and the emitter and base stripes are pure gold, .001 inch by .006 inch spaced about .001 inch apart. High-frequency parameters for the experimental devices have been equal to those of NPN units measured to date. Cut-off frequencies as high as 300 Mc/s have been measured and several diffusion runs have yielded devices with cut-off frequencies of 100-150 Mc/s. The input resistance is about 60 - 140 ohms and collector capacitance is about 2 - 3 µµfd. The breakdown voltage for most units is about 20 - 30 volts; however, the transistors with higher cut-off frequencies have lower breakdown voltages."
"Electrochemical techniques combined with solid state diffusion and surface alloying have been utilized to produce a high frequency, high speed NPN silicon switching transistor. Special jet etching and plating solutions with a newly developed infrared controlled etching action are used to precisely place the emitter and collector electrodes in the graded-base region. Gotd whisker wire contacts are fused directly to the 3.5 and 6.5 mil diameter gold-antimony-silicon electrodes without any solder or contaminating fluxes. As in the germanium MADT, the etnire process is readily adaptable to fast automatic transfer production with step-to-step feedback of information for immediate unit-to-unit in-process control."
"Small-area mesa-type gallium-arsenide diffused diodes for use as variable reactances are described. These devices have been made by the diffusion of zinc into n-type material with net impurity density ranging from2.0 \\times 10^{16}atoms/cm3through1 \\times 10^{18}atoms/cm3. Cutoff frequencies, fco, above 100 kilomegacycles have been obtained for diodes made from this material. The fabrication of these devices will be described in detail with especial reference to diffusion techniques, methods of making ohmic contacts, and etching techniques. Packaging procedures used and their relation to problems arising in both the fabrication of these devices and the measurements made upon them will be discussed. The electrical characteristics of these diodes will be discussed as well as the microwave measurement techniques used in evaluating the cutoff frequencies."
"This paper presents solutions to some of the problems encountered in the fabrication of high-temperature junction diodes from gallium arsenide and indium phosphide. The physical problems peculiar to these compound semiconductors are reviewed, including diffusion techniques, surface characteristics, contacting techniques, and methods for mounting and encapsulation for high-temperature operation. Typical cross-section areas of junctions on both materials are shown, and etching and staining techniques are discussed. A summary is given of the electrical characteristics of alloyed, plated, and evaporated contacts on n-and p-type samples. The electrical characteristics of diffused diodes are given for operation at room temperature and at 300 degrees centigrade with reverse breakdowns of 100 volts and forward currents of one-half ampere."
"The development of a radically new barrier-grid storage tube is described. The tube utilizes a spherically-curved target assembly 4.5 inches in diameter with a 4.5 inch radius of curvature in which the barrier grid is fused to the dielectric surface. The center of deflection of the electrostatically focused and deflected electron gun is essentially coincident with the center of curvature of the target; thus, the beam strikes the target at normal incidence throughout. The total deflection angle of the electron beam is 60° and means are provided for concentrating 10 µa of beam current into an 8-mil spot (measured at the 5% points on the current density distribution curve) and for dynamic focusing of the beam throughout the target area involving dynamic correction of the deflection defocusing. Either collector or target readout may be employed. The collector section of the tube is designed to uniformly and efficiently collect the signal electrons from the target so that the signal shading is negligible. Contact to the collector is made by a coaxial lead through the bulb wall. The target end of the tube is designed so that contact to the target is with a coaxial lead in which the barrier grid is connected to the outer shield of the coax. Techniques for depositing a uniform porcelain enamel layer on the spherically-curved target bowl and for forming and fusing the barrier grid to the insulator surface are described. In addition, the design of the electron gun is described in detail."
"A new concept in direct-view half-tone storage tube operation has been developed, based on the use of a special storage target which exhibits dual charging phenomena. One phenomenon, secondary emission, charges the storage surface positively, while the other, bombardment induced conductivity, charges it toward the backplate potential, which in this case is negative. Selection of the charging effect, and therefore the charging direction, is determined by the incident beam energy. At lower beam energies the secondary emission effect predominates, while at higher energies bombardment induced conductivity prevails. This is in contrast to the operation of conventional direct-view half-tone storage tubes which depend only on secondary emission for both positive and negative charging. With such a mode of operation, it is not practical to achieve either selective erasure or non-storage writing. Selective erasure is the ability to rapidly erase one or more of the smallest written elements as distinct from erasure of the entire storage target. By non-storage writing is meant the presentation of cathode-ray information on the viewing screen without disturbing the written or erased areas of the storage target."
"Several electronic systems have been devised to obtain access to crossed-grid or x-y electroluminescent panels. These panels incorporate a continuous layer of glass-imbedded electroluminescent phosphor overlaid by an impedance-matched non-linear resistive layer. This layer is used to suppress the cross-light effect which results from half voltage excitation on the coordinate lines. Arrays with 16 elements to the linear inch have been prepared. Brightness-voltage data are presentd for panels operating in the frequency range of low audio to 300 kc. Magnetron beam switching tubes are employed as the basic switching and modulating elements for both sequential scanning and random access operation. A fast sequential, single pulse system, capable of element excitation in the low microsecond range is described. Where the panel frame time is not critical, an ac burst system is feasible. The random access system is also described. The principle of this system has been demonstrated in a 100- element panel audio-frequency oscilloscope."
"Segmented electroluminescent panels that can display one of a set of characters on a single display area, and which require a minimum of display information, have been described. Graphic arts electroding techniques have been applied to obtain large characters or a number of small characters in line on a single substrate. Such displays also require the translation of digital information into the segment-display code. Both diodes and mechanical switches have been used. More attractive for miniaturization and low cost is the use of photoconductive-electroluminescent logic elements. A simple, compact panel array consisting of these elements in the form of polycrystalline layers has been constructed in approximately the area of the displayed character. A digital-to-display code translator consists of a ten parallel strip electroluminescent array which lies across a seven parallel strip array of photoconductive cells. The electroluminescent strips are connected to an input switch with positions 0 to 9 and the photoconductive cells to the seven electroluminescent character segments. The translator logic is effected by light-masking the photoconductive strips from electroluminescent strips at the appropriate cross points. This design is readily adaptable to alphabetical letters as well as to numbers. With some modifications, this device can also be used to translate binary information into the decimal code."
"This paper presents experimental and theoretical analyses of time-delay phenomena exhibited by solid-state image intensifiers of the photoconductor-electroluminescent-phosphor type. These phenomena are usually due to the photoconductor, frequently cadmium sulfide or cadmium selenide, which responds slowly to changes in the level of input radiation. The photoconductor is assumed to be ohmic and to have a conductance depending on a power of the radiation level. The electroluminescent output is assumed to depend on a power of the voltage applied across the layer. Three cases are considered: 1. Static characteristic. The output is determined after the input radiation has been incident for a long time. This condition is of interest when gain is desired but time is not a factor. 2. Instantaneous dynamic characteristic. The output is considered immediately after a short exposure. This condition is of interest for visual observation with an X-ray input. 3. Integrated dynamic characteristic. The output energy is considered as a function of the input energy of a short exposure. This condition is of interest when an X-ray input is involved and the output is recorded on photographic film."
"The use of photoconductive sintered cadium selenide as the control element in a light amplifier offers the possibility of improved gain and speed of response. Such a single element light amplifier has been made and tested. The results show that moderate gains with high output luminance are possible with speeds in the range of moving pictures. Very high gains are possible if slow response can be tolerated. Measurements were made over a range of operating frequencies and for various input levels. Data on rise time, decay time and gain for tungsten-light input are given in curve form. From these curves the operating range and input-output light levels can be determined for picture reproduction."
"A new projection storage tube designed especially for reflective optical systems has been developed by ITT Laboratories for the Federal Aviation Agency and the Bureau of Ships. This tube has a 4.5 inch diameter display having a maximum brightness of about 14,000 foot lamberts at a final anode voltage of 15 KV. The tube is capable of resolving about 600 raster lines per display diameter and gives a uniform brightness display. The faceplate of the tube is spherically-curved to match the associated optical system. A unique flooding system consisting of a ring-shaped flooding gun and spherically-curved collector and insulator backing screens provides a display with less than 10% shading from center to periphery and a maximum phosphor current of 1800µa. Utilization of the ring-shaped flooding gun permits positioning of the writing gun on the axis of the tube. This provides a tube with the same shape as a conventional CRT and eliminates the pattern distortion associated with off-axis writing guns. The design of the unique flooding system is discussed in detail and the overall performance of the tube presented."
"A new design of interdigital delay line has been developed for use with electrostatically focused backward-wave tubes. The shape of the delay line fingers has been modified by expanding their center portions into circular apertures. The delay line is divided into two electrically isolated parts so that successive fingers may be connected to different d.c. potentials, thus forming a series of electric lens elements. A hollow cylindrical electron beam which is projected along the delay line axis is electrostatically focused by the electron lens system."
"A low voltage electrostatic periodically focused BWO has been developed which operates over most of X-band and delivers a maximum output power of 20 m.w. This device employs a hollow beam and a bifilar helix circuit. This is a remarkable result as the performance of such a tube is known to be extremely critical to the quality of the focusing. It experimentally demonstrates the rigid focusing predicted theoretically for the bifilar arrangement. Theoretical and experimental investigations have been conducted to determine the feasibility of using a modified focusing scheme which employs a uniform radial electric field in addition to the periodic fields of the bifilar helix. An improved S-band model under construction is expected to give about 50 m.w. output over a 2 to 1 bandwidth with maximum beam voltage less than 1 KV. The test results from this tube will be presented."
"The use of ferrites as attenuators for traveling-wave tubes has been considered as a means of increasing gain and efficiency. Although a number of attenuators for this purpose have been reported, their actual efficiency in improving tube operation has been heretofore experimentally unverified and open to question. This paper reports the results of measurements performed on traveling wave tubes using ferrite attenuators. Of particular interest is the applicability of ferrite attenuators to electrostatically focused traveling-wave tubes. During this investigation, such a tube was developed which is entirely demountable in nature, allowing interchange of reciprocal and non-reciprocal attenuators. Results indicate a substantial improvement in tube operation using the ferrite attenuator. Also reported are the results of experiments with orthodox magnetically focused tubes incorporating ferrite attenuators."
"Previous work on periodic electrostatic focusing of the electron beam in traveling-wave tubes was confined primarily to bifilar helices. Most structures of the helical type, however, are severely limited in their power-handling capabilities. This paper discusses the application of periodic electrostatic focusing to high-power slow-wave structures to allow the development of extremely light-weight, high power amplifiers. It has been shown recently that a solid beam of high perveance can be focused by the use of a prescribed potential distribution between alternating focusing electrodes. Two slow-wave structures, a crossed-bar type and a folded-line type, were developed which incorporate the required focusing-electrode arrangement without impairing the rf properties of the basic slow-wave circuit. \"Hot-test\" results are presented for a crossed-bar structure designed for operation at X-band with a peak power output of five kilowatts. To date, a relatively short structure without attenuator, tested in a continuously pumped bell jar system, has given a peak power of six kilowatts with an efficiency of 17 percent. The tests proved the feasibility of incorporating electrostatic focusing into high power, periodic, slow-wave structures."
"This paper describes the effects of various environments on the performance of periodic-permanent-magnet focused traveling-wave tubes, the design considerations required to enable the tubes to operate under changing environments, and the means of determining satisfactory compliance with environmental specifications. Design considerations discussed include the ruggedization of various component structures, temperature compensation of periodic-permanent-magnet stacks, and the reduction of the effects of high altitude and humidity on tube operation. Equipment and test methods used to evaluate tube performance under simulated environmental conditions are described and both present and anticipated environmental capabilities of several traveling-wave tube designs are discussed."
"A 350 watt c-w, periodic permanent magnet focused X-band traveling-wave amplifier has recently been developed by the Hughes Aircraft Company. The tube provides 40 db gain over a 10% bandwidth, and therefore can be driven by commercially available backward wave oscillators. The operating voltage is 10 kv. at 0.35 amps. The major problem posed by this high average power operation is heat dissipation of the r-f circuit and of the loss. To obtain adequate circuit dissipation with periodic focusing, a coupled cavity slow wave circuit is used. The cavity walls and drift tubes are made partly of iron to serve as pole pieces for the periodic focusing structure. Copper is used foe the remainder of the walls to provide the required heat dissipation. Backward loss is provided by completely severing the circuit in three places and absorbing the r-f power in ceramic terminations. The terminations are made of ceramic loaded with the proper amount of silicon carbide to match them to the slow-wave circuit, and are capable of dissipating up to 75 watts. The lightweight periodic focusing makes the tube ideally suited for airborne application; the complete weight is only 17 lbs. The tube is rugged, being made entirely of metal and ceramic. The focusing magnets are temperature compensated for operation in ambients up to 150°C."
"An S-band high power traveling-wave tube using a loop-coupled structure has been designed and tested. This structure, called the \"'centipede,\" was first suggested by Chodorow and Craig. The coupling between adjacent cavities is provided by means of several loops in each section. The tube characteristics are similar to the well-known \"cloverleaf\" with respect to high voltage and high peak power operation. The tube will be described and the test results presented. The first model of the centipede has the following characteristics: a saturated half-power bandwidth of approximately 500 Mc centered at 2900 Mc (or about 18 percent); a peak output power of 3 megawatts; a peak efficiency of 30 percent; and a saturated gain of approximately 26 db. The operating voltages ranged from 100 to130 \\times 10^{-6}kv with a beam perveance of1.66 \\times 10^{3}. Design changes and test results of later models of the tube will also be presented."
"The techniques needed to bring the potentiality of transistors to the microwave regions are certainly becoming progressively better understood, but the ways and means of actually using them at these frequencies are not yet generally known. The purpose of this paper is to describe the fabrication of the Coaxial MADT with both package design and high-frequency transistor design in mind, and to present some of the advantages that the coaxial package presents from a standpoint of circuits. The transistor design involved scaling-down of electrode diameters to approximately 50% of the smallest previous MADT electrode diameters. The emitter electrode is 2.5 mils in diameter, and the collector electrode is 4.5 mils in diameter. This change effected a substantial decrease in both emitter and collector barrier capacitance. Using standard Philco electro-chemical etching and plating techniques and disused n-type germanium, it is possible to place the emitter electrode onto that resistivity material which will provide a compromise between low Rb1and high ftoptimizing for fmax. By this same method, it is possible to place the collector accurately on that resistivity material which will effect a compromise between low Cc, and high ft."
"A diffused base, alloyed emitter, mesa, PNP germanium transistor has been developed for application as an oscillator or amplifier at 3 kmc, or for use in feedback amplifiers requiring 500 mc bandwidth. The transistor employs a base width of 1/4 micron and a mesa size of.002\" \\times .0015\". The emitter and two base stripes are each.0003\" \\times .0015\". The transistor employs a coaxial encapsulation designed to electrically match 50Ω coaxial line. The .0003\" thick wafer is gold bonded to the inner conductor of the output line section. The emitter stripe is connected to an internal shield integral with the encapsulation shell by means of a compression bonded .0002\" gold wire. The base stripes are connected to the center conductor of the input line by a similar .0002\" gold wire. The input and output impedances of the transistor are designed to match 50Ω. Electrical results will be discussed."
"A P-N junction tunnel diode (designed PTN), in the low voltage region preceding the negative resistance, has current carried across the P-N junction primarily by electron tunneling, with very little minority carrier injection. In the higher current region following the negative resistance, minority carrier injection occurs. Despite some electron tunneling in this region and the very high impurity concentrations on both sides of the P-N boundary, injection efficiencies can be appreciable. Germanium PTNP transistors, having a tunnel junction emitter and a normal junction collector, were made by a combination of diffusion and alloying processes. They exhibit a current gain of essentially zero at low emitter currents, jumping abruptly to a finite value at the tunnel junction peak current, and remaining quite constant at higher currents. This effect was applied to control the characteristics of switches, for which PTNPN structures were used. The PTNPN triode can be made to have the switching current equal to the tunnel junction peak current, and the hold current equal to the tunnel junction valley current. A base current equal to the peak current can be used to turn the device on. These structures can be made to have quite stable properties from-70°C to + 100°C, since germanium tunnel diodes show little change in characteristics over this temperature range."
"Recently the parametric amplifier has received attention because of its low noise characteristic. One of the authors has designed a new diode which is suited for a parametric amplifier. This diode is a silver bonded diode which is composed of a silver-gallium whisker and n-type germanium. After the whisker is contacted to the germanium crystal, electrical forming is applied to make a silver bonded contact. We measured the impedance variation of the diode as a function of bias voltage at 6Kmc, by use of a coaxial standing wave meter. The barrier capacitance was calculated from this variation, and it agreed with the theoretical value in reverse bias, but in forward bias the capacitance was larger than the theoretical value. The effect is believed to be due to diffusion capacitance. The cut-off frequency of the diode was more than 400Kmc. The factor of barrier capacitance variation, C1/C0, was four times larger than that of other point contact silicon and germanium diodes. It was discovered that electrical forming was the most important factor for the characteristics of the diode. A 6Kmc parametric amplifier using a silver bonded diode was constructed. The bandwidth was 40mc at 20db gain with a noise figure of about 5db."
"A variable capacitance germanium junction diode has been developed for parametric subharmonic oscillators in ultra-high speed computers. A figure of merit, including the capacitance-voltage sensitivity, is proposed which relates the diode parameters to the performance expected in this circuit and which is helpful in the choice of diode impurity distribution."
"A voltage-variable capacitor, referred to as \"hypersensitive\" is described where, in the relation C=V-n, hypersensitivity is defined as n >0.5. The capacitors described have n=1. This type of device obtains hypersensitivity by the use of high-gradient, diffused, impurity distributions and very high Q values are possible with the method of fabrication. As is usual with such devices Q values are higest at the lowest capacitance value. These \"hypersensitive\" capacitors have a range of 10 to 1 or more in capacitance over a range of 10 to 1 in voltage. Q values of these units are greater than 50 at 50 mcps, with maximum capacitance reported from 20µµf to 1000µµf."
"A silicon nonlinear capacitance diode has been used to double a 400 Mc/sec input and has given over one watt of output with an efficiency of nearly 50 percent. The diode is characterized by a much larger breakdown voltage than that of the usual varactor amplifier diode."
"The performance of electroluminescent (EL) display panels which employ photoconductors (PC) as the control element is strongly dependent upon the design of the panel, the processing techniques and the materials used in construction. This discussion will be limited to variable persistence panels and the factors which control the shape of the brightness wave envelope. Through proper design and construction, square wave brightness output is possible. Data are presented on panels with (1) a simple layered structure, (2) a layered structure with an optical barrier between the EL and PC layers, (3) a grid type structure, and finally (4) a grid structure with a transparent ohmic conductor between the EL and PC elements."
"The useful screen diameter of electrostatically deflected cathode ray tubes is limited to relatively small values by deflection distortion. Devlopment of a high speed semi-permanent memory has created the need for a tube of moderate diameter with spot size uniformity appreciably better than that previously attained in the art. This paper describes an experimental tube with the requisite improvement in spot uniformity. It utilizes a tetrode electron gun designed for small spot size and low cathode loading. The tube is nominally operated at 10 kilovolts, a beam current of 10 microamperes, an average cathod loading of 150 ma/cm2and a current efficiency of 60%. Two focus electrodes in the lens provide astigmatism correction. The deflection system consists of curved plates optimized for high sensitivity (160 volts/inch) and low distortion."
"A high-demagnification electron gun with a small spot size was developed by deflecting the electron beam before it enters a large focusing lens. The pre-focusing deflection allows close spacing between the focusing lens and the tube screen. The diameter of the focusing lens is large compared with the beam deflection to keep spot distortion at a minimum. Either electrostatic or magnetic focusing can be used. For the electrostatic gun with an accelerating lens, only small deflection fields are required since a low voltage beam is to be deflected in the accelerating field. Magnetic deflection is used."
"The reflected-beam kinescope is a display device capable of being made very short, particularly in sizes of 21\" and larger. It retains the conventional electron gun and external deflection components and is axially symmetric. Although the effective deflection angle is nearly 180°, the deflection power required is equivalent to that used in conventional 90° kinescopes. The spherically curved tube face has a transparent conductive coating on the vacuum side that is operated at cathode potential and serves to reflect the electron beam. Mounted at a distance from the reflector is a similarly curved structure at high potential, on the convex side of which is deposited the phosphor screen. For television type displays this structure contains an array of very fine holes through which the electron beam passes in its transit from the electron gun to the screen. After reflection at the faceplate the beam falls back to the apertured structure and strikes the phosphor that lies on the surface between the holes. For a radial type scan a factor of four in brightness may be gained by replacing the perforated screen by a solid structure having a small cutout in the center to permit free passage of the beam."
"It has long been known that the triode of a CRT when operated under temperature limited conditions can project a very sharp image of the cathode surface. The portion of the cathode capable of being projected without appreciable distortion approximates one quarter of the grid hole diameter. This simple CRT triode immersion/projection lens is applied to produce a very simple and effective character writing tube which requires only a pair of electrostatic orthogonal fields for character selection and a magnetic deflecting field for character positioning. The selecting and deflecting fields are totally independent of each other and no compensating fields are required."
"The Permachon is a pickup tube having storage capabilities and multi copy readout characteristics. The target is a new solid state film having unusual electrical properties, particularly as applied to the memory of its own previous electrical and optical history. More specifically, the target under the stimulus of low velocity electron bombardment can remember and retain previously applied potentials. A direct and very significant consequence of the unusual properties of the Permachon is the ability to hold previously written information by a low velocity scanning operation, and at the same time to read this information out on a multi copy basis. It has been demonstrated that more than 104 copies may be made while scanning at the 30 frame per second rate. The image retention or hold feature can be used simultaneously with light input, thus greatly enhancing the sensitivity by integration."
"The vidicon is now used in a large variety of applications because of its small size, simplicity of circuit requirements and relatively low cost. One main disadvantage has been the size, weight and power consumption of magnetic focus and deflection components. To overcome this problem, an electrostatic focus and deflection vidicon has been developed. Design goals were established assuming first that the tube must be no larger in any dimension than standard magnetic types such as the 7325. Second, operating voltages must be suitable for completely transistorized circuitry. Third, the design must lend itself to ruggedization for missile and other severe applications. The tube is 1\" in diameter and6\\frac{1}{4}long. Maximum DC potential required is 300 volts, with deflection voltages of about 15 volts per plate. Key design feature is use of the \"Deflectron\" developed by Dr. Kurt Schlesinger. This device has, among its advantages, a common vertical and horizontal center of deflection plus an inherently rugged construction. A saddle-field lens is used for focusing."
"A new kind of multicavity anode is used to solve the moding problem in the magnetron. The anode consists of two or more sections of coupled resonators with dissimilar frequency phase shift characteristics but with a common mode point. At this common mode point the 2nπ reentrant condition is satisfied and therefore it is the only fundamental mode of oscillation that can be supported by the structure. Several versions of unimode anodes were cold tested with successful results. Uniform field patterns were obtained at the mode desired while the patterns corresponding to other modes were distorted to various degrees. The most thoroughly tested anode was one which consisted of cavities of three different sizes arranged in random order. These cavities were tuned by non-uniform straps to a common frequency at π-mode. This anode structure was incorporated into a high power magnetron. Measured under actual operating conditions, the unimode tube showed a slight increase in power output and efficiency over the unmodified tubes and the third harmonic power output was reduced by 30 db."
"For many years there has been interest in magnetron-type traveling wave tubes to achieve high power level amplification bcause of the more efficient interaction possible between electrons and r.f. waves in crossed electric and magnetic fields. This paper describes a new approach to obtaining crossed-field amplification. Work along these lines has resulted in a new device, called the Circlotron amplifier, which is a one-port, re-entrant, magnetron-type structure obtaining its high gain by means of internal regenerative feedback, its wide bandwidth by means of heavy load damping, and its separation between output and input signals through use of a ferrite circulator. Tubes have been designed and built with various degrees of loading. The heavily loaded tubes behave as regenerative amplifiers while the higher Q tubes behave as forced oscillators. Experimental results will be presented showing agreement between theory and experiment. At the present time gains greater than 20 db have been obtained at X-band frequency over a 5% bandwidth at 1 to 10 kw peak power output levels. Lower gains have been obtained over a 13% bandwidth. Operation has been at high efficiency (30% to 60%)."
"Spurious low frequency oscillations similar to those reported by Cutler have been observed in the form of large amplitude modulation of both the RF output and the collector current of klystrons utilizing high perveance electron beams. This modulation, which appears typically as saw-tooth-like relaxation oscillations with frequencies ranging from 10 cps to 10 kcps, was observed to occur spontaneously only if the operating pressure was lower than a critical threshold (\\sim 1 \\times 10^{-7}mm Hg). Experiments are described which were designed to investigate this phenomenon using dc beam testers. Evidence is presented which indicates that the oscillations are due to a relaxation back and forth between two possible solutions to Poissons equation which both satisfy all boundary conditions. One of the possible solutions corresponds to the existence of a virtual cathode within the beam, resulting in a partial reflection of electrons. Experimental evidence indicates that positive ions play an important role in triggering the relaxation."
"In this paper are described two models of 4-cavity klystrons respectively designed for 5 and 20 megawatts peak power. Perveances of 2.7 and2 \\times 10^{-6}and beam impedance of 1000 ohms result in low voltage operation and various corresponding advantages: low cost of modulators, easier insulation and X-ray protection, non-critical tuning of low loaded Q cavities. The same technology is used for both models: massive construction of (water-cooled) walls and cavities, fastening with removable, bakable joints of gun, collector, input and output circuit, and titanium pump, proper design of gun assembly, shielding of output window, output at the top, removable focusing coils. Such features have given practical solutions to many problems: fixed tuned cavities and negligible thermal power drift, no gun oscillation, operation under vacuum on both sides of the window as required for accelerators, control of components, reproductibility of performance, long life, recovering at low cost. The incorporated titanium pump allows the tubes to be operated sealed off under automatic vacuum control."
"A pulsed high power L-band klystron has been designed around a perveance10 \\times 10^{-6}hollow beam, operating at 50 kv with a current of 112 amps. Beam convergence is achieved by means of an electron gun having magnetron geometry. This gun has been found to produce a well formed beam with satisfactory r-f properties. The experimental klystron consists of a five cavity driver and a multiple-tuned output circuit. The high beam perveance results in heavy electronic loading of the resonant cavities so that, with stagger tuning, bandwidths of the order of 15% can be attained with output power at megawatt levels."
"A new approach incorporating the use of low Q ceramic loaded center cavities has been used to obtain bandwidths of the order of 10% in L-band. The loaded cavities are tuned to resonant frequencies which, when compensated by the response of a low Q input cavity, give an optimally bunched beam over a frequency bandwidth of more than 100 Mc. The design employed here differs from the conventional stagger-tuned klystron design in that the low Q's of the center cavities enable them to be tuned out of the frequency band of interest with the result that the phase shift characteristics of the tube is flatter than when the cavities are stagger-tuned within the band."
"Some fundamental factors affecting the design of integrated electronic devices are discussed, particularly the influence of shrinkage. It is concluded that the considerable advantages of integrated devices compared to conventional devices, such as very small volume and weight, and reduced number of metallic connections, has to be paid for by higher shrinkage in fabrication. The resulting increase in cost may be made very small if the design of the integrated device allows the extent of integration to be adjusted to the shrinkage rate. Two considerations are advanced to reduce partially this higher shrinkage. One is that the resultant high cost of the integrated device justifies a higher investment in the fabrication process of the integrated device than for the individual units. The other is that methods of doctoring integrated devices may be effectively used to reduce the shrinkage."
"The basic objectives of all space guidance equipments are maximum reliability and maintainability under severe environmental conditions together with minimum weight, size, and power consumption. From a number of possible approaches to the miniaturization problem, the solid-state circuit concept has been selected as the one offering the greatest potential of high reliability combined with extreme circuit compactness. To demonstrate the feasibility of this approach, the circuit of a full-adder now used in airborne digital computers for guidance was selected. The circuit consists of 17 individual circuits, seven amplifiers, eight \"And\" circuits, and a flip-flop."
"Photolithographic techniques have been applied to fabrication of an NOR solid circuit containing four resistors and a transistor. The two dimensional circuit is layed out on diffused base germanium in a .1 inch square. Photographic slides of individual components are combined on a single slide by a photomicrographic camera with .25 mil indexing accuracy in X - Y directions. Several such composite slides successively expose the germanium wafer coated with photo resist. The first slide exposes for the A1 alloy-emitter bar of the transistor. A second has the pattern for the gold alloy ohmic contacts on resistors and base of transistor. A third contains the etch-moat pattern for isolating resistors and transistor. The last slide images the nickel masking plate for evaporated A1 leads interconnecting components (after a previous pattern exposes resist for an insulating layer under the leads). In summary, solid state diffusion and photolithographic techniques are combined to yield the electronic properties and topological control necessary for active and passive elements in solid state circuits on semiconductor wafers."
"The design of diffused silicon high-speed power transistors is complicated by the absence of a suitable design theory. Calculations using alloy transistor theory predict results at variance with measurements made on double diffused silicon units. This is particularly true of effects dependent on emitter width and lateral base current flow. Existing design theory indicates the superiority of narrow emitters whereas experiment reveals that wider emitters often produce a better compromise between speed and efficiency for high current devices."
"An analysis of the switching speed of double diffused silicon transistors in saturating circuits indicated that they were switching much slower than was calculated on first order design theory. An investigation of this behavior led to the conclusion that the effective base width was much wider when the transistor was in saturation than when it was under normal operating conditions. This effect, of course, gives rise to a very long hole storage time. This can be explained by noting that when the transistor is in saturation the hole density at the collector junction greatly exceeds the acceptor concentration in the collector body. Under these conditions the collector junction is forced to move back into the collector until a point is reached where the accepter concentration is higher than the hole density. At this point an effective P-N junction can be formed. When this situation is analyzed mathematically it explains properly the slow switching speed of this transistor type."
"Extensive measurements of noise figure have been made on diffused silicon and diffused germanium transistors intended for use as high-frequency amplifiers. The measurements serve the twofold purpose of providing an adequate characterization of the devices for circuit designers and of permitting a comparison to be made with existing theory. Although data have been obtained at suitably spaced frequencies extending from 1 kc to 150 mc, emphasis will be placed on shot noise rather than on the excess noise component which is significant only at frequencies below 1 mc. The dependence of the noise figure on source resistance, current and frequency will be discussed from the point of view of obtaining optimum circuit performance."
"Investigations by the Bell Telephone Laboratories into the reliability characterization of PNP germanium alloy transistors produced by the Western Electric Company have resulted in dramatic improvement in the stability of their electrical properties. These studies have extended over about five million device hours of life testing, including about 600 transistors, some tests extending over two years. Early investigations were aimed at characterizing the stability of the emitter and collector junctions as well as the direct current gain of the transistor when subjected to various conditions of temperature, current, voltage and power. From these studies evolved a simple method for the early detection of instability which would eventually lead to failure. A need for improving the stability of this transistor was also established."
"This paper describes the design and performance of a 220 mc negative-resistance parametric amplifier which enables the design of a low-noise, all solid-state UHF receiver. The parametric amplifiers previously described in the literature required considerable pump power, which generally precluded the use of transistorized pump sources. This amplifier, which uses less than 0.1 milliwatt of pump power thereby permitting a crystal-controlled transistorized pump, has a noise figure between 1 and 2 db and a reasonably stable gain of 13 db without using a circulator or isolator."
"An operating S-band traveling-wave parametric amplifier is described. The amplifier signal-idler circuit consists of four rectangular cavities centrally loaded by variable capacitance diodes. The cavities are inductively coupled through irises which may be exchanged to vary the size and characteristics of the passband. The pump, at C-band, is supported by a second circuit capacitively coupled to each of the signal cavities. Stable gains of greater than 20 db have been obtained by incorporating non-reciprocal loss ferrite elements in the irises between cavities. Gains of 10 db have been achieved over 10% bandwidth and more gain over wider passbands can be obtained by simply adding more cavity sections. The critical effect of pump phase shift on stability, shape of response curves and bandwidth is illustrated. Results of noise measurements will be given and compared with theory."
"The practical applicability of Masers is often hindered by saturation effects of the maser material. Any strong signal of the same frequency as the maser signal frequency will cause saturation, thus paralyzing the maser for a period of time which is often too long for the intended application. These difficulties have been overcome by desaturating a four-level ruby maser immediately after the maser has been saturated. The experiment was carried out at a signal frequency of 2.5 KMc using an X-band pump. Full recovery of the amplification capabilities of the maser was achieved."
"This paper deals with the development of a vacuum tube to serve as a general multiplier device. In the tube a suitable unipotential gun shoots an electron beam through the region of two orthogonal sets of deflection plates upon a collection electrode in the form of four insulated quadrants. The input signals are applied to the deflection plates and shift the beam area over the collection electrode. A current output is obtained which is proportional to the instantaneous product of the two input signals. The device can accept positive and negative values of input signals. The electron gun was designed to produce a well focused electron beam, having uniform current density and relatively large area at the collection electrode. Limitations imposed on such requirements were analyzed in detail together with the current density distribution over the collection electrode in the two cases of circular and rectangular beams. In the collection electrode a suppressor plate was used behind the four quadrants and a description of its function is given. The high-frequency limitations to the performance of the tube was found to result mainly from the stray capacitances associated with the collection electrode. The influence of the operating conditions on the performance of the tube is given."
"One of the main reasons why tubes employing planar periodic electrostatic focusing of electron sheet beams have not been used more widely is that extremely precise alignment of tube parts is required in order to achieve good beam transmission. A simple technique for achieving this precise alignment has been developed. This technique, in brief, consists of the assembly of the tube electrodes in two separate halves, the surfaces of which are then ground simultaneously with an abrasive wheel. Finally, the two halves are bolted together at each end. This technique has been employed successfully in the construction of a tube containing a 2.1 in. long electrostatic focusing structure consisting of 19 pairs of plates having a separation of 0.025 in. In this tube, 99.8% of the 0.005 in. thick, 28 µ amp. electron beam was transmitted through the structure with no increase of beam width. This technique can be applied to the construction of any device employing planar periodic electrostatic focusing of a sheet beam. Two possible applications are a transverse-field traveling-wave tube and a parametric amplifier. This technique may also be used for constructing well-aligned electron guns for generating well-collimated sheet beams to be used for other applications, such as slalom focusing and E-type devices."
"A grid-controlled secondary-emission electron multiplier tube has been designed and built which can deliver an output pulse of five amperes into a load impedance of 100 ohms, with a rise time of less than 10 millimicroseconds and a transit time of less than 20 millimicroseconds. The measured transconductance of the tube is 600,000 µmho, and it can provide a positive output pulse with a positive grid input. This tube is constructed as a series of concentric cylinders, with the grid and cathode structure of a 6AG7 pentode serving as a controlled emitter source. Outside the last grid, a series of four louvered, concentric dynodes are placed, with the first dynode serving as the missing pentode plate. Outside the last dynode are a screen-mesh collector and a fifth dynode. From the fifth dynode, a solid cylinder, the output pulse is taken. The concentric geometry has several advantages. Space-charge difficulties are decreased because the current gain at each dynode may be kept at a high level without increasing the current density in proportion. Furthermore, the geometry is suited to a coaxial input and output for obtaining optimum rise-time characteristics. A tube has been life-tested for 500 hours with a 4 ampere output pulse."
"The development of low heater power cathode assembly for cathode ray tubes will be described. This cathode is designed to operate from a 1.5 volt supply with a power consumption of less than\\frac{1}{4}watt. Construction features of the assembly will be explained in detail and a brief outline made of the operational steps of assembly. Emission and power characteristic curves will be shown and discussed. A specialized cathode ray tube, type SC-2751, was developed to incorporate the advantages of this cathode assembly. The novel engineering features incorporated in this tube design will be described and performance data shown."
"Contains various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Provides a schedule of conference events and a listing of which papers were presented in each session."
"Contains an entry for each conference attendee."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Biographies of Dr. Herman Epstein, Mr. Oscar B. Stram, and Dr. John E. May, Jr."
"The authors investiagte ultrasonic leaning, with emphasis on its application to cleaning small parts. The ultrasonic equipment used at present for cleaning medical apparatus has not been effective in removing the coagulated blood from the inside of hypodermic needles. A design is described which has successfully removed the dried blood from hypodermic needles in a relatively short period of time. Preliminary experiments indicate that this system may also be sterilizing the needles at the same time as it is cleaning them."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Describes the standardisation of measurement methods and procedures to enable the determination of a direction finder's (DF) characteristics which will permit analysis of DF performance in a uniform manner. Standard test conditions are given and test equipment is discussed. Direction finder sensitivity and system accuracy measurements are discussed, and time requirements and interference are considered."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Listings are by month and page, and include authors of papers, authors of Correspondence items (C), and reviewers of books (B)."
"Listings are by month and page. Authors and paper titles may be determined from the tables of contents in the front part of this index."
"This index covers all nontechnical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"The index contains an entry for all items that appeared during the year."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A photoelectronic circuit consists of a combination of electroluminescent cells and photoconductors, interconnected by electrical as well as optical paths. A study is made of the properties of electroluminescent cells and photoconductors, and of the applications of these elements to the design of switching circuits. The asymmetrical bistable stage is taken up in detail, and analyzed with a view to determining its advantages and disadvantages. It is shown that this stage suffers from the inherent disadvantage that any improvement in the speed of turn-on results in a deterioration of the recovery characteristic. Furthermore, the switching requirements for turn-on and turn-off are dissimilar. A symmetrical version of this circuit is also presented; this circuit eliminates many of the disadvantages of the asymmetrical version, and also considerably speeds up the recovery characteristic without increasing the turn-on time. Circuits are developed for performing the logical operations of transmission, negation, conjunction and disjunction, and their principles of operation are described. In conclusion, techniques are developed for the synthesis of over-all computing operations, such as those of a half-adder, even parity checker, and a shift register."
"With a new type of light-amplifier panel, incorporating optical feedback, a transient input image can be stored for an indefinite time as a black-and-white or on-off picture. Using 420-cycle operation, an exposure of about 1 foot-candle-second is required for triggering an image on, with the excited elements having a brightness of 0.5 foot-lamberts. When desired, the stored image can be rapidly erased by electrical means without the delay normally required by the decay of the photoconductor. A panel construction of 40 elements per linear inch is used, with each element optically and electrically isolated from its neighbors. By means of separate phosphor layers for viewing and feedback, ambient light on the viewing side is prevented from exciting the panel. Calculated and measured curves are shown, indicating the effects of varying the feedback factor in general light amplifier operation. A relation is also derived, taking into account the build-up and decay properties of the amplifier, which specifies the conditions for bistable operation."
"This paper describes the development of three practical, sealed-off, tunable klystrons intended for operation in the region of 1 to 2 megw at the S, L, and X radar frequency bands. These tubes are an outgrowth of the previous development at Stanford of a 30-megw S-band klystron in conjunction with the billion-volt linear electron accelerator program. Similar design principles apply to all of these tubes, but the three smaller klystrons described make use of cavity tuning methods appropriate to the three frequency bands."
"It is shown that the complete Tchebycheff insertion-loss function giving equal valley heights in the stop band and equal ripple heights in the pass band can be realized with two Zobel m-derived sections by suitable choice of the m values and the terminating resistance. The limitation in comparison with more general synthesis techniques is that for each width of the cutoff region only one Tchebycheff-Zobel filter is possible, having a fixed value of passband ripple. The ripple levels obtained, however, are in the range of interest and the filters are of practical value. Data are given in chart and tabular form so that the design procedure is very simple. The results show that prototype sections do not appear in the optimum designs, and that terminating half sections need not be used to obtain flat pass-band transmission."
"A generalized criterion is given for the design of minimum loss Butterworth and Tchebycheff filters of arbitrary bandwidth and component quality. This criterion is chosen to minimize the insertion loss in the center of the band and is particularly useful for microwave filters, where insertion loss must be minimized. Two general curves are given for this design, together with information as to the method followed in obtaining them. It is shown that, if insertion losses are to be minimized, the use of Tchebycheff filters with ripples greater than very small fractions of one decibel must be discouraged."
"A low-noise, microwave amplifier has been constructed using two non-linear capacitor microwave p-n junction diodes in a balanced hybrid system. Power gains in excess of 30 db with effective input noise temperatures less than 290°K have been observed at a frequency of 2900 mc."
"The two-terminal constant-current device described herein employs the principles of the field effect transistor. Current flows parallel to a junction through a thin sheet of semiconductor. The reverse bias on the junction controls the effective thickness of the sheet and thereby controls its conductance. An extension of Shockley's step-junction-device theory is presented, as well as a formulation for the graded-junction case. Several structures are discussed and compared, and fabrication procedure for the presently used structure is outlined. The current limiter has been employed advantageously as an ac switch, a current regulator, for discrimination between ac and dc, and in simple circuits for sawtooth and step function generation and for digital-to-analog conversion."
"By introducing geometric variation in the basic magnetic core toroidal structure, new logic design freedom is achieved and effective decoupling is obtained between different windings linking the same element. By proper interconnection such elements may be used to provide unilateral information-flow properties without the use of explicit unilateral devices such as diodes. A practical system to accomplish this is outlined in this paper. The resulting circuits are relatively fast and inexpensive. Magnetic elements and connecting wires only are required. In particular, single-turn windings may be used in the coupling loops. Furthermore, inherent nondestructive read properties allow a great deal of logic facility. Simple shift register structures and logic elements and circuits are described."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The MgO cold cathode is a new source of electrons with possible applications in various types of electron tubes. It consists of a thin layer of porous magnesium oxide on a nickel base. A strong electric field that exists across the layer while in operation is believed to produce the electron emission from the surface. Evidence supports the theory that avalanche multiplication occurs in the layer. This cathode glows with a pale blue luminescence during operation. The velocity distribution of the emitted electrons shows a peak at 13 electron volts. The outer surface potential has been measured and found to be of the order of 150 volts with respect to the nickel base. The emission is not self-starting, and starting means are discussed. Noise, life, emission density, and temperature range of operation are discussed in so far as present knowledge permits. An experimental design of an amplifier tube employing this cathode is described and the characteristics of the tube are given."
"Unusually low noise, combined with high stable gain over fairly wide bands, has been obtained with electron beam amplifiers of a new kind. This paper explains how this performance is achieved by the action of a transverse quadrupole field upon a fast cyclotron wave. The first two sections give a qualitative description of the device and of the amplifying mechanism. A physical picture of the fast cyclotron wave is used to explain the interchange of signal and noise in the input coupler and the mechanism of parametric amplification in the quadrupole region. The third section presents a detailed analysis of the amplification process. It shows that the fast cyclotron wave is amplified in accordance with a cosh function of distance traveled through the quadrupole, and that a new cyclotron wave at idler frequency (difference between pump and signal frequencies) is generated which grows as a sinh function of distance. The fourth section describes experimental tubes built to date. These operate on frequency bands between 400 and 800 mc. Typical bandwidth is 40 to 50 mc independent of gain, which may be adjusted to 20 or 30 db. Residual noise temperature of the electron beam in good specimens within this experimental lot is 70°K; input coupler loss raises this figure to about 100°K. This is equivalent to a noise figure of 1.4 db if the device is used, for instance, in radio astronomy."
"The performances of a nonlinear resistance and a nonlinear capacitance in a broadband harmonic generator circuit are analyzed. The nonlinear capacitance is shown to have a considerably higher efficiency. Some results of harmonic and subharmonic generation experiments with a graded-junction silicon nonlinear capacitance diode are given."
"Cesium atomic beam frequency standards of different design have been compared, and the principal sources of errors in these devices have been studied. The unresolved discrepancy found between the standards was about 2 parts in 1010. The characteristics of the standard, sources of errors, and the details of the comparison tests are discussed in this paper."
"Two types of pattern-processing problems are discussed in this paper. The first, termed \"pattern detection,\" consists of examining an arbitrary set of figures and selecting those having some specified form. The second problem, \"pattern recognition,\" consists of identifying a given figure which is known to belong to one of a finite set of classes. This is the problem encountered when reading alphanumeric characters. Both recognition and detection have been successfully carried out on an IBM 704 computer which was programmed to simulate a spatial computer (a stored-program machine comprised of a master control unit directing a network of logical modules). One of the programs tested consisted of a recognition process for reading hand-lettered sans-serif alphanumeric characters. This process permits large variations in the size, shape, and proportions of the input figures and can tolerate random noise when it is well scattered in small specks. Programs for detecting L-shaped (or A-shaped) figures in the presence of other randomly drawn patterns have also been successfully tested."
"This paper presents a unified method for computing detection range of pulse, multi-channel pulse Doppler, and CW radars. The method assumes that detection occurs when a set threshold is exceeded and is based on 1) a modification of the conventional radar equation which relates range with the signal-to-noise ratio; 2) a simplified analysis of a single channel consisting of range gate, bandpass filter, square-law detector, and post-detection integrator which leads to an approximate calculation of the probability of detection; 3) a consideration of multi-channel effects. Although pulse radar has been extensively analyzed, the literature on the performance of CW and pulse Doppler radars is meager. This paper attempts to fill this gap. The method should prove useful for evaluating changes in a radar or comparing two radars. In order to estimate the radar range of a single radar, experiments to \"calibrate\" the model are required. A radar whose range is experimentally known can serve as a standard of comparison for predicting the behavior of radars under development. Examples illustrate the method and suitable graphs are given."
"Utilizing the cutoff properties of certain lossy periodic waveguide structures, low reflection absorptive filters for harmonic power at microwave frequencies have been obtained. Various approaches to specific absorptive filters are discussed, and the experimental results presented demonstrate the validity of the concepts developed. Insertion loss of up to 50 db for second harmonic power (TE10 or TE20 mode) and less than 0.1 db for the fundamental at S-band could be accomplished using a waveguide filter of eight inches length. The VSWR is of the order of 1.5 or better throughout the entire useful frequency range. The wide band performance of the filters is characterized by the fact that satisfactory operation results if the frequency of the fundamental falls within the range of dominant TE10 mode propagation in rectangular guide, excluding the extreme edges of the band."
"The paper describes a simple and accurate method for computing ionospheric and tropospheric bending. The only assumptions made are that the refractive gradient is radial and that the refractive index profile can be approximated by a finite number of linear segments whose thickness is small compared with the earth's radius. These assumptions are readily justifiable in all practical cases. Since there are no limitations on the angle of elevation and the shape of the refractive index profile, the method has a wide application and it is extended to cover other refractive effects such as retardation, Doppler error and Faraday Rotation."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"An analog computer has been constructed to simulate, as nearly as possible, the flux of material in systems of coupled chemical reactions. Concentrations of various reactants, intermediates, and products are represented by the potentials at the outputs of electronic integrators. Rates of turnover of materials are represented by charges flowing to and from the integrators. The charges are caused to circulate by means of a \"pump\" mechanism that transfers charge at a rate proportional to the triple product of three voltages, two of which are derived from integrators and represent the concentrations of reactants. The third represents a rate constant. One voltage controls the frequency of an oscillator, the second, the duration of a triangular waveform, which is triggered by the oscillator, and the third, its rate of rise. By suitable interconnection of a number of integrators and pumps, a wide variety of reaction schemes can be simulated."
"The direct approach to a study of the dynamics of the essential intermediates in life processes is afforded by sensitive optical techniques that accurately measure and record the absorbancy of the iron proteins (cytochromes) in living cells, tissues, and particles derived therefrom. This paper outlines the nature of physical phenomena measurable in the biological systems and emphasizes current thinking on the nature of electron transfer between the proteins which involves oxidation and reduction of their iron-containing active centers with the simultaneous conservation of energy required for driving essential biological processes. The methods for these measurements are reviewed and spectrophotometric techniques at room and liquid nitrogen temperatures, and new developments such as microspectrophotometry of the cytochromes in portions of the living cell are emphasized. Data evaluation and representation of electron transfer processes and metabolic control sequences by analog and digital computers are described and particular reference is made to the operation of metabolic controls in ascites tumor cells."
"The electrical properties of live matter are analyzed. The article first summarizes general principles which pertain to the frequency dependence of the electrical properties of any type of matter. It then states the particular mechanism which, at various parts of the total frequency spectrum, are predominantly responsible for observed data. They include time-dependent interface polarization, accumulation of charges due to inhomogeneous structure and orientation of polar molecules. The electrical properties of water and electrolytes, of protein suspensions, of subcellular and cellular structures are outlined in terms of previously mentioned mechanism. This, in turn, permits synthesis of the experimentally observed dielectric parameters of tissues. The treatment encompasses the total range of frequencies, from 1 cps to 100,000 mc. The article concludes with a chapter which outlines the application of the data and pertinent impedance techniques to a variety of basic and applied problems in biology and medicine."
"Metal-filled microelectrodes are best for high-frequency work; fluid-filled ones are best for low frequencies and dc. Both have advantages and drawbacks. This paper gives the results of experience with both sorts of probe. Practical hints and recipes are included because these seldom appear in detail."
"A distributed parameter equivalent network of a nerve cell is developed. The network is based upon the electrical constants of nervous tissue. Inserted in the network are electrically and chemically activated generators. Some experimental evidence is given for the properties of the network and the generators, as well as for the location of the generators in the network. The function of the neurons in the nervous system is discussed in terms of this network."
"Special purpose real-time analog computers are used to measure and control nerve membrane potential or current in a squid axon or a single frog node. Under current control, the membrane potential has a region of discontinuity and an \"action potential\" rather similar to that observed in normal impulse propagation. With potential control, the current pattern is a continuous function of the potential, and a negative resistance is found in the region of potential discontinuity for the current-controlled membrane. The membrane's electrical characteristics may therefore be compared with some two-terminal transistor switching circuits."
"Accurate measurement and analysis of the mechanical events in active muscle requires the use of high-speed equipment. A hydraulic servo-valve, controlled by analog units (integrators, adders, inverters), can be used to control the speed of shortening of muscle at rates as high as 1 mm per millisecond. The apparatus can be used for isometric, isotonic, and controlled release experiments. Both release and stretch, at high or low speeds, can be produced during a single contraction cycle. Force is measured by an unbonded strain gauge of high natural frequency and low compliance. To maintain constant force on the muscle, a signal proportional to measured force is fed into an error detector, whose output controls the servovalve piston. The instrumentation described can provide the necessary and sufficient information to specify completely both transient and steady-state mechanical properties of muscle."
"Scanning microscopy provides the means for extending the range of usefulness of the light microscope in several directions. In addition to the convenience of viewing a large bright image on the television type monitor, it can also enhance the contrast of faintly visible specimens and can extend the convenience of direct observation into the infrared and ultraviolet. By electrical processing of the video signal, a great deal of quantitative information can be extracted. This method has been used to determine the number, size, and size distribution of particles in a field and to quantitate absorption of biological materials for visible and ultraviolet light."
"Mass-screening application of the cytological smear for the detection of cervical cancer has been limited by a lack of technicians to screen the smears. By using an instrument to identify automatically those smears which are clearly negative, the effectiveness of the technician could be greatly increased. A quantitative analysis of a large number of smears showed that positive smears usually had a small number of cells with abnormally large and intensely stained nuclei that did not appear on negative smears. On the basis of this analysis, an experimental instrument-called the Cytoanalyzer-has been constructed. The Cytoanalyzer scans a smear, measures the size and light absorption of approximately 10,000 cells on the smear, classifies each cell normal or abnormal according to its nucleus size and absorption, and totals the number of cells falling into each classification. The smear is then classified normal or abnormal depending on the fraction of cells having abnormal characteristics. Preliminary tests with the Cytoanalyzer have been very promising. In a test of approximately 1000 smears, 65 per cent of the premenopause smears and 35 per cent of the postmenopause smears were properly identified. Plans are now underway to make a more thorough test of the screening capabilities of the instrument. If the test is successful, development of a clinical instrument will be started."
"The cardiac output flow pulse (less coronary flow) can be recorded with a magnetic flowmeter applied to the unopened ascending aorta, provided: 1) the extremely large EKG potentials in this region are rejected, 2) the flowmeter is phase-sensitive, and 3) the over-all instrument response is uniform from zero to 100 cps. These requirements are fulfilled by the instrument described through the use of the square-wave method recently introduced by A. B. Denison, and by using a high switching frequency (480 cps), an input high-pass filter, and a double-balanced demodulator. Two output channels of suitable response provide for simultaneous recording of instantaneous and mean flow. Each pickup sleeve is calibrated in vitro in terms of microvolts per flow rate. An electrical series calibrator provides the operational calibration. Past methods are reviewed and circuit details and design considerations are discussed."
"Two approaches are presented to the study of regulation in the circulatory system. One consists of programming on an analog computer equations to represent part of the system and then, using suitable transducer, substituting the computer for the biological component. An example is presented in which a part of the mechanism which regulates arterial pressure (the carotid sinus) is simulated. The other approach involves simultaneous solution of equations derived to represent each system component. Simulation of a transient disturbance in blood distribution (Valsalva maneuver) is presented to illustrate the use of this approach in predicting the role of each component in determining over-all system behavior."
"Classical investigation into the function and control of the heart has been conducted on anesthetized open-chested dogs. Unfortunately, both the anesthetics and the exposure of the heart affect cardiac function. Hence, more realistic information would be obtained if the heart could be studied in intact conscious animals. A system has been developed to make possible continuous analysis of the action of the heart in the healthy unanesthetized dog during its spontaneous activities. This system involves the continuous measurement of the pressure within the chambers of the heart, the size of these chambers, and the flow of blood out of the heart. Heart rate, stroke volume, average blood flow, effective cardiac power and work, and other information are continuously derived from the directly-measured parameters by means of analog computers. Several new instruments were developed to solve the problems unique to measurement in an intact animal. The dimensions of the heart chamber are obtained by measuring the transit time of pulsed sound passing across the chamber. Blood flow is measured by comparing the upstream and downstream transit times of bursts of sound passing through the moving blood. An isothermal flow meter utilizing a tiny thermistor on the tip of a catheter provides an alternate measure of flow. A miniature, differential transformer type of pressure transducer was developed for measuring pressure within a heart chamber. The system provides a means by which hypotheses regarding cardiovascular function and control may be rapidly and accurately evaluated."
"The pupil reflex to light has been considered as a servomechanism, a self-regulated error-actuated control device. This cybernetic approach, requiring the experimenter to make quantitative measurements in animals with a fully intact central nervous system, was made possible using a pupillometer designed for awake, cooperative human subjects. This instrument provided an electronically controlled light stimulus as well as continuous records of both pupil area and light intensity. Sinusoidal changes in light intensity, small enough for linearization assumptions, were injected in an open loop fashion to determine the transfer function for pupil system behavior. The pupil servo is quite stable and has a low gain with an attenuation slope of 18 db per octave beyond 1.5 cps. One line of investigation using pharmacological agents has suggested the triple lag to be contributed by the physical law representing the viscosity of the iris neuromuscular system. Another experiment used artificially increased gain to produce instability oscillations whose frequency was predictable from the low gain transfer function. Still another investigation has shown the pupil system to contain much noise. This noise is not a result of instability, nor generated by the smooth muscle of the iris, nor by other elements of the pupil servoloop, but is injected into the loop from another part of the brain. Further studies in progress are defining nonlinearities in the pupil and retinal system in order to set up an accurate analog model of the pupil system in the form of a program for a digital computer."
"In this paper, we analyze the activity of single fibers in the optic nerve of a frog. Our method is to find what sort of stimulus causes the largest activity in one nerve fiber and then what is the exciting aspect of that stimulus such that variations in everything else cause little change in the response. It has been known for the past 20 years that each fiber is connected not to a few rods and cones in the retina but to very many over a fair area. Our results show that for the most part within that area, it is not the light intensity itself but rather the pattern of local variation of intensity that is the exciting factor. There are four types of fibers, each type concerned with a different sort of pattern. Each type is uniformly distributed over the whole retina of the frog. Thus, there are four distinct parallel distributed channels whereby the frog's eye informs his brain about the visual image in terms of local pattern independent of average illumination. We describe the patterns and show the functional and anatomical separation of the channels. This work has been done on the frog, and our interpretation applies only to the frog."
"Many experimental procedures yield curves which are sums of distribution functions. Examples of such curves include electrophoretic, diffusion, and ultracentrifugal patterns, absorption spectra, and curves from countercurrent distribution and from partition chromatography in either liquid or vapor phase. In a given type of curve, each of the component functions is identical to the others in form (for example Gaussian) but can have very different values of the parameters governing height, width, and position along the abscissa. We wish to determine the parameters for each component by an analysis of the sum curve. The computer to be described performs this analysis by synthesizing a number of distribution functions of the desired form, each with adjustable parameters, and presenting, on an oscilloscope, the sum of these functions for comparison with the experimental curve being analyzed. A match is made visually by adjustment of the various parameters. When a match has been obtained, the parameters of the component functions are read out, following a switching procedure which presents the individual functions in sequence."
"General principles which determine the frequency dependence of both absorption and velocity of ultrasound in matter are outlined and applied to cell suspensions and tissues. The mechanisms which are responsible in the biological case for the experimentally observed frequency dependence of ultrasonic properties are described. They relate predominantly to macromolecular components. Finally, the relationships which pertain to the propagation of ultrasound in heterogeneous tissue complexes are discussed, and consequences for the medical application as a therapeutic tool are considered."
"Current research on the use of low-power ultrasound as a diagnostic tool is reviewed. Ultrasonic waves can be used to investigate soft tissue structures which are opaque to light or invisible to X rays. Continuous-wave techniques can picture absorbing or reflecting areas in tissue specimens. Doppler frequencies related to the motion of the heart have also been investigated. Pulse reflection techniques can detect the small echoes reflected from interfaces between and within tissue structures. Radar scanning tecnhiques are used to form reflection pictures of accessible tissues. The significance of such pictures of the breast, bowel, eye, extremities, kidney, liver, and neck areas in the living human is being studied. The position and velocity of the walls of the heart during the cardiac cycle also can be recorded."
"The achievement of reliable and reproducible measurements in the broad field of the life sciences demands the highest level of competency among the experts who know how to measure. The new technology called \"sonics\" encompasses heretofore problematic industrial measurements with ultrasound. The application of sonics for measurement in the biologic sciences gives promise. Methods for measuring the velocity of blood, the viscosity of blood and certain dimensions of living bodily tissues are described in this report."
"With the use of computers several mathematical techniques can be applied to aid certain aspects of medical diagnosis. However, much work remains to be accomplished in trying these methods under practical conditions. Although wide interest has been expressed, few studies have been reported in the literature. Among the potential advantages of computer aids are: making available to the physician quantitative methods in areas related to data analysis and differential diagnosis; assisting in the evaluation of the best alternative courses of action during stages of the diagnostic testing processes; and periodic recording and evaluating of individual physiologic norms for more sensitive determination of an individual's health trend relative to disease prevention. Communication between the physician or researcher and the computer is presently technically feasible but much research and planning are still required for realistic application."
"The advent of modern aircraft has forced the recognition of three fundamental principles required to optimize human flight control: The first, kinalog attitude display, is an adaptive kinesthetic analog tracing the human orientation as g force is sensed, intended to inhibit the onset of vertigo through the maintenance of continued agreement between the instruments and the human operator's internal \"up\" vector. The second, anticipatory display, describes information relative to some aspect of a future status of the vehicle, thus overcoming both the pilot's and the vehicle's response time lag. The speed of modern aircraft already leaves too little time for decision making. Anticipatory display may overcome this problem and significantly improve performance. The third, modified pictorial display, presents an integrated pictorial view from which has been removed much of the irrelevant data which would be seen in the real world. These concepts are embodied in proposed aircraft instrument designs which fall within the present state of the art. They are also extended to possible future spacecraft applications. Compatible quantitative instrumentation is also described to complete the cockpit panel. Cursory evaluation has been accomplished by ground simulation and some relevant data is presented. These initial experiments appear to offer a significant promise to increase the performance capability of future manned vehicles."
"The IRE Professional Group on Medical Electronics was organized in 1952. It was formed to provide a means of bringing together the relatively few electronic engineers who were interested in applying their knowledge to the problems of measurement and treatment in modern medical research and practice. The Group has grown from a few scattered individuals to an organization of some 2000, with local chapters in several of the large medical centers. As is the case with other IRE Professional Groups, it has its own publication and holds meetings for presentation of scientific papers. It also cooperates with other professional societies and organizations in the presentation of meetings and in the advancement of the professional status of its members."
"This paper is, in effect, an essay looking toward the improvement of instruments used in biomedical research, their availability, and the knowledge and skills necessary to use them to the best advantage. The discussion suggests that it might be desirable to establish a center or centers where teaching, research, and engineering can be done on instruments; where scientists or technicians can learn to use them; and where instruments can be rented as needed, with or without technical assistance. One will not find in this article the names of biomedical instruments or quantitative information about their current use. Recommendations are made on the following subjects: information cleanng house, instrument and technician pool, instruction, professional status, student recruitment, and hierarchy of facilities."
"The reprinting in this issue of the PROCEEDINGS of the NAS-NRC study of \"Instrumentation in Biomedicine\" gives occasion for a brief review of the reasons why effective cooperation of engineers with biomedical scientists requires close association on a full-time basis, preferably in an academic or quasi-academic organization. Similarly, the proposed national or regional \"institutes for instrumentation\" should have academic purposes and attributes. For these institutes to be fully effective, however, there will still be a need for engineers or physical scientists within each biomedical organization. While most engineers will become specialists to some degree, they should do so only after receiving the broadest possible training in the physical sciences."
"The Medical Electronics Center of the Rockefeller Institute seeks to advance the application of electronic techniques in the life sciences and medicine through conferences on specialized topics, by the publication of the Bibliography of Medical Electronics and by acting as a clearing house of ideas and facilities in the field of medical electronics. However, a much greater effort is needed to realize the potentialities of electronics in medicine. An important step forward, overcoming some of the major obstacles to progress, would be the creation of one or several Medical Engineering Research Institutes, having the specific object of facilitating the development, initial production, and clinical testing of apparatus for medical research and practice, and serving at the same time as a training center in the boundary field of medical electronics."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Covers: definitions; membership; groups of members; annual assembly; management, publications and conventions."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Congested band operation as found in the amateur service presents an interesting problem in analysis which can only be solved by statistical methods. Consideration is given to the relative merits of two currently popular modulation techniques, SSB and DSB. It is found that in spite of the bandwidth economy of SS13 this system can claim no over-all advantage with respect to DSB for this service. It is further shown that there are definite advantages to the use of very broadband techniques in the amateur service. The results obtained from the analysils of the radio amateur service are significant, for they challenge the intuitively obvious and universally accepted thesis that congestion in the radio frequency spectrum can only be relieved by the use of progressively smaller transmission bandwidths obtained by appropriate coding and modulation techniques. In order to study the general problem of spectrum utilization, some basic results of information theory are required Some of the significant work of Shannon is reviewed with special emphasis on his channel capacity formula. It is shown that this famous formnula, in spite of its deep philosophical significance, cannot be used meaningfully in the analysis and design of practical, present day communications systems. A more suitable channel capacity formula is derived for the practical case. The analytical results thus obtained are used to show that broadband techniques have definite merit for both civil and military applications."
"A new all electronic infrared imaging system has been designed and constructed. The infrared image of a given field of view is focussed onto a scanning tube which dissects the image; after passing through the scanning tube, the radiation is then refocussed onto a separate infrared detector. The tube face is a semiconducting window. An electron beam, striking the window, generates free carriers and reduces the transmission of the window locally. As the electron beam is swept across the scanning tube face, the moving opaque spot produces a video signal at the detector. Both the conditions for the operation of the device and the over-all sensitivity have been analyzed. It is found that the sensitivity and information rate of the system are limited only by the sensitivity and time constant of the detector employed."
"This paper presents a circuit analysis of frequency multipliers employing nonlinear capacitors. The analysis applies to the case of a multiplier of any order using semiconductor nonlinear capacitors, and specifies impedance levels, power capabilities, and efficiency in terms of the characteristics of the nonlinear element and the associated linear network. From the formulas derived it is possible to specify the optimum nonlinear characteristic for a given circuit and harmonic number, and to calculate the conditions for maximum efficiency. The procedure is also applicable to frequency dividers, and to frequency multipliers employing nonlinear induct ance."
"This paper describes the operating characteristics of an ammonia beam maser. The simple theory for the operation is expanded to predict the angular distribution of the molecules coming from the beam collimator and the effect of the focuser on the velocity distribution of the molecules entering the cavity. Experimental results for the operation of the cavity in the TM001 and TM012 mode show the effects of the variation in beam current and cavity tuning on the frequency and amplitude of oscillation. Relating these results to the theory with the help of measurements of the beam flux density demonstrates the importance of molecular collisions and the beam divergence. Three methods of locating line center are examined, and it is shown that the line centers obtained in each case may be varied over a range of at least 5 parts in l08 by changing the operating parameters."
"The use of coaxial or reentrant resonators is practical at frequencies down through the high-frequency band and even lower. By introducing a helical inner conductor, a Q of several thousand can be achieved in relatively small volume. Design equations are simple and are the basis for an alignment chart. The unloaded Q is equal to 50 times shield diameter in inches times square root of resonance frequency in megacycles. Shield length is about 30 per cent greater than its diameter. Experimental results confirm the accuracy of the predicted Q. The method is also applicable to miniaturized UHF resonators, and to the design of high-Q radio-frequency inductors and LC resonators. Additional formulas and a chart relate frequency, Q, volume, voltage gradient and power rating."
"Digital rate synthesis is a transformation of harmonic synthesis (beat methods) from the frequency to the time domain; the synthesis of harmonics is replaced by pulse techniques. The signal whose period is to be measured or controlled is in the form of a pulse train that has the repetition rate X. A single reference source drives a rate generator which consists of one or more dividing stages in fixed cascade; the output of the generator is a sequence of nonuniformly spaced pulses whose average repetition rate AS is known from the independently controllable connection between the individual stages and their output bus. A rate difference detector compares the rates X and AS. The smoothed detector output has the proper sign and serves to indicate the magnitude of the difference or to reduce the difference in a closed loop, for example, by controlling a tuning motor. The range of direct operation is limited by pulse techniques, but digital and harmonic synthesis can be combined with division and with phase-lock methods to stabilize an oscillator over a practically unlimited band of frequencies, the precision and purity approaching that of the reference source."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"The IGY observations of the earth were related to all its parts, core, crust, oceans, and atmosphere. The sun, the dominant feature in the earth's environment, has been observed more fully and with greater continuity than ever before. The moon's position in the sky has been intensively measured for geodetic reasons. Meteors, observed both visually and by radio, will tell us much about the upper atmosphere. The satellites have revealed new features of the region above the F layer. The sun's atmosphere envelopes the earth and is extremely hot. The heat conducted from it warms the earth's outermost atmosphere and helps to extend it, perhaps to half the distance to the moon."
"A general survey is made of various observations and theoretical possibilities which concern the problems involved in the study of the constitution and composition of the upper atmosphere. The basic problem of the composition of the homosphere and heterosphere is studied after considering the nature of dissociation processes and vertical transport by diffusion. Finally, the effect of thermal conduction on the temperature distribution is shown to be of importance over the entire thermosphere above the E layer."
"The global morphologies of the F1 and F2 regions at magnetically quiet times are reviewed, and attention also is given to the sunspot-cycle variations. The physical conditions, temperature, pressure, recombination coefficients, and collision frequencies are reassessed in the light of recent studies of rocket and satellite results and of diffusion. The theory of the F region is reviewed with special attention to Bradbury's hypothesis and to the effects of transport of ionization. Also considered are the morphology of \"spread-F\" and radio star scintillation phenomena. A theory of the latter is outlined, and it is shown that the undersurface of the F region is unstable at times of upward drift, which appear to be the times when such phenomena are prominent."
"The E layer is situated in the middle ionosphere; its lower boundary is at a level of about 100 km when the sun is vertical. Its maximum ionization density is of the order of 105 electrons per cc but this varies by about 50 to 60 per cent in the course of the sunspot cycle. The production of ionization in the E layer is due to solar photons, most probably of X-ray character. The disappearance of electrons in the E layer is by way of dissociative recombination between electrons and positive molecular ions. E-layer morphology is influenced to a slight extent by horizontal currents flowing in it across the horizontal geomagnetic field; in other words, the E layer is a motor. It is generally considered that such currents are produced by dynamo action in the E layer due mainly to a diurnal horizontal tidal motion of the conducting medium across the earth's vertical magnetic force. The rough parallelism of the intensity of these horizontal currents with E-layer conductivity during the sunspot cycle suggests the simple result that the diurnal horizontal motion itself does not vary substantially with solar activity."
"The general theory of low-frequency sounding in the lower ionosphere is discussed in order to indicate the radio transmission characteristics which a D-layer model must satisfy. D layers based on the fundamental physical processes from 60 to 90 km, which have been presented up to now, have not been completely satisfactory. There is indication that the more accurately determined values of fundamental parameters now available, such as reaction rates, will lead to a more satisfactory model."
"This paper describes the methods now available for calculating the distribution of electrons in the ionosphere from observed virtual height-frequency records. Particular emphasis is given to recently developed machine and manual methods which make it practicable to produce electron distributions on a rapid, routine basis. Attention is drawn to the importance of these data for the physics of the ionosphere by quoting from the results of some existing surveys."
"The ionosphere, even in its \"undisturbed\" state, is constantly in motion. Its charged and uncharged constituents may travel together or independently, while irregularities in the distribution of charge may take a different course again. The pertinent observational data are extensive and, in some cases, conflicting; their interpretation is seldom direct. The theoretical factors affecting that interpretation are becoming clear, though in some cases their areas of relevance are still subject to divergent opinions. An attempt is made here to bring into focus the theoretical factors themselves, to record their bearing on the observations wherever it has been established, and to suggest paths of future progress wherever it has not. Details of observational results and theoretical developments are largely suppressed, and with them the conflicts and discrepancies which, however real, would obscure the presentation of the principles involved."
"When meteors enter the lower E region of the ionosphere, they produce trails of ionization. Sensitive radio systems at frequencies of 3 to 300 mc can record echoes from these ionized trails at rates of thousands per hour. Study of these echoes has benefited astronomy, the physics of the upper atmosphere, and radio communication. This paper presents a review of the nature of meteoric echoes, and describes the principal uses of meteors as research tools. Some of the directions in which further meteoric research may prove profitable are suggested as well. When the results of the IGY programs are correlated, we may expect the knowledge gained from the study of meteors to play an important role."
"A general description of atmospheric whistlers is given. Their discovery, and the development and proof of a theory to explain them, are reviewed. The IGY synoptic program of study is described and examples of results, both individual and statistical, are presented and discussed."
"A brief survey of the main features of solar emissions in connection with solar flares is given: ultraviolet and X-ray radiation, corpuscular emission, radio frequency radiation, and relativistic particles. For these different components of nonthermal emissions the energies are estimated and their effects in the ionosphere are briefly discussed."
"Naturally occurring, very low-frequency signals not associated with lightning discharges, and strongly correlated with solar activity, have been recognized nearly as long as the atmospheric whistlers which have their genesis in lightning discharges. Whereas whistlers have been satisfactorily explained, until recently these other phenomena have not. From the examination of a large quantity of high resolution spectrograms, it has been deduced that a major fraction, if not all, of these other \"noises\" are excited in the exosphere by streams and bunches of high-speed ionized particles precipitating into the ionized atmosphere in the presence of the earth's magnetic field. The electromagnetic waves excited are then propagated in the manner of whistlers. The excitation mechanism is similar to the operation of a traveling-wave tube. Two frequencies are simultaneously generated, and are given by: 2 [ H-c) ] Their values depend only on the three parameters: local electronic density in the exosphere, local magnetic field intensity, and particle velocity V. For a large range of conditions, corresponding to middle latitude observations, the low frequency explains many types of noise, and reduces to (V) 2 COP2 CO1 = ) _. Most of the observations require particle velocities of the order of 10,000 km/sec. The shape of the spectrum is also very sensitive to the ambient electronic density distribution. A model in which the ratio of electron density to magnetic field strength is almost constant, along a line force in most of the exosphere, seems indicated by several types of noise."
"The results are described of statistical investigations made in the F region during magnetic storms. The characteristics of the daily variation of the deviation from the mean critical frequency and of the height of the maximum electron density, Δf0F2 and ΔhPF2, respectively, are shown over the wide range of latitude from the equator to the auroral zone and for the principal seasons of the year. After a brief survey of theories to interpret the observed results, it is shown that the ionization-drift theory, which is associated with the dynamo theory, is almost satisfactory for the consistent interpretation of the various facts observed."
"The aurora is the visible excitation of the gases above the ionosphere by energetic electrons and protons. The auroral patterns are strongly influenced by the geomagnetic field, forming curtains and rays along the magnetic lines of force. The details of the optical excitation in the aurora are very complicated and not well understood. It is clear that both electrons and protons are necessary and that these exciting particles must be accelerated in the vicinity of Earth. We have only rough and untested ideas as to how the protons are accelerated, and why the auroras show a preference for latitude ±65°. We do not understand how and where the electrons are accelerated, or why auroras should have a curtain and ray-like structure, or why the aurora is a night side phenomenon. We wonder to what extent the aurora is associated with the radiation belt around Earth."
"An examination of radio studies of auroral ionization shows that an average ionization density of about 5×105 electrons per cm3 is sufficient to explain the normal radar echo. The magnetic disturbances produced by current systems in the ionosphere are closely related both to the ionization and the luminosity of the aurora. The magnetic variations are also associated with increases in the speeds of motion of the ionization. The increased ionization manifest in the aurora, together with its increased speed of motion, brings about the magnetic changes observed at the ground. The rapid speeds of auroral motions observed both visually and by radio means are at the upper end of a continuous curve of drift motions that increase with increasing magnetic disturbance."
"Abnormal ionization in the lower ionosphere associated with cosmic-ray flux enhancements is discussed mostly in terms of the great solar event of February 23, 1956. Two kinds of abnormality were recognized: early effects observable in the dark hemisphere at the time of the sudden cosmic-ray enhancement, and late effects which began gradually and reached a maximum a few hours after the cosmic-ray enhancement. The late effects died away over a period of several days in geomagnetic latitudes above 70°, but more rapidly in lower latitudes. Both effects were more intense in higher geomagnetic latitudes. Early effects, though much the less intense of the two, appear to have been observable in lower geomagnetic latitudes than the late effects. The early effects are explained as a consequence of a plausible difference in composition between streams of solar particles of cosmicray energies, and ordinary cosmic rays. The late effects are explained in terms of ionization produced in the lower ionosphere (the range of height from 30 to 110 km is studied) by the passage or stopping of solar particles-mostly protons. Such particles are shown, like the more energetic solar cosmic rays, to be arriving essentially isotropically after the maximum effects occur. A plausible extension of the observed magnetic-rigidity spectrum of the solar cosmic rays downward in rigidity by about a power of 10 would provide the protons necessary to account for the observations. The absence of auroral and significant magnetic activity accompanying the abnormal ionization is consistent with the explanations offered."
"A phenomenological description of the night airglow is presented, reviewing the historical background, and what is known about height, temporal and spatial variations in intensity, and movements. The very important relationship to aurora and evidence for latitude-seasonal effects are examined."
"Daytime electron density profiles measured at Fort Churchill have been found to be similar to those observed at White Sands. One winter nighttime flight showed very little ionization, less than 20,000 electrons per cc up to 165 km. Polar blackout produced strong enhancement of the D-region electron density down to 55 km. NO+ is the predominant ion below 200 km during the night, but O+ becomes the most abundant ion above 150 km during the day. Solar flares are accompanied by X-ray bursts capable of penetrating to the 60-km level and sufficiently intense to account for sudden ionospheric disturbances. At night a diffuse glow of Lyman-α is visible over the entire sky. From the observed intensity it is possible to estimate the electron density of interplanetary space."
"A number of so-called \"First Generation\" experiments for exploring the ionosphere with artificial earth satellite vehicles has either been carried out or is planned by the United States and the Soviet Union. The theoretical and experimental bases of these experiments are outlined and discussed, and their limitations emphasized. The first available results are from the Soviet experiments and these are discussed. Finally, a brief consideration is given to the kinds of satellite orbits desirable for ionospheric experiments."
"The creation of the Soviet artificial sputniks of the Earth, and the physical questions to be investigated by them are first discussed. The instruments used on the third sputaik and the problems solved with them are then described; the results obtained are presented simultaneously."
"An improved sweep-frequency ionosphere recorder was needed to carry out the expanded program of observation planned for the IGY. The resulting equipment included improvements in output power, receiver sensitivity, purity of output signal, and other details, over earlier equipments. The basic principles of operation are described and the transceiver-type of circuitry explained. The operating characteristics are: frequency range, 1-25 mc; output power, 10-30 kw peak pulse power; pulse length, 50 μsec; repetition rate, variable from 10-70 pulses per second. An elaborate control and programming system is provided which can be used to operate the equipment on an unattended automatic basis. The \"virtual height\" of the ionospheric layers, as a function of frequency, is recorded on photographic film by two cameras-a 35-mm uniformlymoving-film unit, and a frame-by-frame 16-mm camera, which produces time-lapse motion pictures of the changes which occur. A brief history of the development of the sweep-frequency recorder technique is given."
"Design criteria and operating characteristics of the IGY Fixed-Frequency Backscatter Sounder are outlined. This three-frequency (12, 18, and 30 mc) rotating-antenna pulse sounder was designed at Stanford University for oblique-incidence ionosphere studies. During the IGY a network of these sounders has been operated at thirteen stations in polar, temperate, and equatorial regions. Data reduction and publication of data summaries have been carried out at Stanford using semiautomatic punch card methods. Preliminary analysis of data has yielded new information on sporadic-E, magnetic field aligned irregularities, large-scale traveling disturbances in the F region, and the effects of ionospheric tilts on long-distance propagation."
"A sensitive, self-balancing, noise-measuring equipment, known as the riometer, is described. This instrument has been designed for routine measurement of ionospheric absorption during the IGY, using the cosmic noise method. Application of this technique in the auroral zone has resulted in quantitative measurements of ionospheric absorption, even during polar blackouts. The riometer has the advantages over a simple total-power cosmic noise receiving system of 1) linear response to changes of input noise power, 2) high accuracy in the presence of narrow-band RF interference, and 3) good long-term stability."
"A 5-kw, 41-mc radar which was designed for use in the United States IGY program is described. The standard operating procedures are outlined and a sample of the records is shown. The design of a scaling machine is discussed and a method of utilizing the scaled data to produce an auroral echo activity index is described."
"The IGY World Days and Communications program has four facets: 1) an IGY Calendar of selected days for experiments which cannot be carried on continuously; 2) a scheme for specifying periods when phenomena of unusual interest are anticipated a few hours in advance; 3) the prompt and wide distribution of summary observations of outstanding solar and geophysical events; and 4) the use of the world-wide scientific communications network for processing information of temporal interest. This is a cooperative effort including all the countries participating in the IGY. The paper describes the plan and its execution, including the arrangements for rapid communications."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The existence of artificial earth satellites and of very low-noise maser amplifiers makes microwave links using spherical satellites as passive reflectors seem an interesting alternative to cable or tropospheric scatter for broad-band transatlantic communication. A satellite in a polar orbit at a height of 3000 miles would be mutually visible from Newfoundland and the Hebrides for 22.0 per cent of the time and would be over 7.25° above the horizon at each point for 17.7 per cent of the time. Out of 24 such satellites, some would be mutually visible over 7.25° above the horizon 99 per cent of the time. With 100-foot diameter spheres, 150-foot diameter antennas, and a noise temperature of 20°K, 85 kw at 2000 mc or 9.5 kw at 6000 mc, could provide a 5-mc base band with a 40-db signal-to-noise ratio. The same system of satellites could be used to provide further communication at other frequencies or over other paths"
"Microwave techniques have been stretched well into the millimeter range. The infrared range has recently found extensive practical application. The portion of the spectrum that lies between the two, stretching from about 300 to 3000 kmc (1.0 to 0.1 mm), is, to date, almost unexplored and virtually unexploited. The chief reason for this sparseness of activity is the lack of 300-3000-kmc generators. This paper mentions some factors that have prevented microwave generation techniques from entering this region. A number of ideas and schemes, some extrapolations of microwave techniques, others of a more revolutionary nature, may result in satisfactory generators. Some of these are discussed herein. In addition to generation, there are the associated problems of detection, control, transmission, and measurement. These are discussed briefly, along with some advances in the art that approach solutions."
"By providing in a crystal, carriers of such an energy and such a momentum that at least one of their three main effective masses is negative, it should be possible to obtain wave amplification in such a crystal. The amplifier should work up to about 1000 kmc (0.3 mm wavelength), with a large bandwidth. To obtain carriers of sufficient energy and proper momentum, acceleration by a high field seems most feasible at present. Negative effective masses for relatively low energies may be obtained if the energy contours are re-entrant near the band edge, as is the case for the heavy holes in germanium and, as may be the case for other semiconductors with degenerate band edges. The optical-phonon collision cross-section should also be high in order to obtain sufficient concentration in k-space. If the latter is the case for germanium a verifiable microwave amplifier using the principle would consist of a wafer of p-type germanium with a strong bias field applied in a crystallographic (100) direction, and inserted into a waveguide or a cavity such that the electric vector of the microwave field is perpendicular to the bias field. Such a bulk amplifier has no critical dimensions, receives its power from a dc battery, and has essentially no frequency dependence over the entire radio spectrum. The principle is not restricted to germanium, but should also work with certain other semiconductors. Low-frequency amplifiers and bistable devices are also possible. Some design problems are discussed."
"The comparative signal amplifying capabilities of lumped solid-state and vacuum tube devices of the emitter-control-collector type are described in a very simple, yet general, manner in terms of charge control, charge storage, and charge motion. The emitter-collector charge transit time is shown to be a ubiquitous physical parameter determining current, voltage, and power amplifications and their bandwidth products. Also of central importance is a characteristic capacitance that describes the capability of the inter-electrode space to store mobile charge. The unipolar and analog transistors, the grid-controlled vacuum tube, and the beam deflection tube all have characteristic capacitances approximately equal to their electrode geometrical capacitances. The bipolar transistor holds an advantage over the other solid-state devices because it can have a larger characteristic capacitance. This advantage also holds against the vacuum tube devices, but is tempered by the fact that the latter can have much larger carrier drift velocities. For the solid-state devices it is emphasized that the saturated carrier drift velocity is sometimes a better indication of material merit than carrier mobility. Ultra-high frequency performance of the solid-state devices requires some combination of microscopic dimensions, improved materials, or charge multiplication."
"The equations governing traveling-wave interaction between an electron beam and a slow-wave circuit are formulated in terms of amplitudes of circuit mode and slow and fast space charge modes. The resulting equations are solved to find expressions for the matrix which relates the mode amplitudes at the output of the traveling-wave coupler to the mode amplitudes at the input. The properties of this matrix are discussed and numerical values given for Kompfner Dip. Matrices for velocity jumps and drift regions are also given, and the characteristics of couplers which are preceded by or followed by a drift region and velocity jump are discussed. It is shown that necessary and sufficient conditions for the removal of beam noise from the fast space-charge wave by any lossless coupler are that, for a circuit input, there be no circuit output (M11 = 0) and no slow space-charge wave output (M21 = 0). These results are then applied to the design of fast space-charge wave couplers for longitudinal beam type parametric amplifiers."
"Finite size targets with complex structure such as aircraft present to a radar several reflecting surfaces distributed in space, and these surfaces will move randomly in respect to the radar with the normal yaw, roll and pitch of the aircraft. The resulting random wander of the apparent source of the target echo causes a corresponding fluctuation called target noise in the output of the radar angle-error detectors and a wander of the radar antenna during closed-loop tracking of the target. This wander is called tracking noise. The tracking noise, caused by a finite size target, internal noise and other noise sources, can be minimized by choice of the parameters of the radar AGC (automatic gain control) circuitry and servo-system. Previous papers published on this subject were restricted to open-loop analysis and with assumption of negligible tracking error; however, the analysis in this paper includes actual closed-loop tracking data of a practical tracking radar and shows that under practical tracking conditions a short-time-constant fast-acting AGC will minimize tracking noise. Furthermore, it is shown that the servobandwidth should be kept at the minimum value that is consistent with tactical requirements."
"The problem of microwave breakdown near antennas at high altitudes is considered in order to find limitations on transmission conditions. The fundamental processes are described briefly. The cw breakdown electric fields for frequencies of 100 mc, 3 kmc, 10 kmc, 20 kmc, and 35 kmc are computed on the basis of the available data on atmospheric composition. The maximum peak electric fields and powers for which pulses are almost completely transmitted are also computed for the same frequencies and for several pulse lengths. It is shown that considerably more power per unit area of aperture can be transmitted at the higher frequencies. The validity of the assumptions on which the calculations are based is considered."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"A schedule of 54 technical sessions is given, followed by abstracts of the more than 280 papers to be presented. This year's exhibition will again be held in the New York Coliseum at 59th St. and 8th Ave. A list of the 950 exhibitors and their products appears in \"Whom and What to See at the Radio Engineering Show\" in the advertising section of this issue."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A new computing scheme was proposed by von Neumann in a patent submitted in 1954 and granted posthumously last December. This paper is an explanatory statement of those ideas. The concept of using the phase of a sine-wave signal as an information-bearing medium which together with majority logic permits the realization of logic operations is described in detail. Simple logical aggregates are given as examples."
"A base layer transit time analysis has been made for high-frequency transistor base donor distributions. Transit time is defined as stored charge per unit emitter current. The emphasis on the stored charge/current ratio is particularly pertinent to high-frequency performance and facilitates qualitative analyses. The analysis applies to a p-n-p transistor in which the base donor density at the emitter (which specifies emitter breakdown voltage and emitter capacity for an alloyed emitter) and total number of donors per unit area of the base (which determines base resistance and emitter to collector punch-through voltage) are specified. It is shown that shorter transit times result with retarding fields since smaller base thicknesses are possible. It is thus shown that a built-in field is of lesser importance in determining transit time than is base thickness."
"Three-port nonreciprocal Hall effect devices have been made which circulate dc and ac signals either in a clockwise or counterclockwise sense. Forward losses of 17 db and reverse losses of 61 db have been obtained, giving a transmission ratio of 44 db. With the aid of simple six-resistor networks (or even simpler three-resistor networks) the nine short circuit admittance parameters of the circulator can be adjusted in a calculable manner. These networks permit asymmetrical circulators to appear symmetrical, to operate over a wide range of impedance levels, to operate with any value of magnetic field, and to introduce no loss-or even gain-if negative resistances are used. An analysis of the circulator, with and without the parallel networks, is included. It is shown that the minimum possible forward loss for a Hall effect circulator is 8.4 db."
"In the past a considerable amount of experimental evidence presented by various workers has indicated that gain apparently occurs in a traveling-wave type device even though the voltage may be so high that growing waves cease to exist. This means, in terms of Pierce's traveling-wave tube theory, that the growth constant of the growing wave x1 is zero in this regime of operation. A theory explaining this phenomenon has been worked out and both small-signal and large-signal calculations have been carried out to investigate the characteristics of this type of operation. The gain occurs in this region due to a beating effect produced between the three small-signal forward waves described in traveling-wave tube theory as they travel along the RF structure. The maximum achievable gain is determined by the injection velocity and not by the length of the tube as in the normal case. Based on the above theory a device named the Crestatron, which utilizes this new mode of operation, has been built and tested to verify the theory, and it has been found that moderate gain (10-20 db) and high operating efficiency coupled with a very short length (4-6 wave-lengths) characterize this mode of operation."
"Experiments with silicon junction diodes and transistors have shown that previous theoretical expressions for the noise of such elements do not hold for silicon. New theoretical expressions are derived on the basis of recombination-generation in the depletion layer. These new expressions are satisfactorily checked by experiments in the case of low-level current injection. At high-level injection, however, deviations occur, for which no exact theory is known."
"The behavior of a hot-wire anemometer is analyzed using signal flow diagrams, especially for the case of a constant-temperature-operation anemometer, comprising a dc bridge and a dc differential amplifier. The influence of static bridge unbalance and of the amplifier's gain for in-phase input signals on the over-all dynamic characteristics is analyzed, and requirements for the amplifier are derived. A chopper-stabilized amplifier is employed, which automatically maintains static bridge balance under all operating conditions. The signal-to-noise ratio for comparable instruments having constant-current operation and constant-temperature operation is shown to be equal. Results of measurements are reported; they are in fair agreement with the developed theory. A nonlinear circuit is described, which delivers a voltage directly proportional to the instantaneous air velocity."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The measuring system used for scientific work affords a means of making physical measurements with great precision and accuracy. The best measurements can be made of the quantities taken for the basis of the system. A decrease in both accuracy and precision arises in measuring quantities which are related to them in a complicated way. The standards which fix the magnitudes of the units on which the system is based appear to be very constant. Some improvement in the system may be obtained by substituting physical constants for these standards. This has already been done for the standard of temperature, and it can be done advantageously for the standards of length and time; but there seems to be no way to replace advantageously the standard for mass."
"The purpose of this paper is to supplement the preceding paper by describing in some detail the various measuring procedures and supporting research which must be carried on by a national standardizing laboratory to meet its responsibilities related to a single one of the many units of measurement on which modern science, engineering and industry are based. The example chosen is the ampere, the unit of electric current in the MKSA system. The tasks involved naturally fall into five successive stages, namely; the definition, establishment, maintenance, extension and dissemination of the unit."
"A review is given of communication progress under the cognizance of the U. S. Army Signal Research and Development Laboratory since World War II. The strong dependence on and close cooperation maintained with non-Government institutions is emphasized. Operational and technical areas are discussed and equipment shown to illustrate the present state-of-the-art in meeting conmunication requirements for U. S. Army preparedness."
"The low radio frequencies are of considerable importance in specific radio communication applications. However, little improvement has been made in recent years in methods of engineering low-frequency systems. In this paper the factors that influence the design of a communication system at low radio frequencies are discussed, and a description is given of some experimental work designed to obtain information concerning optimum values of some of the design parameters."
"A brief historical review is presented of ionospheric work leading to the development of radio prediction techniques in order to provide a background and to emphasize the fact that all prediction methods are relatively quite \"young.\" A bibliography of Canadian work is given. The merits and defects of some prediction techniques are discussed with particular attention to the Canadian problem in the far north. The results of recent research are shown to hold promise in the field of predictions. The paper concludes with some speculation on possible trends in both long- and short-term prediction methods."
"This paper proposes an extension of the angle diversity technique as a means towards solution of several problems restricting use of over-the-horizon microwave communications. The paper suggests application of a microwave multibeam system as an attack on the problems of transmitter tube limitations, \"medium to aperture\" coupling loss, and UHF-band interference. A simple experimnent is described and results evaluated. The experiment provides a measure of verification of previous theoretical work on which the proposed technique is based. Results of numerous path calculations are included to provide the reader with an estimate of improvement to be gained by the use of this expansion of the angle diversity technique over a conventional system."
"For radio operation in the frequency range of 30 mc downward, ordinary amplitude modulation (AM) has been most widely used. In order to overcome certain known deficiencies of AM, variations of AM have been evolved. One of these, single sideband operation with the carrier suppressed at the transmitter (SSB), has proved its superiority over AM in transatlantic operations for nearly twenty-five years. A notice of proposed rule-making by the FCC, in 1955, to make mandatory the use of SSB below 25 mc in certain services, quickly caused two other systems to be put forward for consideration. These were 1) a system of transmitting both sidebands with the carrier suppressed at the transmitter (DSB), and 2) a form of single sideband with the carrier transmitted, called Compatible Single Sideband (CSSB). This paper deals mostly with a comparison of SSB and DSB, with emphasis on the applications to the aeronautical mobile service."
"A survey is given of techniques used in the measurement of radiation fields at radio frequencies. These measurements are divided into three broad classifications dealing with fundamental studies of electromagnetic waves, antenna design, and antenna performance. These classifications in turn include diffraction, scattering, transmission and reflection, current distribution, aperture fields, radiation patterns, and gain."
"Submarine communication antenna systems are divided into three systems: VLF, HF, and UHF. The evolution of each system from World War II to the present is described, and some of the problems associated with the antennas in each frequency band are reviewed. HF transmission line systems and their losses are discussed, and various environmental problems are considered. Specific examples of stacked and combined antennas are given."
"Evaluation of atmospheric refraction effects on UHFVHF radio propagation has long been accomplished with the convenient four-thirds earth concept of Schelling, Burrows, and Ferrell. This method has proven particularly useful in evaluating performance of point-to-point radio communications systems. However, relatively new long-range applications have demanded a model of atmospheric radio refractive index more representative of observed refractive index profiles than the simple linear decay inherent in the four-thirds earth approach. This paper introduces two models of atmospheric radio refractive index which can be used to predict refraction effects from the value of the refractive index at the transmitting point. Both models offer considerable improvement over the four-thirds earth model, particularly for applications at long distances and high elevations in the atmosphere. Further, both models may be adjusted to represent mean conditions at different times of year and in different geographical locations. A new method of predicting radio-ray refraction at very low initial elevation angles is introduced which utilizes both the initial value and the initial height-gradient of the refractive index over roughly the first 100 meters above the earth's surface. This method, which is dependent only upon the first two radiosonde reporting levels or simple tower measurements of the common meteorological elements, results in a considerable improvement of the values of ray-refraction predicted by the model."
"This paper deals with the Naval Research Laboratory's airborne research in military radar and propagation problems. The military problems include predictions of radar and propagation conditions at specific places and times, and hence, fruitful research must be directed at establishing the geophysical causes of signal behavior. The flying laboratory system for quantitative measurements of ground and sea-clutter and of microwave field strengths is described, and some of the experimental conclusions given. Philosophy and equipment of a new research aircraft for radar and propagation studies is described, and its optimum use in airborne propagation research is outlined."
"An analysis is made of sporadic-E propagation observed on the Cedar Rapids to Sterling path during the four years, 1952-1955. VHF transmissions over this path at frequencies of 27.775 mc and 49.8 mc provided the Es data. At this latitude, the summer months receive the preponderance of sporadic E. Diurnally, sporadic-E occurrence tends to favor the day-time and evening hours with peaks of incidence about 1000 and 1800. No variation with sunspot number has been discerned. As a rule, higher Es signal intensities are recorded at 28 than at 50 mc. Cumulative distributions of signal intensity are presented for the two frequencies. A relationship is found between the frequency dependence of Es signal intensities ≥-70 db, relative to inverse distance, and the distribution of fEs values at Washington, D.C. The relationship promises to be useful in the prediction of Es signal intensities on a worldwide basis. An inverse correspondence is shown between sporadic-E occurrence and geomagnetic activity. The correspondence holds only over selected time intervals. The frequency dependence of received power under sporadic-E conditions is different from that during normal scatter. The median frequency exponent is two or more times as large for sporadic E, and the exponents cover a much wider range of values. This is tentatively explained by considering the Es region to be composed of patches of intense nonuniform ionization, an hypothesis previously used to explain vertical-incidence data."
"The most recent results of a continuing research program devoted to the study of long-distance VHF radiowave propagation are presented. Data obtained from measurements made at 50 and 220 mc on the surface and in the air are given which extend our previous results and clarify some important aspects of tropospheric and ionospheric propagation at extreme distances and heights."
"The paper discusses the design of a self-contained navigational aid for aircraft. There are many techniques and variations upon which such a system may be based. The one chosen for discussion is a hybrid system which combines an inertial north reference, a Doppler navigational radar, and an airspeed indicator. A velocity triangle computer relates these three sources of input data, so that the airspeed indicator may fill in when there is no radar signal. The output of these instruments, track angle and distance, is fed to a positional computer and thence to a steering computer, so that both positional and steering information may be supplied to the pilot. Part I introduces the general problem of a self-contained navigational aid, the possible sources of input data, the usual frames of reference within which aircraft position may be stated, and the forms of route to a destination which may be derived. Part II describes an FM Doppler radar as part of an over-all navigational system, and Part III the circuit implementation of the radar, based on transistors. Part IV describes a converter for connecting the radar to an analog positional computer, and some velocity vector triangle computers. Part V discusses a digital form of positional computer and some of the necessary digital processes. The paper concludes with Part VI, which presents the problem of steering computation and some ideas on the implementation of a complete system."
"This paper describes a VHF omnirange, the operation of which is based upon an application of the Doppler effect. Progress in the development of a Doppler VOR is outlined. The Doppler VOR has a measured 7-to-1 improvement with respect to siting effects when compared to the conventional four-loop VHF omnirange. The wave transmitted by the Doppler VOR is horizontally polarized. The unique interchange in the functions of the 30-cps amplitude modulation and the 30-cps frequency modulation of a 9.96-kc subcarrier is described. The Doppler VOR is shown to be compatible with present VHF omnirange receiving equipment. The results reported in this paper were obtained by experimentation and mathematical analysis."
"Distance measuring systems using random noise as the modulating function are described. The distance measurement is accomplished by correlating the modulation on the transmitted and received signals. The spectrum of the modulating function determines the way in which this correlation, and hence system output, depends on distance to a reflecting target. Physical realizability of filters limits the output-to-distance behavior of linear, noise-modulated systems. Theoretically, either amplitude or frequency modulation can be used, but the latter has distinct advantages in overcoming incidental spurious signals generated within the system. Actual multiplication of signals is avoided through use of a conventional mixer. The resulting system is similar to existing altimeters but is free of the ambiguities inherent in periodically modulated systems, avoids the \"fixed error,\" and is capable of measuring distances down to a few feet. This makes it particularly suited for use as an altimeter in blind landing systems."
"This paper describes special VLF propagation measurements in connection with a feasibility study of a long range navigation system. Round-trip single-frequency measurement of phase stability was made between Hawaii and San Diego on frequencies from 10.2 kc to 18.2 kc in 1 kc increments. During January 15 to 23, 1958, the standard deviation of phase stability on 12.2 kc was 4 μsec daytime and 5 μsec night time. One-way two-frequency transmissions were monitored in San Diego and Washington, D.C., to determine the phase stability of a I kc difference frequency for pairs of frequencies from 10.2 kc to 18.2 kc. Data analyzed at time of submission of this paper (10.2-16.2 kc) indicate limitations of the two-frequency system for lane identification (resolution of cyclic ambiguities corresponding to one period of the carrier frequency). The techniques used to instrument these tests are considered somewhat unique. Data reported herein are general and applicable to any propagation study. The data being collected are leading to a better understanding of the mechanism of VLF propagation."
"This paper covers several of the significant \"inservice improvements,\" including the introduction of simulation study techniques, new displays, and automatic data processing that have been taken to meet the air traffic control requirements. A review of the three basic simulation methods: graphical, dynamic, and fast time is provided together with a description of the dynamic simulation facilities at the Technical Development Center of the Federal Aviation Agency (FAA), Indianapolis, Ind. The requirements for daylight viewing displays and the programns conducted to obtain TV types of radar displays are included. The report concludes with the introduction of digital computers to perform certain data processing functions."
"This article describes the logical design of a pulsed analog-digital computer which could be used to solve the system of nonlinear differential equations normally encountered in the simulation of aircraft. The design calls for a magnetic drum to perform the functions of storing the program and the aerodynamic data required in the computation. Time-shared analog computing elements encompassing the normal arithmetic operations of addition, subtraction, multiplication and division are used. They are connected to a common bus through gating circuits. In addition, electronic integrators (one for each integration required) and analog-storage elements are provided. Utilizing these elements sequentially, it is possible to complete a computation cycle in each revolution of the drum. Function generation is accomplished in this computer by means of specialized circuitry which determines the position of the four surrounding break points of a given value of a function of two or more variables. The discrete values of the function at the break points are selected from digital drum storage for an interpolation procedure. A type of \"floating point\" system is included to scale automatically all voltages to fall within optimum levels for the operating elements. The computer appears to offer the advantages of flexibility, compactness, ease of programming, and economy commensurate with the limited accuracies required in flight-training simulation."
"A computer program has been developed which permits an approximate determination of a satellite orbit from a minimal amount of tracking data."
"In 1947, an investigation was begun at the U. S. Naval Research Laboratory to study noise in tracking radars. Of particular interest was the noise which was found to be caused by a target when it is of finite size and complex shape; this suggested a new basis for optimum radar design. With the increasing emphasis on precision in radar guidance in the space and missile age, complete instrumentation was prepared to permit investigation of target-scintillation or target-noise phenomena. While extensive theoretical studies were being carried out, the instrumentation was built to include a unique simulator of multiple, finite-size targets with a complete closed-loop-tracking system, an instrumentation radar composed of a dualchannel-tracking radar for measurement of components of target noise under actual tracking conditions, and equipment designed to provide automatic statistical analysis of noise data. The results of these studies showed several ways in which different components of the target noise affect the radar-tracking performance and how these components determine the choice of tracking systems and optimum design of the system. The studies revealed phenomena such as the two-reflector target, which can cause tracking errors of many target spans outside the physical extent, and a new concept of target noise in terms of a tilting of the phase front of the echo signal from a target."
"This article contains a review of a ten-year program of underwater acoustic research which has led to a ten-fold improvement in the capability of submarines to detect and track target vessels by means of passive sonar. Included in the article are a brief historical review of submarine sonar techniques utilized by the United States and other countries and a discussion of experimental sonar arrays developed by the Underwater Sound Laboratory. Technical information obtained from these experiments was incor porated into specifications for improved sonars now installed in submarines of the United States Navy."
"The problems involved in designing an underwater sound transducer for the audio-frequency range are discussed, and a new transducer for the range from about 40 cps to about 20 kc is described."
"The results of a theory of echo detection developed for radar are extended to sonar for the case of narrow-banid transmitted signals. The exposition specifically omits discussion of the decision problem and the statistical nature of the whole process of detection. The theory assumes that the received signal is processed by cross correlation with a normalized replica of the expected signal. The problem of echo to noise is analyzed by sampling theory leading, in the case of Gaussian noise, to the energy principle which states that in all cases the output echo-to-noise ratio is the ratio of the input signal energy to the input noise power spectrum density. The threshold effect in detection is briefly discussed in conjunction with the problem of noise ambiguities. The problem of echo to reverberation (clutter) is treated by the use of the time and frequency shift correlation function leading to the ambiguity diagrams for various waveforms. The calculation of the relative reverberation power for short and long pulses of single frequency, FM and pseudorandom or noise-like waveforms for certain special cases is presented to illustrate the application of these principles. The paper concludes with a discussion of some limitations to the theory in terms of its narrow-band approximation, the instability of platforms and medium, and combined space-time ambiguities."
"A program on microelectronics (electronic microminiaturization) has been underway for the past two years at the Diamond Ordnance Fuze Laboratories (DOFL). Fourteen-component-part, transistorized binary counters were fabricated on 1/2-inch squares of steatite ceramic, 1/50 inch in thickness; and 5-part NOR's, on 1/2-inch squares of the same thickness. The techniques that have proved most useful in the program have been 1) photolithographic procedures for the accurate placement at microscopic dimensions of physical masks and electrical insulation, 2) thin film deposition using vacuum, chemical, and screening methods, 3) the use of a conductive adhesive which yields high strength and low resistivity connections, and 4) ultrasonic drilling and air abrasion enabling substrates and devices to be formed to desired sizes and shapes. Concurrent with the physical fabrication, studies were made of detailed circuit design and system applications. Future work will include 1) refinement of the present techniques to achieve inexpensive, reliable circuit wafers capable of mass production by industry, and 2) development of advanced methods more fully utilizing thin film deposition and diffusion techniques."
"Among the diverse activities of research and development of electronic parts at the U. S. Army Signal Research and Development Laboratory, particular emphasis has been placed on the evolution of a coherent and practical microminiaturization \"system.\" An objective analysis of the several techniques suitable for a system base indicates that the advantages of each of the techniques could be combined logically into an approach called the \"micromodule.\" The flexibility of this system to assimilate advancements in the state of the art, its compatibility to mechanized assembly, and its short- and long-range applicability as a universal construction system for all low and medium power circuits are reviewed. The weakness of \"miniaturization for miniaturization's sake\" is discussed frankly, and perspective is drawn for microminiature, circuits, for digital circuits and for general electronic usage. Latest experimental micro-modules are illustrated and their features are discussed. Several complex solid-state circuits are shown and quantitatively assessed to show the ultimate capabilities of this approach and its adaptability to the micro-module construction philosophy."
"Since World War II, the infrared image converter tube used by the Armed Forces for night observation has been greatly improved. Recent developments in electronics have led to a number of improved image converter tubes sensitive to infrared or ultraviolet radiation, as well as image intensifier devices which will permit observation under starlight illumination with no projected radiation whatsoever. The devices described are of interest to astronomers, radiologists, and nuclear physicists, as well as to the military. Some of the devices have already been constructed while others face serious technological problems. The Corps of Engineers is supporting a program of research in this field to provide image intensifier systems for the Armed Forces."
"Two programs of electronics research at the Naval Ordnance Laboratory are reviewed. These are photoconductor research and polarity coincidence correlation. In Part I an account is given of investigations of the lead salts, PbS, PbSe, and PbTe, which have led to a consistent theory of photoconductivity and infrared photoconductive detectors. In Part II the theory of polarity coincidence correlation is reviewed, and some of the considerations involved in developing equipment for particular applications are discussed."
"Applications exist which require data on the large signal properties of ferroelectrics at room and elevated temperatures. This paper presents experimental results of measurements on the polarization change, piezoelectric coefficient, and pyroelectric charge release for several polycrystalline compounds. The piezoelectric properties are expressed as a function of stress (both statically and dynamically) up to the crushing strength of the material, while the sample temperature ranges from ambient to its Curie point. From mechanical, electrical, and temperature considerations, evaluations are offered for barium titanate, lead titanate-lead zirconate, and lead metaniobate."
"The advent of ferroelectric materials, especially in the ceramic state, has worked a veritable revolution in the design and production of many equipments. The inpact on certain military arts has been striking; the field of accelerometers has profited well as has the sonar art. The experience of the Naval Air Undersea Warfare effort is outlined as well as several developments of the National Bureau of Standards. The instances cited are examples of widespread military applications. The development of microminiature hydrophones and their use in cardiac diagnosis is also described."
"This paper discusses the problems facing the electronic research and development engineer in designing modern naval ordnance equipment. Four distinct areas are presented and are illustrated by the following particular developments: underwater ordnance, missile carried ordnance equipments, equipment intended for field system evaluation and training, and test sets for subsystem testing. Technical details are given on the meteorological rocket HASP, the Miss Distance Measurement System, AN/USQ-11, and applications of the recently developed Solion."
"This paper describes the progress at Rome Air Development Center (RADC) in converting reliability from a black art to a science. A brief history of and the need for a reliability program for Air Force ground electronic equipment are described. Also described are the results to date and future efforts and expected results. The RADC reliability program has had as its aim the development of techniques for quantitatively specifying; measuring and predicting the reliability of Air Force ground electronic equipment. Concurrently with these efforts, RADC has been pursuing a program of improved design techniques in such areas as cooling, reliable circuit design, redundancy and preferred circuits. The following achievements are described: a reliability design handbook; a cooling techniques handbook; reliability specifications for development and production equipments which quantitatively specify the reliability to be achieved and outline the test procedure to determine whether the specified figure has been met; a reliability design procedure which permits an engineer to design electronic equipment to meet a specified reliability figure; and a prediction technique which permits a designer to predict, within limits, the quantitative reliability that an equipment will achieve in the field."
"Four instruments useful in the mechanized analysis of noise signals are described. They are a noise data digitizer, a sound field contour plotter, a probability analyzer, and a correlation computer. A description of analytical and experimental approaches to the extraction of useful information from stored statistical data is included."
"A system is described for measuring the velocity of test sleds on the Supersonic Naval Ordnance Research Track (SNORT) with an rms error of less than 0.1 ft/second over a velocity range of 200 to 2000 ft/second and a bandwidth of 50 cps. Instrumentation consists of two data sources: sled-position vs time is measured with a magnetic-pickup track-coil system, and sled acceleration vs time is measured with a sled-borne accelerometer and PDM telemetry system. The tape-recorded data are converted to digital form and entered into the IBM-704 computer by automatic assessment equipment. The two different sets of data are combined by a near-optimum digital filtering technique to provide a set of hybrid wide-bandwidth data."
"The development of underwater missile tracking instrumentation is reviewed, and current underwater tracking ranges are described. Three approaches have been taken to the problem of tracking a torpedo: internal instrumentation, external fixed-site tracking ranges, and portable tracking arrays. The principal tracking method employed is that of a fixed-site tracking range. The technique is to plant an array of hydrophones, which receive sound pulses generated in the moving vehicle. The relative arrival tinle of the pulses, known array geometry, and propagation velocity are then employed to compute the coordinates, speed, and acceleration of the underwater missile."
"Automatic equipment is described to fulfill a requirement for optimized operation of reservoirs and other flood-control structures by allowing rapid and unattended reporting of river levels and precipitation amounts from remote points. The emphasis is on design of telemetering networks and system engineering for VHF-radio transmission of the data. A recent development in precipitation telemetering is also described."
"An instrument has been developed for the control of diagnostic coronary arteriography. The method requires the automatic injection of a small amount of radio-opaque dye into the arteries at a preselected interval of the cardiac cycle, and the initiation of an X-ray exposure at the time of optimum coronary filling. The sequence of events is initiated by either the peak of the electrocardiogram R-wave or the aortic systolic pressure wave. Electronic variable time-delay circuits independently open and close a solenoid valve determining the time of injection and the amount of dye injected. A third delay circuit actuates the X-ray exposure."
"Although a field not usually thought of as depending upon electronics, sanitary engineering is feeling the impact of growing electronics instrumentation. This paper discusses specific developments in the areas of air pollution, radiological health, milk and food sanitation, and water supply and water pollution."
"A brief discussion is given outlining the problems of air pollution and the necessary instrumentation. The conventional types of instruments in general use are summarized, and a review of special developments is given. Attention is called to the design and development requirements of instruments needed for current and future studies of the air pollution problem."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a list of abstracts by number and their corresponding issues and pagination."
"A name followed by \"and\" is that of the first author of a jointly written paper, while the word \"with\" indicates that the name inidexed is that of the second author."
"Numbers refer to chronological list."
"A selection of the journals which are regularly scanned for content of interest to our readers is given here, together with the addresses of publishers or editorial offices and the abbreviations of titles as used in the Abstracts and References. Applications for copies of any journal should be made to the addresses given. The full title of each journal is given first and is followed by the address, the abbreviated title being shown within parentheses. In a few cases the nature of a journal is indicated, where neither the title nor the address shows it clearly."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Man's escape from the confines of his planet offers him revolutionary opportunities for performing whole new ranges of scientific experiments, notably in such fields as astronomy, physics and geophysics. Electronics, because it provides the vital nerve system for such experiments, will be at the very center of these new exploits in space. Moreover, earth satellites, possibly in a 24-hour equatorial orbit, promise to open a new era in global communications in which almost limitless bandwidths may become available at relatively low cost. Space will become a major part of the activities of the IRE and its members in the future. Already there is developing a need for international planning of space-age communications standards and of regulations for utilizing satellites for man's greatest benefit."
"This paper treats in terms of the special theory of relativity: a \"clock paradox\" involving the fact that the frequency of an atomic oscillator on a moving body is lowered but the mass which is converted into radiation is increased; the case of the twin who goes on a space trip at near-light speed and returns younger than his brother on earth; the shift in frequency in the presence of a gravitational field; the clock rate on a satellite; the speed attainable by a photon rocket; and a space ship propelled by the energy of interstellar matter."
"The design and operating characteristics of a maser radiometer for use in radio astronomy at 3-cm wavelength are discussed. The operating system which is described has a bandwidth of 5.5 mc and an input noise temperature, including background radiation into the antenna, of about 85°K. An rms fluctuation level of about 0.04°K is attained using an averaging time of 5 seconds. A discussion of the factors determining the sensitivity of such devices is presented."
"It has previously been considered either impossible or impractical to make tantalum oxide capacitors by applying a metal counter electrode directly to a tantalum oxide film. Attempts in this direction have led to either direct shorts or low breakdown strength. For this reason, it has been presumed that it was essential to use either an electrolyte or a semiconductor in the cathode structure. Using sputtered tantalum films as the base for the anodized oxide film, however, excellent results have been achieved employing evaporated metal counter electrodes. Many of the properties of units made in this way are superior to those of other types of tantalum capacitors. Capacitances obtained are comparable to the capacitance-area relationships for tantalum electrolytic capacitors formed to the same voltages. DC leakages, however, have been found to be much lower than values reported for those of tantalum electrolytic units. Another advantage is that these units are capable of withstanding higher voltages than will tantalum solid electrolytic capacitors formed to the same voltage. Indeed, voltages equal to the anodizing voltage may be maintained on the capacitor without impairment. Capacitors have also been produced with thin films of other anodizable metals, evaporated aluminum in particular. This type of capacitor should find many applications in the lower capacitance areas, and seems ideally suited for printed circuit applications."
"This paper provides analyses of three types of diversity combining systems in practical use. These are: selection diversity, maximal-ratio diversity, and equal-gain diversity systems. Quantitative measures of the relative performance (under realistic conditions) of the three systems are provided. The effects of various departures from ideal conditions, such as non-Rayleigh fading and partially coherent signal or noise voltages, are considered. Some discussion is also included of the relative merits of predetection and postdetection combining and of the problems in determining and using long-term distributions. The principal results are given in graphs and tables, useful in system design. It is seen that the simplest possible combiner, the equal-gain system, will generally yield performance essentially equivalent to the maximum obtainable from any quasi-linear system. The principal application of the results is to diversity communication systems and the discussion is set in that context, but many of the results are also applicable to certain radar and navigation systems."
"A simple physical theory is developed which permits a calculation of the significant points of avalanche transistor transient behavior. A model for the transistor is defined in terms of charge variables and the physical parameters of the device. The transient performance of the model is calculated by focusing attention on the minority carrier charge stored in the base region and the influence of basewidth modulation upon this stored charge. In the charge formulation of the problem, the physical details of the avalanche multiplication process need not be considered; multiplication is accounted for by the boundary conditions which it imposes upon the stored charge. Good agreement has been obtained between calculated and experimentally observed data for a simple avalanche transistor relaxation oscillator."
"Some aspects of the phenomena of impact ionization in an impurity doped semiconductor at 4.2°K are described. The ionization time is shown to be a strong inverse function of the electric field. Control of the breakdown process is used to obtain pulse amplification in the millimicrosecond range, using two- and three-terminal devices. These devices are inherently stable, very simply constructed (requiring only ohmic contacts), and have easily manageable dimensions. In controlling the breakdown process, a small amount of control power or energy applied at an early time determines the course of an avalanche-type buildup so that at a later time a substantial change in power or energy level is affected. Although other rise time control amplifiers are known (e.g., the super-regenerative vacuum tube amplifier), the present amplifier is believed to be the first solid state device which operates on this principle. Peak power and current gains on the order of 20 have been obtained for 25 and 50 mμsec pulses. It also appears that voltage gain is possible under somewhat different operating conditions than have been examined to date. The lower limit for pulse length in these experiments was determined by measurement equipment limitations rather than by any device limitation."
"This new device operates by the controlled transfer of polarization through two or more ferroelectric dielectric sections in series and therefore is named \"transpolarizer.\" It represents a new basic means for storing and gating electrical signals and, in general, means to control circuit impedance in any predetermined manner according to a stored setting. The operation of a two section transpolarizer is described. The unique storage, switching, and control properties of the transpolarizer open a large field of new applications and permit production of new devices and systems such as: recording and reproducing of intelligence in general and, more particularly, switching with a permanent setting, small and large scale storage devices with nondestructive readout, decoders, function generators, etc."
"A geometric-analytic theory of transition is presented and applied to circuit theory. A transition from one state to another is represented in a complex plane by two points which, by variation of a parameter, approach each other, coalesce, and then separate along trajectories perpendicular to the original trajectories. Three analogous cases are treated, namely 1) Movements of fixed points in the complex impedance plane and the complex reflection coefficient plane (Smith chart), 2) Movements of poles in the complex frequency plane, and 3) Movements of saddle points in the complex frequency plane. In the analytic treatment, the linear fractional transformation (Moebius transformation) is used, which makes conformal graphical methods applicable in the geometric treatment. Such a method is, for example, the isometric circle method. By mapping stereographically the complex plane on the Riemann unit sphere, we see that a transition can be represented in three dimensions by the movements of two straight lines, each being the polar of the other with respect to the sphere. The transition takes place when both lines are perpendicular and tangent to the sphere at a point corresponding to the transition point."
"The novel ferrite-actuated variable phase shifter reported by F. Reggia and E. G. Spencer operates on a principle which, while resembling that of the familiar Faraday rotation devices, differs from them in a way which leads to quite different and unexpected behavior. The observed properties of the device depend on the interaction between the radiation and the ferrite taking place under several special conditions: namely, elliptic waveguide symmetry, a variation in the permeability associated with the magnetic disorder of the unsaturated ferrite, and a dielectric-waveguide effect. The essential properties of the device can be explained with the aid of a simplified model in which the radiation is represented by plane waves. The contribution of the dielectric-waveguide effect can be estimated on the basis of known solutions of a simpler problem, namely that of a dielectric rod partially filling circular guide. The model furnishes insight into the characters of the modes of propagation under conditions resembling those of the Faraday rotator but subject to elliptic symmetry and other complications."
"The uses of phase-locked oscillators are briefly reviewed. A simple automatic-phase-control (APC) system is analyzed as a servomechanism analog. Three major characteristics of the system are considered: the lock range, the capture range, and the filter bandwidth. The lock range is the total drift in the unlocked oscillator frequency which can be exactly compensated by the locked system. The capture range is the largest unlocked frequency difference at which synchronization, or lock-in, will occur. The filter bandwidth of the system expresses the performance of the system as a low-pass filter with respect to FM noise components existing in the input to the system and as a high-pass filter with respect to FM noise components generated within the output oscillator. The mutual interdependence of these characteristics and the various quantities affecting each one are discussed. The conditions for stable operation of the system are established. The unlocked, locking-in, and locked conditions of operation and the effects of the low-pass filter are discussed. Simple design criteria are established."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The Secretary's Report is published so the membership may be informed of the more important factors affecting the operation of Institute. Topics covered include membership issues, publication of the Proceedings, Sections news, Awards, finance matters, death announcements, and reviews of recent meetings"
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Various analog situations in acoustics and electromagnetic waves are described. Certain higher order modes of airborne sound waves in tubes possess a transverse or polarized nature, and electromagnetic properties such as cutoff effects, polarization rotation, and circular polarization can be shown for these sound waves. Externally-guided sound waves, similar to radio waves guided by a dielectric rod, are also discussed, as are superdirective acoustic and electromagnetic arrays, space-frequency equivalence in arrays, and experiments in wave diffraction."
"This paper deals with an interesting type of voltage-controlled negative resistance in heavily doped semiconductor junction diodes. The effect, discovered and explained by Esaki, is due to quantum-mechanical tunneling of carriers through the junction. In the present article, experimental and theoretical results are given which show the diode has great promise for frequencies in the kilomegacycle region. Diodes with a negative conductance of a mho or more have been made; they oscillate above 1 kmc, generate harmonics over 4 kmc, and switch in 2 msecμ. From a gain-bandwidth analysis based on a proposed equivalent circuit, the limiting time constant is shown to be the product of the negative resistance and the junction transition capacitance. According to quantum theory, this product can be varied over a wide range by nominal changes in the free carrier concentration. Germanium diodes with 4.8 by 1019 carriers/cm2 have a measured gain-bandwidth of 1 kmc. Further material development should increase this factor to 10 kmc. The high negative conductance of the junction coupled with its high shunt susceptance make the device admittance much higher than is normally encountered. As a result, the series impedance of the device mount becomes important. Since the negative resistance is voltage controlled, establishing an operating point requires a voltage supply with internal resistance lower than the magnitude of the negative resistance. Under such conditions, the problem of suppressing parasitic oscillations in the mount and external circuit is serious."
"The cryosar is a high-speed two-terminal computer component whose operation, at liquid helium temperature (4.2°K), is based on impact ionization of impurities in germanium. Two types of cryosars are discussed: the first, fabricated using uncompensated germanium, exhibits a high resistivity (~107 ohm-cm) until a critical field (~10 volts/cm) is reached, after which the current increases by as much as seven orders of magnitude; the second, fabricated using compensated p-type germanium, has similar electrical characteristics except that a negative resistance region occurs between the high- and low-impedance states, making bistable operation possible. These properties are due to bulk effects, and since both contacts are ohmic, the device is bilateral. The first type of cryosar can perform the functions of an ordinary diode; the bistable cryosar can be used as a memory element, multivibrator or flip-flop. Both types are very fast, the speed being limited by the turn-on time of 10-8 seconds or less. Since the active region of each cryosar is limited to the volume directly between its two contacts, a large number of independent cryosars may be placed on one wafer of germanium. Present results point to excellent reliability and reproducibility of the individual elements, making feasible the plating or evaporation of large arrays, possibly integrated into microprinted circuits. If one requires the cryosars alone, it should be possible to fit 200,000 into a cubic inch."
"Traveling wave type parametric amplifiers have been proposed which utilize transmission lines having reactance varied by a propagating wave. An analysis indicates that in systems with little or no dispersion, pumping will not result in exponential gain of an applied signal but in a conversion of energy to a multiplicity of cross-product frequencies. Two physical models of such wide-band systems are discussed and the special case of a zero-dispersion line is analyzed. The results indicate that although the total energy increases exponentially with distance, the wave becomes extremely rich in high frequencies. Although such systems would not be useful as amplifiers, use as frequency converters is suggested."
"The convolution theorem of Fourier analysis is a convenient tool for the derivation of a number of sampling theorems. This approach has been used by several authors to discuss first-order sampling of functions whose spectrum is limited to a region including the origin (\"low-pass\" functions). The present paper extends this technique to several other cases: second-order sampling of low-pass and band-pass functions, quadrature and Hilbert-transform sampling, sampling of periodic functions, and simultaneous sampling of a function and of one or more of its derivatives."
"If a random variable can be expressed as a weighted sum of other random variables having known distributions which can be approximated piecewise by, for example, polynomials, the distribution of the random variable can be obtained, relatively easily, by the use of the algorithm described in this paper."
"Used as a precision dual balanced mixer with circular waveguide input, the trimode turnstile waveguide junction is the key to a simple microwave polarimeter technique which permits instantaneous viewing of input polarization. Through linear mixing, the relative phase and amplitude of orthogonal components of an arbitrarily polarized input signal are preserved in the IF outputs of the two mixers. After amplification, these two IF signals are applied to orthogonal deflection planes of a cathode-ray tube to obtain an accurate, instantaneous \"picture\" of input polarization. Circular polarization generates a circle; elliptical polarization, an ellipse; and linear polarization, a line which indicates the plane of polarization. In certain applications, a variation of the method permits direct IF recording of the polarization information. Instrument errors and ways to minimize these are discussed. The polarimeter technique has application in microwave communication, radar, countermeasures, radio astronomy, antenna studies, and in laboratory measurements of polarization."
"A \"Graphical Method\" is used for analysis of the magnetization direction in terms of the magnetic energy, and for prediction of the hysteresis loop shape of ferromagnetic thin films. Three major magnetization conditions are discussed: 1) condition of magnetization with an 180° field applied: 2) condition of magnetization with a 90° field applied; and 3) condition of magnetization with both the 90° and the 180° field applied. Corresponding to these magnetization conditions, the hysteresis loop shapes are predicted and constructed showing close identity to those experimentally observed. These conditions are chosen because of their importance to computer applications. In the graphical method, the principle of superposition applies. Using this method, the magnetic energy relationships are readily established. The general expression for the total free energy equation is: Et = Ek+Eσ+EHΘ where Ek is the anisotropy energy, Eσ is the magnetostriction energy, and EH#x00398; is the magnetization energy. Since the method of construction of the total free energy curve as well as the hysteresis loop is simple and mechanical, a quite complex magnetization condition with a multiplicity of fields of different magnitudes and directions may be simplified and handled by graphical means with ease. Thus, the present scheme should be a practical and useful tool for analysis and engineering design of magnetic devices and systems utilizing ferromagnetic thin films."
"Under the usual simplifying conditions, the solution of the diffusion equations at low current densities in junction diodes and transistors is straightforward, if a one-dimensional structure is assumed. In reality, however, such structures are three dimensional, with rotational symmetry round an axis. No useful solutions of such diffusion equations are known for these cases. An analog computer was designed, allowing for diffusion, space, and surface recombination in cases of rotational symmetry. With this computer, saturation currents of junction diodes and ac admittances and transfer efficiencies of transistors were obtained and represented by curves. Actual junction diodes were manufactured in three batches according to specifications in concordance with the computer curves. Comparing measurements of saturation currents and admittances of the three batches of diodes with computer results, yielded fair coincidence. Some unexpected features of the computer curves are that the ratios of saturation currents obtained from the analog computer and from one-dimensional solutions exceed unity and may for instance be as high as 2. Similar figures hold for ac admittances. Some choices of transistor dimensions, leading to high transfer efficiencies, are suggested by the computer curves."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The following is a brief description of the basic principles and applications of the parametron, which is a digital computer element invented by the author in 1954. A parametron element is essentially a resonant circuit with a nonlinear reactive element which oscillates at one-half the driving frequency. The oscillation is used to represent a binary digit by the choice between two stationary phases π radians apart. The basic principle of logical circuits using the parametron is explained, and research on and applications of parametrons in Japan are described."
"In a digital information handling system, a binary one can be represented by an RF signal of a given phase, frequency, and amplitude, and a binary zero by RF of the same frequency and amplitude but with opposite phase. The use of subharmonic oscillators to switch, store, and amplify binary information coded in this manner is reviewed. A variable capacitance subharmonic oscillator having an output frequency of 2000 mc is described, and the use of this oscillator in circuits for amplifying, scaling, and performing logic functions is discussed. The circuits described operate at pulse repetition rates exceeding 100 mc. By raising the carrier frequency to X-band, it should be possible to increase the maximum rate to a few hundred megacycles."
"The \"radiansphere\" is the boundary between the near field and the far field of a small antenna. Its radius is one radianlength (λ/2π), at which distance the three terms of the field are equal in magnitude. A \"small\" antenna is one somewhat smaller than the radiansphere, but it has a \"sphere of influence\" occupying the radiansphere. The power that theoretically can be intercepted by a hypothetical isotropic antenna is that which flows through the radiansphere or its cross section, the \"radiancircle.\" From a small electric dipole, the far field of radiation is identified as a retarded magnetic field. Between two such dipoles, the far mutual impedance is that of mutual inductance, expressed in terms of space properties and the radiansphere. A small coil wound on a perfect spherical magnetic core is conceived as an ideal small antenna. Its radiation power factor is equal to the ratio of its volume over that of the radiansphere. A fraction of this ratio is obtainable in various forms of small antennas (C or L) occupying a comparable amount of space. A radiation shield, in the form of a conducting shell the size of the radiansphere, enables separate measurement of radiation resistance and loss resistance."
"The problem of voltage breakdown and its effects is discussed for a pulse antenna system. Voltage breakdown occurs at power levels when the pressure is reduced. The minimum breakdown potential occurs approximately at the pressure where the frequency of collision between electrons and gas atoms is equal to the frequency of the applied field. Experiments were made to determine the power levels required to produce breakdown and the effect of breakdown on the VSWR, pulse shape, radiation pattern, and radiated power. It is shown that all four of the quantities vary with pulse width and peak power."
"Several transmission line transformers are described which have bandwidth ratios as high as 20,000:1 in the frequency range of a few tens of kilocycles to over a thousand megacycles. Experimental data are presented on both transformers and hybrid circuits. Typical applications are: interstage transformers for broad-band amplifiers; baluns for driving balanced antennas and broad-band oscilloscopes; and hybrids for use in pulse reflectometers, balanced modulators, etc. These transformers can be made quite small. Excellent transformers have been made using ferrite toroids having an outside diameter of 0.080 inch."
"This paper examines the effect of dissipation on the response of multiple-coupled-resonator filters designed from lossless prototype low-pass filters. A simple approximate formula makes possible the computation of center-frequency loss in terms of bandwidth, unloaded Q of the resonators, and the parameters of the prototype filter. It is shown how the insertion loss elsewhere in the pass band and stop band may be computed from the prototype filter after modifying its circuit to take account of dissipation in the resonators. The computational techniques are used to compare several symmetrical designs with each other and with unsymmetrical designs having exact maximally-flat and equal-ripple response in the presence of dissipation. It is found that the symmetrical designs offer lower pass-band loss than the unsymmetrical designs. It is proven that a symmetrical filter based on an equal-element prototype has minimum-possible center-frequency loss for given unloaded Q and stop-band bandwidth, subject to assumptions that the loss per resonator is small and that the stop-band insertion loss may be determined accurately from the highest-power term of the insertion-loss polynomial."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"The infra-red (IR) pickup tube contains a sensitive target surface in the form of a thin layer of the photoconductor on a transparent window forming one end of the tube. The photoconductor emnployed must have a very high resistance when the material is in darkness. At the other end of the tube, there is an electron gun producing a low velocity beam of electrons. Electrons returning from the target enter a secondary emission multiplier which is coaxial with the gun, and the greatly amplified return current is supplied to the signal lead. The electron beam is focused by an axial magnetic field and deflected by a system of orthogonal deflecting coils producing fields at right angles to the motion of the beam. The operation of this type of pickup tube is discussed in detail."
"This bibliography on infrared techniques and applications is divided into a section entitled \"Textbooks\" and into several sections which are somewhat representative of the disciplines comprising infrared technology. The former contains references to many of the elementary physics and engineering texts which are particularly applicable to problems of radiative heat transfer, of optics, and of solid-state physics. The other sectionis generally include references to the monographs and articles which might be particularly useful in the specialized areas which are indicated. it is noted that the US Library of Congress, under the sponsorship of the US Office of Naval Research, has compiled several bibliographies on infrared. The work cited here includes unclassified literature up to, and including, 1953."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers. The Professional Group on Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics is an organization, within the framework of the IRE, of members with principal professional interest in Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics. All members of the IRE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive all Group publications upon payment of an annual assessment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A method is described by which radio compasses may be tested using small shielded enclosures (24 by 24 by 24 inches for many loop types) instead of screen rooms. This procedure results in economies of cost and space, as well as providing portability and rapid setup. Application of accepted methods of determining field strength for calibration purposes is discussed. Enclosure modifications for utilization of flush loops and the incorporation of rotation facilities for loop bearing-accuracy tests are also covered. Some approaches to enclosure design and construction are described, and examples of different types of existing and proposed units are shown. The possibility of using a small enclosure within an existing screen room as an aid in curing serious noise and interference problems, as an inexpensive substitute for renovating or replacing the screen room, or as a means for locating sources of noise or other disturbances, such as stray fields and RF leakage from signal generators, is also described."
"The integration of Tacan with very-high-frequency omnidirectional range (VOR) to provide one common air-navigation and air-traffic-control system requires, for full usefulness, a method of automatic air-surface communication. Such a method, called the Tacan data link, has been devised, and is being flight-tested. Using this data link, messages can be received and sent to each of 120 aircraft every 2.67 seconds. Such messages would consist of navigational, aircraft-status, and traffic-control information. The data link employs the Tacan Surface Beacon to carry both analog and digitallycoded messages, interpolating the coded pulse bursts, which last approximately 3 msec, 45 times every second. No additional transmitters or receivers are needed."
"A new device for measuring angular rate is analyzed and its mechanical and electrical design features presented. Analytical proofs of three important characteristics of the instrument are given. These characteristics are: 1) a sinusoidally modulated-carrier voltage with the envelope representing the magnitude of the useful output signal; 2) zero drift as well as zero offset effects separated from the true output in the form of a dc quantity, and 3) a reference signal through which both the magnitude and the orientation of the input angular-velocity component in the plane of the spin are determined."
"An equation is derived which can be used to compare the ability of a pulse radar to detect targets in rain and fog with its ability to detect similar targets in dry air. It is a common misconception that attenuation in the path between radar and target is the only consideration. However, clutter in the path between radar and target is the real concern. Clutter power backscattered from the storm in the immediate region of the target may be by far the most dominant degrading factor. The equation derived, and the resulting curves, take into consideration the combined effects of backscattering and attenuation and interpret the effects in terms of comparative dry-air and wet-air range capability. They enable 1) prediction of the relative performance of a given radar under various meteorological conditions, and 2) comparison of radars of different parameters operating under identical meteorological conditions."
"The PAR-scope, an oscilloscope display for pulsed radars, uses gated, averaged, amplitude information as one coordinate, and azimuth or elevation as the other coordinate; its display is a profile of average reflectivity. It is operated with a scanning antenna, permitting simultaneous operation with the RHI or PPI display. Such combinations provide means for rapid, three-dimensional quantitative mapping of reflectivity in the vicinity of the radar. Theoretical analysis of PAR-scope performance considers the response of the scanning system to spatial variations of average reflectivity and to the rapid fluctuations characteristic of weather echoes. It is shown that reflectivity distributions of major interest can be easily represented to an accuracy within 1 db of that implicit in the radar calibration."
"Three books are reviewed: \"The American Flight Navigator\" by John Dohm (Pan American Navigation Service, 352 pp., 1958); \"The Art of Navigation in England in Elizabethan and Early Stuart Times\" by David W. Waters (London: Hollis and Carter. 600 pp, 1958); and \"Nautilus 90 North\" by Cmdr. William R. Anderson, USN, with Clay Blair, Jr. (Cleveland: World Publishing Co., 251 pp., 1959). The first review is reprinted from J. Inst. Nav. (London), vol. II; October, 1958, by permission of The Institute of Navigation and the reviewer, J.E.D. Williams. The last review was reprinted from Navigation, vol. 6; Winter, 1959, by permission of The Institute of Navigation and the reviewer, John Dohm."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers. The Professional Group on Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics is an organization, within the framework of the IRE, of members with principal professional interest in Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics. All members of the IRE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive all Group publications upon payment of an annual assessment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In 1928 commercial aviation in the United States had developed to the point that the urgent need for additional facilities which would permit all-weather flight was evident to everyone. In anticipation of this need, the aircraft industry had undertaken the development of new and more precise aircraft instruments, including the sensitive altimeter, the artificial horizon, and the directional gyro. The aural radio range was beginning to be installed along the lighted airways and the National Bureau of Standards had completed initial development of the visual type range beacon. The aircraft radio group at the National Bureau of Standards, headed by Harry Diamond under the supervision of Dr. John H. Dellinger, undertook to coordinate these new facilities in an effort to solve the problem of flight during poor visibility. With General (then Lieutenant) James Doolittle as pilot, an installation at Mitchel Field in 1929 of the low-power visual range beacon and low-frequency marker beacon, together with the new flight instruments permitted Doolittle to effect hooded landings. It was evident that additional information was necessary. This was achieved by the development of the landing beam or glide path. Operating on a frequency of about 100 mc, it provided a signal which informed the pilot as to his location with reference to a predetermined descent path. Combined with the radio range beacon, instrument landings now became possible."
"The development of successful instrument approach and landing involved the solution of not only technical problems, but operational problems as well. A review of methods used to overcome operational problems is made, covering the period from the earliest successful instrument landing to the introduction of instrument approach into routine scheduled operation. Flight techniques are described, using early systems such as compass locator, constantintensity glide slope, and later, equisignal glide-slope facilities. Recognition of a requirement for visual aids to supplement electronic approach aids is outlined."
"Ground-Controlled Approach (GCA) was developed to meet military requirements for a \"universal\" blind-landing system, needing no additional airborne equipment or pilot indoctrination beyond short-range voice radio and basic instrument training. The talk-down principle, previously discredited in favor of beam-approach systems, was proved feasible when accurate information was available. The requirements of rapid radar scanning, at low angles to the horizon, with a high degree of accuracy at short range, were met by linear dipole arrays at 3-cm wavelength, with mechanical variation of waveguide width varying the angle of radiated power to the array. Half-power beamwidth for the elevation antenna was 0.1°; for the azimuth antenna, 0.8°. To translate range/angle data into a linear relationship of range vs deviation in feet from a selected approach path, a new type of indication was developed, i.e., Expanded Partial PPI Indicator (EPI). This permitted direct interpretation and immediate transmission of the data to the pilot by the controller. GCA's wartime service record, beginning late in 1944, proved its effectiveness under all conditions and led to further modifications and simplification for postwar commercial as well as military use."
"The development of all-weather landing is reviewed, particularly with regard to automatic control aspects. Flare-out schemes are described as well as experience with various systems. Problems of cross wind and techniques for eliminating their effects are included, along the \"weather cock\" technique. Crab-angle elimination and castering cross-wind landing gear methods are touched upon."
"A brief history and technical description of instrument landing system (ILS) and precision approach radar (PAR) is given. Improvements in ILS localizer and glide-slope designs are mentioned which reduce adverse site effects and hasten the day when fully automatic approaches may be authorized. Localizer improvements include a highly directional slotted-waveguide antenna. The waveguide system is essentially \"added to\" the conventional localizer and no change is required in the existing airborne receivers. This system is now operational (a version of the system is also in military use). For the glide slope, a runway-flush antenna has been developed and demonstrated. There are now 170 civil and about 50 military ILS installations in the United States with more under way. PAR (known in military service as GCA) has only limited civilian use but rather general use by the military. In this system, the controllers on the ground \"see\" the aircraft and its deviation from the desired approach. Corrections in heading and rate of descent are transmitted to the pilot in voice with advice also on distance to touchdown. Based on present trend and international acceptance of ILS, it is concluded that the number of ILS installations will be expanded to cover all aviation hubs and that automatic approaches will be authorized to further increase schedule efficiency and safety. PAR will probably not be further implemented for civil use."
"The present paper deals primarily with CAA contribution to the art of instrument landing systems and is confined to the localizer and glide-path portions of the system. It describes briefly the present standard 8-loop localizer used at most sites as well as some modifications made in the basic localizer concept in order to adapt it to locations where siting problems exist. It also describes the standard glide slope as well as a new type of glide slope for use at extremely poor locations."
"With no comparable change in landing areas, the landing speed of carrier aircraft has approximately doubled over the past 15 years. For this and other reasons the carrier landing procedure has become a very difficult task for which the aid of automatic electronic devices is sorely needed. Such systems would also greatly improve the continuity of flight operations through periods of poor visibility. A brief background of the problem is presented. The most recently developed fully automatic landing system consists of a three-coordinate tracking radar which provides closed-loop control through a ground-based computer, a ground-to-air data link and an autopilot in the aircraft. Recent successful sea trials indicate that the characteristics of this system are sufficiently accurate to provide a practical solution for the carrier landing problem."
"The problems of generation of an adequate glideslope signal on a practical airport site are examined, with particular attention to the path-shape degradation introduced by inadequate smooth surface in the primary reflecting area, and hills and similar mirror obstructions under the approach line. Quality factors are derived to establish comparison standards to evaluate the relative performance to be expected in application of various of the available arrays to any particular site. Two antenna arrays are described, which have been found in an extensive program of flight testing to provide substantial improvement in certain of these defective sites."
"An all-weather instrument landing system is urgently required by both civil and military users of the airspace. To this end the Government has pursued several developmental approaches which have contributed significantly to our knowledge and understanding of what steps must now be taken. This article describes much of what has been learned from previous efforts and describes the approach presently being taken by the Federal Aviation Agency to improve the present system, to achieve an interim landing system capability, and to provide a future system that will serve all users of the airspace."
"Current systems of instrument approach guidance, even with recent and forthcoming improvements, are shown to be inadequate for future operational needs. The potential weaknesses of current techniques include restrictions on flight-control maneuverability, limited landing rates, special terrain and siting requirements, and deterioration of service in the critical low-altitude region near touchdown. A broad look at future requirements, especially those posed by jet operations, leads to a specific set of desirable system characteristics. An approach system that is suitable to replace the interim improvements now being implemented must provide a wide enough selection of flight paths to allow versatility in flight-control techniques; it must guide aircraft to actual landings; it must be fail-safe; and it must impose minimum burdens in terms of airborne equipment and of real estate. A review of possible data sources and devices for use in an ultimate system reveals only a few promising contenders. A proposed multiangular system of minimum complexity is described."
"The concept, theory, implementation, and test results of the Bell Aircraft Automatic Landing System are presented. The system, which requires no additional airborne electronics equipment in land-based aircraft carrying an ILAS receiver and coupler, employs a precise ground-based radar and command computer. The major source of error of this closed-loop system is turbulence, while performance is limited chiefly by aircraft and autopilot properties. Flight-test results covering over 2000 automatic touchdowns and a variety of propeller and jet aircraft are presented for vertical and lateral degrees of freedom."
"The FAA is developing an advanced approach and landing system called REGAL. Ground-based scanning beams set up a broad reference grid in space from which aircraft may determine their position and optimumly determine the landing maneuver. A breadboard system was designed and tested in 1957 and 1958, and the FAA experimental elevation system will be tested in 1959. Theory of the radar ground-reflection problem is discussed and empirical data are presented to validate conclusions."
"A system is described whereby information gathered by a standard ground controlled approach (GCA) radar is utilized to compute automatically all GCA approach-control commands; these commands are then transmitted simultaneously to a maximum of six aircraft via the USAF frequency-division digital data link for automatic control of the aircraft approach. The system is designed to enable continuous human monitoring of the AGCA traffic-control operation and to include visual and aural warning signals in the monitoring system for added safety. Problems relating to optimum system response and gain parameters are discussed and control equations are defined. Results of extensive testing demonstrate a system capable of providing smooth control during the aircraft final approach under high-density traffic conditions. System accuracy is well within specified limits of ±50 feet in azimuth and ±30 feet in elevation at a minimum release point 100 feet above the runway."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers. The Professional Group on Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics is an organization, within the framework of the IRE, of members with principal professional interest in Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics. All members of the IRE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive all Group publications upon payment of an annual assessment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A vector equation, which is derived from first principles, describes the mechanization of inertial navigation systems for use anywhere in space. A specialized form of this equation applies directly to three-dimensional motion at any speed, any altitude, over an elliptical, rotating earth. The usefulness of this equation is illustrated by working out an example of a system design. Behavior of errors in inertial systems is also discussed."
"Three-dimensional generalized position-measurement systems are analyzed in this paper. In these systems, target position is obtained by trilateration using only range data collected by a group of v stations located in an arbitrary geometry. The method of maximum likelihood is used to obtain a joint estimator for the target coordinates which makes optimal use of the redundant data when the noise is Gaussian. A simple recursion formula for the estimator is obtained for this purpose and is shown to be convergent. This formula makes it possible to add data from a redundant number of stations at will and in proportion to their relative reliability. Further, it is shown that the recursion formula can be written entirely in terms of the changes in the successive iterative target position estimates. This technique offers a new means of obtaining tracking data on a moving target since it permits changes in target position to be computed directly as new data are obtained. The covariance matrix of the joint three-dimensional estimator is obtained in the case in which the measurement noise is small compared to the distances measured. The mean-square position error, namely, the trace of the covariance matrix, is shown to have a simple form for the general two-dimensional system in which the target and stations are coplanar. The geometry enters the variance expression only through the angles of cut θii, which are the angles between the lines joining the target and the stations."
"A novel, light, simple and inexpensive position indicator for crashed aircraft has been developed and subjected to severe tests. A special pulsed transmitter with trickle-charged batteries and an internal antenna is potted in shock-absorbing foam transparent to radio waves and placed inside a special aerofoil. This device, held on the tail of the aircraft, is released automatically upon detection of any abnormal structural disturbance. Then it tumbles away from the aircraft in time to clear the danger zone, slows down to a safe landing and transmits a distress signal from any position and under wide environmental conditions."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers. The Professional Group on Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics is an organization, within the framework of the IRE, of members with principal professional interest in Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics. All members of the IRE are eligible for membership in the Group and will receive all Group publications upon payment of an annual assessment."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper describes a 1000-mc dual antenna system which uses parallel-driven sector antennas. Methods for determining the performance in pattern interference regions are given together with applications to DME, Radar Safety Beacon and TACAN navigation systems. A flyable-model dual antenna system for Constellation and DC-6 type aircraft is described. Provision of an RF hybrid permits the simultaneous operation of two navigation equipments, such as DME and Radar Safety Beacon, from the same antenna system. A prototype of this antenna system on a DC-3 has provided improved performance for the TACAN navigation system. Flight tests with an experimental dual antenna system have shown improved performance for DME and Radar Safety Beacon systems. The results of flight tests show agreement with theoretically determined values of performance."
"A theoretical derivation of the indeterminacies of simultaneous position and velocity measurements of a reflector when using reflected electromagnetic waves is given. It is shown that the product of the indeterminacies is given by 1/(8π)/λsc where λs is the illuminating wavelength and c the speed of light. It is shown that the necessary consequence of nonsimultaneous measurements is an uncertainty as to whether the measurements are common to the same reflector. If this uncertainty is to be overcome, the reflectors must be spaced at a distance ½cΔT where ΔT is the time separation of the position and velocity measurement."
"Electronic navigation systems of all types are discussed, and classified as classical or self-contained. The error rates and accuracies of the various systems are discussed."
"Modern high-performance aircraft currently are pressing the limitations of the human operator. The increased speeds compress the allowable reaction time to such levels wherein logical decisions, and even conditioned reflex actions, may no longer be possible. The only way to overcome this human limitation of manned aircraft performance is through the incorporation of anticipatory displays; displays which offer a prediction of the various parameters so that the human operator is projected ahead of the system. An aircraft was analog computer simulated, data reduction was programmed and the same computer was used to allow biophysical measurement, which furnished correlative measure. The effectiveness of various piloting techniques, as well as prediction intervals, was explored. The results indicated a first approximation to the design of improved displays through the use of anticipatory information."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"A comprehensive listing of the authors, articles and departments included in 1959."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"An Analog function generator producing a biasing current for the permeability-tuned master oscillator of the zero gradient synchrotron is described. It produces the bias function with a precision of ± 0.02 per cent and is capable of delivering about 3 amperes of current into a predominantly resistive load of a quarter of an ohm. The input information to the function generator is obtained from proton accelerator parameters such as the magnetic guide field Bg and Bg and the guide magnet current Ig and İg. The total bias function is obtained as a result of adding outputs from the 1) Bg read-out, 2) hump generator, and 3) biased diode network. A specially developed electronic system and an analog-to-digital converter have been employed to make static and dynamic measurements with a view to determining the precision of the function generator."
"The instrument described is a servo which provides an output proportional to the logarithm of the input over 4 decades. Use of a special four-decade exponential feedback potentiometer makes the accuracy and repeatability much better than that obtainable with the usual logarithmic amplifiers. A period trip circuit is part of the instrument."
"This paper presents an analysis of a ferrite modulation system for a synchrocyclotron. It is shown that such a system is feasible at the present state of the art. The analysis is performed by numerical computation and is substantiated by a scaled experiment. Extensive data is obtained from the computation and is available in microfilm form. The computer program is listed."
"The transmission-line approach to the design of transformers yields a unit with no first-order rise-time limit since this approach uses distributed rather than lumped constants. The total time delay through the transmission-line-type transformer may exceed the rise time by a large factor, unlike conventional transformers. The extra winding length can be employed to improve the low-frequency response of the unit. Transformers can be made for impedance matching, pulse inverting, and dc isolation within the range of about 30 to 300 ohms with rise times of less than 0.5 × 10-9 seconds, and magnetizing time constants in excess of 5 × 10-7 seconds. Voltage-reflection coefflcients of 0.05 or less, and voltage-transmission efficiencies of 0.95 or better can be achieved."
"Neutrons in pulses produced at a 19 mc rate by the circulating beam of the 184-inch cyclotron striking an internal target have kinetic energies from 100 to 800 mev. Circulating-beam bunching limits the time duration of each neutron pulse. Reference signals are produced by a Cherenkov-radiator internal target or the radio-frequency voltage on the cyclotron dee. The chronotron coincidence circuits, capable of a resolving tine of less than 10-9 second, are spaced with increasing time intervals to reduce reflection reinforcement. Saturation of coincidence circuits minimizes the dependence on signal amplitude. The 125-Ω cable is matched at sampling points by a series inductance tapped by tube input capacity."
"The experimental technique used for internal beam ion phase measurements on the Birmingham cyclotron is described. Ion phase measurements were carried out by measuring the target current waveform of a screened two-electrode target with an equipment based on a sampling technique, having a resolution of 1.5 mμsec and a sensitivity of 5 μa/cm deflection. The target current waveform was displayed on a cathode-ray-tube screen against the sine of the cyclotron RF phase or in polar coordinates."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Nuclear reactor instrumentation and protection circuits which cover a range of six and one-half decades of reactor power are described. The circuits have been designed to provide maximum protection for the reactor while maintaining the ability to prevent unscheduled shutdowns. To accomplish these features, solid state components and fail-safe designs have been employed wherever feasible."
"Calculations have been performed to estimate the number of atoms displaced from normal sites by Compton Electrons from Co60 gamma rays and by slow and fast neutrons. The resultant change in carrier lifetimes and mobilities are used to predict the performance of a silicon solar cell under gamma and neutron irradiation. The effect of annealing of defects is considered, and from these computations an estimate is made to show the minimum flux necessary to produce noticeable damage. Data are presented showing the effects of Co60 gamma rays on 10 silicon solar cells and comparison is made with the theory."
"A log-period amplifier is described which is combined with power supply on a rack mounted chassis with a 7-inch panel. The circuits are transistorized except for electrometer tubes and log diodes. Input power is 25 watts. Noise reducing and calibrating circuits are built in as well as a catching circuit to keep the log diode in its logarithmic range."
"The basic investigation of transistor feedback amplifiers has proven mathematically simple and of great practical value. The behavior of single-stage common-emitter amplifiers is described and provides a building block with which cascaded feedback amplifiers can be analyzed and designed. The problem of designing these amplifiers is complex, and what are felt to be the most important phases of the problem are discussed."
"This paper describes an instrument for displaying intensity profiles of charged-particle beams that emerge from high-energy accelerators. The intensity vs position on a strip of 21 scintillation counters each 1 by 1 cm appears as a histogram on an oscilloscope. The display is accomplished by employing transistor circuits to amplify and integrate the outputs of the multiplier phototubes. The accumulated charge associated with each counter element is then read out in sequence by means of a blocking-oscillator commutator. The output signal is further amplified logarithmically for oscilloscope deflection."
"The Trinistor switch is a new semiconductor device which can be used to provide control of large amounts of load power. The characteristics of the Trinistor switch are similar to those of a thyratron because the Trinistor will either absorb a high voltage and prevent the flow of load current or break over to a low voltage and allow load current to flow. A third terminal can be used for the application of a control current which initiates this breakover action. The switching efficiency of the Trinistor is quite high because the device can block a voltage of several hundred volts at a few milliamperes leakage or conduct 50 amperes of current at a voltage drop of about 1.0 volt. A power control device such as the Trinistor switch can be used to control either ac or dc power with a minimum of associated circuitry. This device can be used in place of relays or other switching devices to provide contactless switching in circuits which have a minimum of weight and require a minimum of space."
"This article describes a simplified logarithmic integrator circuit as well as a synthesis technique for designing this circuit for a specific application. Comparisons are drawn between the circuit proposed herein and the Cooke-Yarborough log integrator circuit and Lichtenstein log integrator circuit."
"Describes the above-named upcoming conference event. May include topics to be covered or calls for papers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper reviews fundamentals covered in earlier papers and also includes interpretations and additions prepared after the 1958 Geneva International Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy. The U.S.A. appears to be the leader in controlled fusion research, for the present, but gas plasma containment and heating is far from satisfactory in any of the ingenious devices being worked upon. The electronic scientist, with his knowledge of wave interactions in plasmas, may be able to solve some unexplained energy losses in pinch experiments, and he may also help to develop new containment means, such as by strong microwave fields. Also of great importance is new understanding of rapid inductive heating processes needed to get a plasma to thermonuclear temperatures. Such researches, even if they do not lead quickly to practical controlled fusion, will undoubtedly have useful by-products in electronics, chemistry, plasma propulsion, and astrophysics."
"Recent developments in controlled fusion electronics observed at the Second U.N. Intemational Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Atomic Energy (Geneva, Switzerland, 1958) are discussed, and a comparison of the problems associated with the different approaches is given."
"A method for determining the spatial distribution in density of a plasma has been outlined in a previous paper. The method involves measuring the dispersive microwave propagation coefficients simultaneously at several frequencies and comparing the measured values with the values calculated for various distribution functions. The present paper demonstrates experimental verification of the method and describes the procedure used to determine the distribution function in a sample laboratory plasma experiment."
"Needs and applications for ultra-high-power switching are discussed, and various approaches are compared. Capacitor-bank experience and circuitry are covered, together with ignitron limitations. A test and cooperative development program has led to: (a) a 2 inch 10 kv ignitron for 30 kamp for 500 μsec; and (b) a 4 inch insulated-cathode ignitron for 10 kamp for 20 msec. Times for arc transfer to the wall are given for the 5 inch 5555 ignitron. A radical 19 inch flat ignitron has been built, and a 40 kv 200 kamp fast mechanical switch is being developed. Firing delay and jitter are given for the 2 inch ignitron."
"A general review is given of the experimental techniques used to measure physical properties of the high-temperature ionized gases encountered in controlled fusion research. Particular attention is given to the measurement of electron and ion kinetic temperatures by optical spectroscopy, electron density by microwave interferometry, and ionic composition by mass spectroscopy."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The results of reactor exposure on the characteristics of several types of boron-lined and BF3-filled proportional counters are presented, and the important design and application criteria that lead to Improved performance of counters after long reactor exposure are discussed."
"The integro-differential equation of reactor dynamics is studied and approximated. It is found that a reactor can be represented by means of a linear system and a nonlinear system in cascade. The transfer function of the linear system is the classical low-power transfer function. The nonlinear system is a nonlinear amplifier with an exponential characteristic. The describing function is computed in the case of a water-moderated reactor and it is shown that the gain near resonance increases with the magnitude of a reactivity sinusoidal oscillation."
"This paper describes an electrical readout decade counter employing the magnetron beam switching tube with transistor drive. Double-pulse resolution is 1 μsec. The unit will accept a variety of transistor types, and will tolerate supply voltage variations of ±20 per cent at ambient temperatures up to 60°C. A \"Pixie\" neon indicator is driven without the use of additional transistors. A readout circuit for printer or punched paper tape is presented."
"A system for simultaneously measuring and indicating each of several different radioisotopes in the stack effluent of an atomic energy facility is described. Analog computer techniques are employed for the solution of simultaneous equations and for the counting and scaling. Two types of presentations are included for the output. The total amounts of the radioisotopes emitted to the atmosphere are indicated on registers, and marks are recorded on a moving chart each time specific quantities are emitted. The emission quantity of each isotope is indicated by a register and by a single channel on the chart recorder."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"To supply our economy with the professional man-power it must have to meet the political, economic, and military challenges of the Soviet Union and to harvest for the benefit of all people the tremendous potential of the scientific age, America must provide an education that will permit all young people to realize their full potential for mental and intellectual development. These are challenges to man's capacity to know and to understand and to his capacity for disciplined and responsible intelligence. To meet these challenges, America must 1) devise a diverse, multilevel collegiate structure aimed at the development of individual talents and abilities rather than at the inculcation of a fixed body of knowledge; 2) conduct basic research into the educative process to find ways of improving our instruction while increasing its efficiency; 3) re-examine our methods of teaching to find means of emphasizing the development of creativity; 4) establish systematic methods of identifying our talented youth early in their school programs; 5) effect a change in general attitude toward scholarship in our country; and 6) find an equitable and satisfactory means of financing education in proportion to its value for America."
"Energy gap, minority carrier mobility, diffusion, and lifetime, and electron emission and space charge concepts present difficulties for many students. In the course described here, considerable emphasis is placed on student experiments to create sound understanding of these ideas."
"Each year America's industries and colleges join forces in an action aimed at converting the engineering student into an engineer employee. Principals in this operation are the company recruiter and the college placement director. Through the years each member of this unique alliance has come to learn the strength and weaknesses of his partner; each has profited and suffered through the other; each has developed his own ideas on how the other should operate. IRE TRANSACTIONS ON EDUCATION recently asked a number of executives on company recruiting staffs and college placement offices for their opinions on the current state of college recruiting, and for suggestions on improving the operation in future years. This two-part article presents excerpts from some of the replies received."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A brief historical review of education beyond the baccalaureate with particular emphasis on graduate study in electrical engineering is followed by an examination of present trends. Consideration is given to such topics as admission requirements, programs of study, graduation requirements, and residence requirements as they affect students. Staff factors such as qualifications, load, compensation, research, and advancement are considered. The problems that must be examined to assure a healthy future are listed to stimulate continuing discussion."
"The General Electric Company provides, within its Advanced Technical Programs for Engineers and Scientists, a logical sequence of courses for the development of these men. Within this framework of courses is the Honors Program for Graduate Study, which enables the motivated engineer or scientist to complete requirements for the Master's degree. The opportunity is also present to continue his further educational development through the Advanced Engineering Program, the Creative Engineering Program, or a Tuition Refund Program."
"In order to protect the integrity of graduate degrees, the basic objectives of graduate study must be examined and interpreted in the widest sense, taking into consideration changing social conditions. This paper traces the development of graduate engineering education from World War I, with its original attachment to the established pattern of graduate study in university science departments. It considers the place of research in graduate study and the problems arising from the need for research sponsorship today. Also, attention is focused upon the classification problems arising from the large number of parttime graduate students enrolled in engineering schools today."
"During recent years considerable attention has been given to an analysis of the changing patterns of graduate study in engineering. Reviews by the American Society for Engineering Education, the University of Chicago under a Carnegie Grant, and the Ford Foundation have been directed to the problem. A primary observation has indicated a trend towards greater diversity in patterns and a closer correlation with current requirements of research and development in industry and government. These patterns, including evening and various forms of off-campus training, are described and their effect on the nature of the graduate program is examined. The effect of direct and indirect industry support is analyzed, and the changing role of the faculty in cases where close coordination with industry exists is examined. Current trends are evidently enriching and strengthening the value of the graduate program, particularly through immediate contact by both student and faculty with research and development applications. There exist, however, a consequent overemphasis on immediate needs, and an ambiguity of long-range academic objectives. The critical financial needs of students, faculty, and engineering educational institutions are emphasized by the demands of new patterns and current high standards of academic endeavor."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Long Island Section of the IRE has attempted to attack the problem of cooperation with the secondary schools in its region in two ways. The first is to supply technical support to the high-school science teacher by direct contact with the student in areas where rapid scientific advances have made specialist knowledge a requirement. The second is towards the provision of a lecture series specifically for the teachers themselves. This paper describes the approach and the results of the first two years of operation of the program."
"With few exceptions, companies in the electronics industry sponsor advanced education. They derive many benefits from the sponsorship of these programs, such as keeping their engineering staffs up to date on new technical advances, increasing the staff prestige, and attracting outstanding engineering graduates. Industry and Education must provide better advanced education in industry if we are to meet the challenges of tomorrow. Certain problems now present will be overcome in the future with better coordination and planning."
"Some sort of reportorial process is necessary for evaluation of undergraduate laboratory work. A variety of methods currently employed are not entirely satisfactory. Ideally, such a process should accomplish its purpose with a minimum expenditure of time and effort and, wherever possible, enhance the educational efficiency of the laboratory. Under certain conditions, verbal communication may be employed to these ends. In addition to more efficient use of time, other results include: more accurate evaluation, increased effectiveness of laboratory problems as teaching devices, and useful training in the use of verbal communication. In other terms, the communication channel between instructor and student may be given greater capacity, less noise, and changed more nearly into a closed loop."
"The demand for greater numbers of technically-trained personnel, along with the scientific sophistication needed to meet tomorrow's need for new technologies, indicate that we must take a new look at our present criteria for the selection of engineers for employment. Criteria must be more basic than the mere evaluation of personality, grades and interests. This fact suggests the necessity to redefine the present industrial concept of engineering."
"Ability, motivation, work challenges, and environment-these things set the pattern for a successful engineering career. One company, through a personal approach, is endeavoring to develop a better understanding of these factors in order to assist its young engineers in fulfilling their true potential. It is expected that this \"Personal Follow\" program will result, ultimately, in more effective utilization of engineering personnel, furtherance of professional growth and development, and greater technical contributions from these young members of the profession."
"The purpose of this paper is to state what the author believes is a good way to develop the powers of understanding of talented college science students. After making a careful and somewhat novel distinction between knowledge and understanding, the paper closely defines the main problem in terms of the new interpretation of \"understanding.\" A short discussion follows which concludes that what is needed is more and better schooling in the central ideas of mathematics. At this point, the tenor of the paper is changed and a semipopular discussion is given on the fundamental type of mathematics the author has in mind. Finally, a proposal is made which is general enough to be adapted to a wide variety of situations."
"A number of internal and external pressures bear down on engineering colleges today. These include the shortage of experienced manpower, the rapid rate of scientific discoveries requiring absorption in curricula, the increasing college population, competition by industry for faculty members, and the need for additional income for plant expansion and faculty salaries. Within the body of engineering schools, one faction presses for the scientific reorientation of curricula while another holds to the professional art of design as the principle requirement in engineering colleges. Despite the traditional assumption that education is distinguished by large moments of inertia and that the time scale is measured in terms of generations, we lack sufficient time in a world of latent chaos. Positive and exciting internal forces must be injected into our dynamic system."
"This study tests several hypotheses concerning the effects that family structure has on an individual's personality development and its influence on his success in a science or engineering curriculum. One of the principal ideas tested is that success in college in science or engineering requires that the student develop strong feelings of independence and consequently be free from over-concern with interpersonal relations. Data were gathered on sixty undergraduates at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Two groups of thirty students each were selected: one a \"successful\" group and the other an \"unsuccessful\" group. Success and lack of success were defined in terms of academic performance. In general, the successful students come from homes in which the power structure and the roles of the parents are more clearly defined, thus allowing these boys to have a stronger identification with their fathers. The successful students are also found to be less concerned with interpersonal relations. The low achievers showed a stronger preference to work with people than did the high achievers. To explore further the origins of concern with interpersonal relations, two deviate subgroups, one from each sample, were studied in depth: the high achievers who preferred to work with people, and the low achievers who preferred not to work with people."
"Known learning principles cannot be efficiently applied in the traditional classroom environment. To achieve efficient learning it is necessary to remold the teaching-learning configuration to one in which the state of the art can be applied. Teaching machines provide such a configuration, and have proved to be dramatically effective in teaching a wide variety of subject matters. There is a need for more sophisticated machines with which to research possibilities of automating instruction in the maintenance of complex electronic systems. Engineers can contribute to teaching machine technology through programming of technical content, through design of appropriate hardware, and through support of teaching-automation research."
"The reduction in time between the discovery of new knowledge and its application to fill human needs has demanded rapid sophistication of engineering and science graduates employed by industry. In a very short time an integrated work-graduate study program provides these graduates with education in depth, an introduction to industry and a realistic base upon which to make a career decision. Industry's need is graduatestudy opportunity for its employees; its contribution is the integrated work-graduate study program."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The engineering experiment described here was spearheaded by a group of IRE Members who were convinced that the attitude of their communities on matters of science education could be influenced. In this project, ten high schools and over 40 industrial and scientific organizations joined in a series of supervised field trips by 400 selected high-school students. The program culminated in a three-day industrial exhibit which was viewed by approximately 25,000 visitors of all ages. Details on how this was organized as a community project are given."
"To facilitate the adoption of a common core curriculum in the Schools of Engineering and of Mining at the University of Arizona, the general physics course for engineers has been dropped. The physical foundation for engineering is taught in a new series of courses in the Civil, Mechanical, Electrical Engineering, and Physics Departments as part of the common core. The Physics Department teaches atomic, molecular, nuclear, and solid-state physics in a seven-unit junior-level course. There are grounds for a re-examination of the role of physics in engineering education and perhaps for extensive changes. It is suggested, however, that the role is, and should remain, vital, in the interests of science, of engineering, and of education."
"Some of the problems, methods, and philosophies of teaching laboratory are reviewed. Laboratory furnishes one channel by which knowledge can be acquired, supplements other teaching methods, and is particularly useful where mathematical descriptions are imperfect. In addition, laboratory deals with precision measurement, data recording, development of mechanical aptitude, and learning of specific techniques. Coordination of laboratory with other work usually follows one of two conflicting principles. A laboratory course may be conducted in a rigid manner or in a highly individualistic, flexible way. Each has its advantages. Laboratory provides good practice for report writing. By requiring at least one formal paper per student on laboratory work performed, a more realistic introduction to report writing is secured than in any other course work."
"As a part of the expanding honors group program for superior students, a course in Engineering Analysis using the assistance of engineers from cooperating industry has been evolved. The selection of students, the orientation part of the course, the selection of problems from industry, and a discussion of the results are presented."
"Objectionable examples of time-varying electromagnetic fields occurring in elementary textbooks are pointed out and the difficulties arising in connection with them are discussed. The interdependence of spatial and time variations of the electromagnetic fields is recalled. As an illustration, two simple examples are given to show how the variation of fields with time is automatically determined by the wave equation and initial spatial distribution. It is suggested that only fields which satisfy the wave equation be used in textbooks."
"This paper shows how, in the interest of emphasizing the systems concept, rotating machines have been integrated into a systems laboratory. Small machines provide the mechanical flexibility necessary in the emphasis of the systems concept, yet essential machine characteristics are retained. The paper also demonstrates how machine characteristics are interpreted to provide information for the analysis for an electromechanical system which includes the machine as a component."
"A general revision of the undergraduate curriculum in electrical engineering at Case Institute of Technology served as the stimulus and foundation for an updating of the course content in the area previously occupied by rotating machinery. The series of three courses which resulted has now been tested in the classroom for appropriateness, unity, depth of coverage possible, and palatability to the student. This paper reports the content and achievements of this initial trial. Results of the past year indicate that the material presented is pedagogically sound and that the program is realistic for the undergraduate student."
"The recent developments in this area in terms of curricular changes in the Electrical Engineering program have been described and evaluated. A previous required course, which covered electric machinery in some detail, has been replaced by a more general course which studies the principles of electromechanical energy conversion and the control of the flow of electrical energy by both static and motional devices. In addition, a new experimental two-semester course has been developed which integrates the study of energy conversion and control devices into a study of systems and the role of these devices in meeting system specifications."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"It is suggested that the IRE Transactions on Engineering Writing and Speech (EWS) become the primary media for helping the EWS society's engineering members directly in improving the accurate transmission of their ideas. The symposia, on the other hand, should be aimed at exchanging ideas with others in the engineering publications field. The author feels the Professional Group on EWS (PGEWS)society should encourage local meetings at the Section level. The society should further establish liaison with the Professional Group on Education and with the Professional Group on Engineering Management to study our common problems."
"An analogy to the energy band structure in semiconductors is given. An information gap corresponds to the \"forbidden gap\" in semiconductor theory and an information gap corresponds to the \"trapping states\" of impurity atoms. Illustrative examples of gaps in manuscripts are poor reader orientation, lack of proper information in illustrations, and inadequate conclusions. Examples of traps are semantic confusions, superfluous illustrations which obscure the issues, and critical points of the paper which are \"buried\" in the manuscript."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"This paper is concerned with the co-ordination and the maintenance of protective relays, as found in the widely dispersed industrial plants of one large chemical corporation. Co-ordination and relay maintenance conducted by engineers from a single central agency has proved technically and economically justified. While problems involving co-ordination and shortcircuit studies are discussed in this paper, they serve only to illustrate the effectiveness of a centralized operation. (Treatises on these subjects, which have proved to be useful, are listed as references 1-11.) The related problems of voltage dips during faults, short-circuit current-carrying capacity of conductors, momentary duty of devices, and interrupting capacity of fuses and breakers are considered as a part of the co-ordination problem. This paper further discusses the differences in emphasis placed on some problems by the utility and the industrial plant."
"Digital computers have revolutionized electric machine design procedures for transformers and induction motors, yet little has been written on the application of digital computers to synchronous machine design. This paper converts one synchronous machine designer's method into a computer program, showing the steps and logic involved. The design method chosen, while admittedly not the latest nor considered the best, is not proprietary but the procedure developed does result in a complete machine design. The heart of a digital computer calculation is the flow chart giving the detail of the calculations to be performed and the logic steps involved. A flow chart resulting in a workable digital computer program is developed in as much detail as possible. Finally comments are made upon implementing the flow chart on a large digital computer."
"1. Special considerations must be given to providing dependable power to certain vital loads associated with the primary reactor system. 2. At the time of planning the electrical system to meet the requirements of the vital reactor loads, it is proper to review the special requirements of excitation systems and emergency loads of the conventional portion of the plant and to co-ordinate the planning and consolidate the systems in so far as it is practicable and advantageous. 3. The proposed scheme, using an auxiliary main-shaft-driven alternator, achieves a multiplicity of benefits at nominal cost. This plan provides a reliable power source for reactor control and generator excitation. It provides isolation of vital equipment from system disturbances and the maximum amount of economic inertial energy obtainable for shutdown power."
"A digital computer program has been developed for the purpose of checking the adequacy of generator and substation bus designs in withstanding mechanical stresses due to short circuits. Experience with the program to date shows that the computer carries out the required calculations in about 1/100 of the time needed by a trained engineer and provides a reduction in calculating cost of four to one. It is expected that the computer program will contribute to better engineered and more economical station design by making comprehensive bus stress analyses easier and less time consuming."
"Rotating machines supplied directly from utility distribution systems are subjected to various overvoltages. Depending on the power system in question, these overvoltages may or may not be hazardous to machine insulation. The magnitude of the overvoltages, whether of internal or external origin, can be limited by the protective devices commonly used for machine protection. An operator must satisfy himself, however, that the insulation in question has sufficient strength to be protected by these devices. This determination of insulation strength is readily accomplished by means of nondestructive direct high-voltage tests. How these tests are made has been discussed in considerable detail for the bene fit of those contemplating the incorporation of such tests in a preventive maintenance program."
"This is a progress report on research projects conducted in co-operation with the AIEE Rotating Machinery Insulation Subcommittee, the Canadian Electrical Association's Apparatus Section, and individual manufacturers and utilities. For the functional evaluation required by a utility, a voltage-endurance test was chosen as most indicative of the ionization resistance which is considered critical in short-bore water-wheel generators, and a test of endurance of the mechanical effects of thermal cycling was chosen as most applicable to the critical qualities of insulation for steamturbine generators and other long-bore machines. Test equipments of moderate size and cost have been developed for voltage and mechanical endurance. Emphasis has been laid on close control of aging influences; variation of voltage test \"lives\" of similar samples has been reduced to within a ratio of three to one. The voltage-endurance equipment is finding further use in studies of effects upon insulation life of various dry-out, overvoltage testing, and operating practices. The mechanical-endurance tester is being used in a study of the optimum clearances between coil side and slot for various insulations."
"Grounding of the pipe is necessary to assure a low-impedance path for line-to-ground faults and to reduce voltages on the pipe caused by induction from overhead lines, switching surges, and lightning. The requirements for grounding are basic and should not be compromised by the cathodic protection scheme. Cathodic protection methods now in use appear to meet the twofold requirements of grounding and corrosion protection. Experience will provide the test of the adequacy of the various methods. In this paper it has been possible to discuss only briefly the grounding and cathodic protection methods. However, results of the discussion suggest that new and better methods of cathodic protection may be conceived. For greatest usefulness these methods should meet the following criteria: 1. Simplicity. 2. Provision for fault current continuity. 3. Flexibility of direct voltage adjustment. 4. Ease of inspection and maintenance. 5. No interference with fault locating methods. 6. No corrosion interference effects on other structures."
"This paper investigates the application of symmetrical component analysis to the problem of predicting the characteristics of the wound-rotor induction motor when used with a speed-control scheme in which rotor resistors are commutated one at a time. General equations are developed for determining performance with the foregoing mode of operation and also for more extreme cases of rotor unbalance which results in the Görges phenomenon. Specialized equivalent circuits are presented as a means toward simplifying calculations and physically interpreting the phenomena associated with rotor unbalance. These circuits are shown to be valid for any case of symmetrical rotor unbalance. The assumption that rotor and stator resistances remain constant is shown to lead to large errors in computed speed-torque curves. It is also shown that these errors can be reduced considerably if a suitable linear approximation of the resistance-versus-frequency relationship is used not only with respect to the rotorfrequency variation but also with respect to the variation in the subsynchronous frequency component of stator current. Extensive comparisons of computed results with experimental results are presented in order to illustrate the range of applicability of the symmetrical component analysis when the foregoing approximation is used."
"1. The development of a new philosophy of transformer design is a logical extension of the use of computers to determine optimum designs. The data obtained from studies made with the computer can be used as a basis to modify or refine presently accepted design formulas or concepts, or to establish new approaches to the designer's problems. 2. The program provides the optimum design. 3. The design engineer is supplied quickly with the best possible design on which to base the final design. 4. The program can and will be extended to compute final designs ready for production. 5. The computer can insure a mathematically perfect and consistent line of standard transformers. 6. Through computer use, sales engineers can be quickly supplied with quotation information. 7. With the computer, theoretical studies can be made concerning the influence on design and cost varying losses, impedances audio noise levels, materials, and prices."
"As useful information for the proper operation of secondary network systems, the Limiter Task Group has prepared the information given in the Appendix. The temperature classification test procedure (current-loading test) provides the means for classifying a combination of cable insulation and sheath material as to its \"damage temperature\" for operation with limiters. Numerous insulation and sheath combinations have been classified by this procedure and the standard classes L260 and L220 have been adopted for those combinations of insulation and sheath whose damage temperatures are at least 260 C and 220 C respectively. Included in the L260 class are the mineral-base and GR-S rubber insulations of the RH-RW type with neoprene sheath and in the L220 class are the oil-base and butylrubber ozone-resistant insulation with neoprene sheath. A simple oven test has been devised for preliminary testing and initial comparisons, before final classification by the current-loading test. Insulation-damage curves for the operation of cable in duct, have been adopted for 4/ 0 through 1,000-MCM cable of the L260 class, and tentatively adopted for 4/0 cable of the L220 class. For proper co-ordination with the L260 class of cable, the time-current characteristics of the present limiters have been adopted as standard for the L260 class of limiters. For the L220 class, the time-current curve for the 4/0 L220 limiter, has been tentatively adopted. The limiter has been found to be very effective in preventing smoke, fire, explosion, and the spread of damage that might result from roasting of cable insulation."
"The total stray-load loss of a polyphase induction machine of the squirrel-cage type is given by the formula: WL = WC + WE + WSL1 + WSL2 + WZ + WB + WK (13) where the several items, except Wc, are given by equations 1, 7, 6, 9, 10, and 12. The sum of WE and Wc can be determined separately from the other losses by measuring the input to the stator when balanced polyphase currents are flowing, with the rotor removed, and subtracting from this the I2R losses calculated on the basis of the d-c resistance of the winding at the test temperature, as required in the Morgan method of load-loss measurement. However, the end loss will differ somewhat from that under load, because the rotor end winding currents are not present. The total loss can be measured by the dynamometer method, either as a motor alone, or by the differential dynamometer method as the average of a motor and a generator, or by the pump-back method or the Morgan method, as outlined in a companion paper. 1 From a theoretical point of veiw, all these methods should give equivalent results, except that the Morgan method would be expected to give a stray loss slightly lower than the true value when the rotor has closed slots."
"In Part I of this paper a review is presented of the present status of extrahigh-voltage (EHV) power transmission (275 kv and higher) in this country and abroad. A forecast is made of the future requirements and developments of EHV transmission in the United States for the next 20 years, to 1977. It is concluded that: 1. there will be continued and rapid expansion of EHV systems at the highest voltage presently used, 345 kv; 2. that a higher voltage of the order of 460 kv will be introduced probably about 1962 in this country, and 3. a still higher voltage of the order of 650 kv may possibly be introduced about 1975. In Part II the problems are reviewed which must be solved by the utilities and manufacturers in this country in order to transmit power at these higher voltages reliably and economically. Areas of technical work are identified and the problems of EHIV technology are classified accordingly. The means which are available for the solution of these problems are then reviewed: analytical work, laboratory investigations, experimental lines, prototype EHV systems, and, of course, tests on the actual systems. It is concluded that all these means are necessary to obtain a proved solution. There is no doubt that the American electrical industry will continue to meet successfully the challenges presented by the ever-increasing requirements for electric power at a reasonable cost."
"A rigid method of estimation of the subtransient reactances for the direct and quadrature axes of synchronous machines is presented in this paper. The field and damper winding mmf (magneto-motive forces) are evaluated from the field forms and the rotor circuit leakage permeances for the two axes. Equations for the subtransient reactances in the most general form are derived in Appendix III."
"In this paper a new type of a-c motor, using d-c excitation to the stator and 2-phase a-c variable voltage to the armature through synchronously revolving brushes, is described. The new machine has smoothly adjustable speed characteristics of a d-c motor and power-factor (pf) control characteristics of a synchronous motor. The motor can also be used in single-phase systems. Again, it is possible to operate the machine with series-and compound-connected excitation in addition to using it as an autosynchronized converter, if additional stationary brushes are provided."
"It is a common experience that in the brush-collector contact under normal circumstances the contact voltage U = Umin is of the order of 1 volt. In this paper the proof is given that this property is correlated with the strongly resistive collector films through which conductive spots (a-spots) have to be initiated by a kind of electrical breakdown, called fritting. The correlation between Umin and the fritting voltage, Uf, is established as follows. Clean contacts, carbon versus carbon, are characterized by a contact resistance, R, which is given by the load, P, but is independent of the current, I, provided they are not essentially heated by the current. However, in the event of a highly resistive film in the contact a certain voltage is required to electrically break down the film whereby a-spots are generated. It is characteristic of this phenomenon that the a-spots are smaller than the load-bearing area, assuming such sizes that R becomes dependent on I. Clear evidence is given by (RU) curves at various I and P for two kinds of resistive films, that at small I, U approaches Umin. Furthermore, it is proved that Umin is predetermined by Uf of the very film. At larger I, the voltage, ΔUw, adds to Uf in order to widen the a-spots, adapting them to I. It is shown that ΔUw is relatively small with the result that U(I) = Uf+ΔUw remains close to Uf, for a wide range of I and P."
"The outstanding features of this laboratory are the power and surge testing facilities. Power laboratory energy for testing is supplied at 138 kv from a high-capacity utility system. A main transformer designed for short-circuit testing duty provides test voltages ranging from 1.5 kv for 18 kv and currents up to 25,000 amperes rms. Use of additional transformers widens this range. Test initiation can be timed accurately for any desired point on the 60-cycle voltage wave. The power test bus is so arranged that connections can be extended to energize and test full-scale line construction on the unimproved acreage of the laboratory site. The surge laboratory is equipped with five surge generators capable of producing high-voltage surges up to 3,000,000 volts and high-current surges of over 100,000 amperes. The surge generators can be used individually or together for multiple surge phenomena. For combined power and surge testing of lightning protective equipment, surges of predetermined characteristics are applied to equipment energized from the power laboratory test bus. The mechanical laboratory includes universal testing machines equipped with load-deflection graphic recorders, and facilities for full-scale testing of line hardware and structures. Created for the development of electrical and mechanical products for both electric power utility and wire communication systems, the laboratory is an integrated operation, with research, development, building of prototypes, and testing, all at one location."
"This paper discusses staged fault tests carried out on a 230-kv circuit in order to assess the reliability of powerline carrier equipment for transferred-trip relaying protection of transmission lines. Arcing faults were applied to a line close to the carrier receiving terminal. It was found that carrier equipment will provide reliable tripping under these conditions at practical carrier power levels."
"Radio interference and corona loss studies on high-voltage transmission lines require a knowledge of voltage gradients which exist at the surface of conductors. This paper covers such calculations for extra-high-voltage (ehv) lines using 2-, 3-, and 4-conductor bundles. The results are presented in graphical form so that bundled conductor designs, for a specified voltage gradient at line voltages up to 500 kv, can easily be obtained."
"Potential transformers that have their primary windings connected in Y and grounded, on an otherwise ungrounded circuit, may oscillate with the distributed capacitance to ground of the circuit following a voltage disturbance. This oscillation, termed here as ferroresonance, may be of several frequencies and will persist if energy losses are not sufficiently high. The amount of losses required to damp out these oscillations is influenced to some extent by the ratio of the applied voltage to that at which the transformer saturates. One method to increase the energy losses and thus protect the transformer and circuit against the results of sustained oscillations is to load resistively the secondaries of the potential transformers either individually or by connecting the secondaries in delta with the loading resistor in one corner of the delta. The required broken-corner delta resistance for the more critical (one-half fundamental) frequency may be estimated from the empirical equation RB = 100La/N2 where RB = broken-corner delta resistance, ohms La = potential transformer primary inductance during saturation, millihenrys (inductance of primary viewed as separate coil in air) Another method using Fig. 14 has been given. Both methodsare predicated on the transformer being fluxed for line-to-line voltage. Maximum transformer primary currents during ferroresonance in the one-half fundamental frequency mode have been estimated with the use of Figs. 9 and 14 Comparison of required loading and maximum primary currents with the results of laboratory tests on two types of potential transformers has shown good agreement."
"The functions and operational association of the various components in the instrumentation system were illustrated by an example in which signals from selected pickups were used to activate predetermined sequences of programing and recording. The instrumentation system may be readily adapted to other schedules of data accumulation, however, since the transducers may be changed in type, -quantity, and location. In addition, any of the pickup signals may be linked to the detecting system, the cycles of dwell may be varied, and the arrangement of signals in the programing system may be altered."
"Part I discusses a line of outdoor air-blast circuit breakers which has been developed for ratings of 115 kv through 460 kv. The breakers are of modular, or building-block, design, which allows the user to stock fewer spare parts and substantially reduces the personnel training problem. The breakers are expected to reduce the outage time of high capacity circuits for maintenance and inspection. They are rated to handle the high recovery rates encountered during power faults on transmission lines of high capacity systems. Part II discusses the utilization of a new design of gas-insulated current transformer by the air-blast breakers. Design details facilitate obtaining satisfactory protective relaying with current transformers on only one side of the interrupter contacts with a resulting substantial reduction in cost."
"The basic equations for synthesizing a double-cage rotor slot have been derived and the procedure suitable for programming on a digital computer has been discussed. To summarize, the steps in the procedure are as follows: 1. Select a satisfactory single-cage design of the same horsepower rating and speed as the double-cage rating to be designed. 2. Establish the desired objectives for locked-rotor torque and breakdown torque. 3. Select a winding which will give 15% higher flux than the starting point singlecage motor and make a complete performance calculation on this design. 4. From the results of the single-cage calculation values for r1, x1, rm, xm, x34, and rer can be closely estimated. 5. Calculate the value of r4 required to give the desired full-load slip. 6. Calculate x4' using equations 1 and 6 and the breakdown torque objective. 7. Calculate r3 using equation 11 and the locked-rotor torque objective. 8. Design the double-cage slot to provide the desired values of r3, r4, and x4'. 9. Make a complete performance calculation on the resulting double-cage design. If the results are not sufficiently close to the desired objectives and if positive, real numbers were obtained in the solutions for x4' and r3 in steps 6 and 7, then a more accurate estimate of the 6 parameters r1, x1, rm, xm, x34, and rer is required. Use the newly calculated values of these in place of the ones estimated from the single-cage calculation and repeat steps 5 through 8."
"The type of breaker described in this paper combines many of the best features of other types of breakers and eliminates many of their disadvantages. An economical breaker has been designed based on the use of a building-block type of interrupter which lends itself to extension to a line of breakers. The mechanical interconnection of all contacts and the provision for through-type current transformers are both extremely desirable features which are generally obtained with dead-tank type breakers. The use of SF6 gas as an interrupting medium offers these distinct advantages: 1. Low breaker height and small floor area requirements permit installation in existing or conventional substation structures. 2. Demonstration of shock or noise during fault interruption is negligible. 3. Light weight keeps down the cost of installation. 4. Foundation cost is low because of light weight and negligible impact loading. 5. Maintenance cost is low and the time interval between inspection periods is longer. 6. Complete interrupter unit is readily and quickly removable for inspection or maintenance."
"The basic goal of our past studies and our future plans is to strive for a means for predicting the RI level of any proposed EHV transmission line by corona measurements of its components. Our general experimental program directed toward this end is outlined as follows: 1. Find a correlation between radio noise and pulses of known characteristics with simple corona sources. 2. Determine whether this relationship can be extended to conductors and insulators which are the primary sources of radio noise on transmission lines. 3. Determine whether this relationship can be extended to pulses which are applied to an actual line and the radio noise radiated from this line. 4. Determine the pulse generation characteristics of typical configurations and sizes of conductors. This would also include the effects of humidity, surface conditions, temperatures, aerosols, and other factors affecting pulse generation. 5. Determine the effective pulse generation of a section of a transmission line of varying lengths and the RI level derived thereof for various atmospheric conditions due to aging. The first three parts of this program have essentially been completed. The next two parts are presently being studied. It is hoped that at the completion of this program a comprehensive picture of the RI performance of transmission lines can be predicted."
"In the past, the problem of switching transients in polyphase induction motors has been studied in great detail by several investigators. There is, however, no published literature dealing with the analysis of the problem of transient conditions in single-phase induction motors of the split-phase variety with constant speed. In this paper, the method of symmetrical components of instantaneous potentials and currents has been applied to the analysis of transient conditions in a capacitor-start capacitor-run single-phase induction motor with constant speed, and with special reference to reclosing and plugging. Detailed computation has been carried out for the transient currents and torque produced when a capacitor motor running at full speed is suddenly taken off the lines, and then put back after an extremely brief interval. The problems of sudden short circuiting of stator terminals and plugging have also been analyzed. It has been found that if the motor is reclosed when the applied potential passes through its zero value there is a fundamental frequency slowly decaying torque superimposed on the average steady-state unidirectional torque. If, on the other hand, the motor is switched on to the supply when the applied potential passes through its maximum value, the developed electromagnetic torque settles down to its final value before the end of the third cycle of the applied a-c potential. In order to plug the motor satisfactorily it is absolutely necessary to first replace the running condenser by the starting condenser before the electric connections for one of the windings are interchanged."
"A practical means of estimating the fractional volume of gas space in insulation from high-voltage capacitance and dissipation factor measurements has been suggested in this paper. This method has been evaluated by tests on models and various high-voltage insulation specimens. An analysis has been derived relating the observed a-c capacitance and dissipation factor increase with high voltages to the individual electric discharges between the surfaces of gas spaces in insulation."
"Within the past few years the availability of digital computing equipment has provided the design engineer with a new and powerful tool for performing numerical calculations and logical decisions at high speed and low cost. Computer programs for product design may be divided into two characteristic types: performance programs for which the dimensions and other parameters are given as input, and synthesis programs for which the required performance specifications are given as input. Performance programs have been described in the literature for several kinds of power and industrial electric equipment. They are a useful and necessary prerequisite to design synthesis programs which appear to have found their first and most common application in power transformer design. In the opinion of the authors, an extension of the philosophy of design synthesis to the design of rotating machinery is perhaps more difficult, but still a practical venture. A list of programs in actual use for rotating machine design is presented. The features of one induction motor performance program are first described in some detail followed by a description of three programs for synchronous motor design. The combination of these three programs has many of the features of a complete synthesis program, but with sufficient compromise for practical operation on a medium-sized digital computer."
"This paper covers the results of a research project for locating faults on pipetype cables. Conventional locating methods were studied and were decided to be inadequate to meet many of the fault conditions which may occur on pipe-type cable. Ideas for new methods to supplement existing ones were developed. Tests were made by various means, attempting to approximate the behavior of a fault. Finally, in order to make tests under near actual operating conditions, a fault was built into each of two conductors of a newly constructed, 12-mile 138-kv oil-filled pipe-type cable line. Sufficient information was obtained to assure a quick, accurate location of any type of fault. Some additional developmental work may be required to explore the full potentialities of some of the new fault-locating methods."
"1. A 345-kv OCB rated 25,000, was tested extensively at the Philip Sporn Station of the AEP system for performance on both line-dropping and fault-interruption duty. 2. The full-scale tests demonstrated the adequacy of the breaker over an extremely wide range of fault conditions and for line-charging current-switching duty up to and beyond the present maximum lineswitching requirements of the AEP system at 345 kv. 3. The line-dropping tests were free of the high transient overvoltages which accompany severe restrikes. In 57 3 phase tests at currents up to 226 amperes, there were three single restrikes with maximum transient voltages lower than those accompanying normal fault interruptions. 4. Fault duty tests included singlephase as well as both grounded and ungrounded 3-phase faults, high-speed reclosing, and a 4-operation AEP reclosing duty cycle at fault duties between 1,160 and 13,380 mva. The tests confirmed the usefulness of field tests and inspired confidence in the results of laboratory tests previously reported.2 5. The field tests also demonstrated the more severe duty imposed on a circuit breaker by 3-phase ungrounded faults. Arcing times for 3-phase ungrounded faults were found to be approximately one half-cycle longer than for grounded faults because of the higher power-frequency recovery voltage across the first pole to clear. Because of the rarity of 3-phase ungrounded faults in service, it is the opinion of the authors that industry standards should recognize a longer applicable rated interrupting time for this type of fault for breakers intended for application on effectively grounded systems."
"It is shown that the standard vibration damper installation using two torsional dumbbell dampers per span provides more damping than necessary, and that one torsional dumbbell damper per span, for span lengths up to 1,700 feet, with substantially reduced weights for the larger conductors, provides adequate protection against fatigue failure arising from aeolian vibration. The conclusions are supported by experimental data and by inspections of lines. The results of tests using one damper per span are compared with performance data of typical armor reinforcing rods."
"Power fuses are being used in increasing numbers for the safe protection of power transformers and associated equipment. This increased usage can be attributed to the low installation cost, simplicity of maintenance, and generally reliable protection. Their use does require an understanding of fuse types, characteristics, application, and transformer short-circuit current. A major aspect of the application is the co-ordination of the power fuse with other significant protective devices in the entire protective scheme. This paper attempts to review concepts of the present state of the art of fuse application based on study of their performances over 30 years."
"Lightning arresters play an important role in the protection of power system insulation against damage by surge voltages. Many arresters which have been in service a considerable number of years are still expected to provide this protection even for insulation that may not possess the strength as specified for new apparatus. The results of various methods used in the past to check arrester condition in the field are often questionable. A novel field test method for lightning arresters has therefore been developed. Impulse sparkover and power frequency leakage tests in the field can be carried out, with portable test equipment, on line-type and station-type lightning arresters with single-unit ratings up to 37 kv. Design and operating principles of this equipment are described; the field test results indicate that with the new method it is possible reliably to detect arresters not performing according to requirements."
"The isolated phase generator bus which has become a standard method for connecting generators to transformers is undoubtedly the safest and most satisfactory method of making this connection that has been developed. There are, however, several problems that have arisen with the advent of high currents normal to the large generators now being installed. The series of tests herewith discussed covers certain phenomena of induced and magnetic heating that may be encountered with the use of these high amperage busses, and also discusses the problems of field pressurizing of bus systems."
"The factors involved in the design of an automatic dispatching system are discussed in detail in order to establish the background common to the dispatching operations of all-electric utility systems. It is the aim of this paper to review all the factors involved and to supply the systemplanning engineer with information to be used in arriving at an appropriate control for his specific system. An automatic dispatching system based on the principles outlined is shown in block diagram form and its operation is described. The description includes an account of dispatching procedures for an operation using the system shown in the block diagrams. A description of emergency measures and protective facilities is also included."
"For many years it has been common practice to include a delta-connected stabilizing winding in Y-Y-connected transformers and Y-connected autotransformers. This applies to 3-phase units of all types of core construction, as well as to 3-phase banks of single-phase units. The practice has been followed so closely for so many years that it is generally taken for granted that the stabilizing winding is a necessary part of such transformers. In many cases it is; but is it necessary or even desirable to include a stabilizing winding in all cases, regardless of system characteristics and conditions? It is the purpose of this paper to present a comprehensive examination of the elements which determine the answer or answers to this question, in the light of modern power system operating conditions and operating practice."
"Power transformers are designed to performance specifications which are becoming more exactingas the systems to which they are applied become more complex. In developing a philosophy to design power transformers to these specifications through the use of the digital computer, one is confronted with the development of a technique to accomplish these designs with the best utilization of material and at the same time maintain versatility in considering various performance guarantees. The purpose of this paper is to discuss the problems encountered, to outline an approach which has proved very successful, and in particular, to present an addition whereby the computer can be used to improve its own performance while keeping abreast of new developments both in performance and materials."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Design of a termination for 33-kv operation has been described. This includes a wrapping of insulation comprising orlon tape impregnated with an epoxy resin formulation that extends over a portion of the metallic cable sheath, the oiled-paper, insulation, and a portion of the high-voltage connector. The prepared cable end is installed in a porcelain pothead which is almost completely filled with cable oil. Passage of oil between the pothead and the cable is prevented by the resin insulation. Savings are effected over standard oilfilled pothead construction in that oil reservoirs are not required, nor is periodic inspection and maintenance of oil level. Previous semisolid filled terminations required construction and filling in the shop. Additional splices were then required in the field to connect the pothead to the cable. The present termination is made in the field making additional splicing unnecessary. Temperature-cycled overvoltage tests and impulse voltage tests support the expectation of long life and adequate impulse strength level. Other test results including breakdown voltage strength, dissipation factor, dielectric constant, resistance to moisture, and adherence to metals indicate that satisfactory performance may be expected. The use of epoxy-resin-impregnated orlon terminations is now standard practice in the Baltimore Gas and Electric Company's 33-kv transmission and distribution system. More than 70 of these terminations have been placed in service since June 1958."
"Design of a termination for 4-kv operation on PILC cable has been described. It is based on a hand applied insulation and weather seal of epoxy-resin-impregnated orlon tape which covers the cable end from the lead sheath to the high-voltage connector. Filler materials may be added to the basic resin. Savings have been effected through the elimination of the porcelain pothead or, alternatively, through the use of paperinsulated cable throughout rather than a length of rubber-insulated cable joined to the paper-insulated cable for the terminal section. The termination successfully passed the AIEE pothead design tests, and tests described herein have further shown the adequacy of the bond between the epoxy resin-orlon wrappings and copper and lead. Previous tests1 have demonstrated the resistance of the epoxy resin-orlon wrapping to moisture penetration. Service installations have already successfully withstood the extremes of summer and winter weather. Accelerated outdoor aging tests are in progress to provide additional data on the weathering ability of the terminations. The epoxy resin-orlon termination is now standard for use on PILC cable indoors in the Baltimore Gas and Electric Company's 4-kv system and is used at selected locations out of doors."
"This paper shows that there exists a simple relationship between the forced and free oscillations of coils and windings which are generally treated in the literature as two separate phenomena. As a consequence, a correlation also exists between certain natural frequencies of a coil or winding under different terminal conditions. Experimental measurements on air coils, iron-core coils, and transformer windings prove the correctness of the theory. The frequencies are determined analytically by energy methods."
"1. A test setup has been constructed for obtaining RI generation characteristics of conductors for extra-HV transmission lines. 2. Point protrusions lower the noise. starting voltage of energized conductors. With metal and wet dielectric points the reduction is larger for longer points. For dry dielectric points the reverse seems to be true. 3. Relatively long point protrusions on conductor surface may cause a sudden jump of RIV as the conductor voltage passes a critical voltage, which varies with the height of the point. 4. The height of a point protrusion determines the per-cent reduction of the noise-starting voltage regardless of the conductor diameters. 5. When a conductor with point protrusions is stressed at a given per cent of its ideal noise-starting voltage (i.e., smooth surface), a higher RIV will result for a larger ratio of the point height to the conductor diameter. 6. The coronaand RI-starting gradient for a given point imperfection on 1-, 2-, 3-and 4-conductor bundles is the same no matter where it is located, but the RI generated is not the same: it is lower for the points facing the center of the bundle. 7. The RI generated from a given point imperfection depends not only on the conductor surface gradient but also on the gradient distribution both radially outward from the surface and around the conductor. 8."
"This paper describes a system which, every 4 hours, automatically makes a trip-and-carrier test on phase comparison carrier current relays. It is intended to duplicate, as nearly as is practical, the trip-and-block test recommended by the relay manufacturer. The equipment is designed for installation on transmission lines between unattended stations. During the trip portions of the test the relay is blocked for approximately 1/2 second. However, if a fault should occur during this time, the protective relay will be restored to normal service in 10 cycles."
"Field tests indicate that very fast clearing of faults on 4-kv open-wire distribution circuits will materially reduce wire burndowns and consequently improve the service interruption record. Heretofore, the fastest air circuit breakers available for this service, exclusive of compressed-air breakers, have interrupting times of 3½ to 5½ cycles. A magnetic-type air breaker with 1½ to 2 cycles interrupting time is now available; see Fig. 1. These interrupting times approach those of line reclosers which have proved extremely satisfactory in preventing burndown of overhead distribution conductors."
"The Portland General Electric Company distribution system is protected with phase and ground relays set relatively fast and selective with all sectionalizing devices. Phase relays are set to trip at about 2.25 times the individual circuit ratings, disregarding actual loads. Maximum circuit loading is normally limited to 1.5 times circuit rating for 1/2-hour peaks. Higher loadings will probably be used in the future and phase relays will be desensitized to meet cold load requirements. The ground relays are set as sensitive as possible, yet must be selective with the largest sectionalizing devices. Operating experience in terms of service outages and the number of high resistance ground faults not detected appear to justify the general scheme of operation. In short, it is thought that the protective scheme must be chosen to support all other effort to serve customers. Engineering, construction, and service department efforts are directed toward the common goal of supplying continuous electric service to the greatest number of customers possible. The protective relay schemes must support this effort. The protection must be fast, to limit burndowns; and, selective to limit outages, and speed service restoration."
"The presently achieved and the forecasted growth in the utilization of electric power indicates higher transmission and distribution voltages. Operating voltages for bulk transmission as high as 500 kv are of interest. Distribution voltages have increased and will move further up into the range which has been used in the past for transmission. It is forecast that 69 kv surely will be, and that even 138 kv may be, in the distribution range. This situation dictates a new look at methods of distributing power, particularly by cables, since it is implied that more cables will be needed, particularly for aerial and direct burial use. Difficulties with rights-of-way and space requirements appear to require this. Impregnated-paper-insulated cables have been the major workhorses in the past and will continue to bear a large share of the burden in the solid and the various pressurized forms. However, there is no denying the advantages of a solid dielectric capable of operating in its service environments without recourse to an impervious sheath and/or pressure. Simplicity of design, installation, and operation is needed; and freedom from migration, void formation, and internal ionization phenomena is of paramount importance. Polyethylene possesses many of the properties desired for higb-voltage operation, and its use in the higher voltages is expanding. At present, 15-kv polyethylene cables are common and have a fine performance record."
"The wind-induced vibration of cables is the source of numerous fatigue failures in strands of electric transmissionline cables. At present, the emphasis in the field is directed at reducing or eliminating the amount of vibration by adding dampers and vibration absorbers rather than at reducing the induced stress in the cable by rational design of the suspension system. This paper is directed toward the evaluation of factors affecting the actual stresses or strains in a vibrating cable. The cable is considered to have both flexural rigidity and axial tension. Solutions for the bending stress have been derived for the dynamic case using the methods of standard beam theory. A static solution of the bending stresses is presented using the standard design criteria. The action of the suspension clamp, in the dynamic solution, is interpreted in terms of a factor ξ, which is introduced to represent how nearly the suspension clamp approaches the pinned suspension ξ = 1, rather than a rigid suspension ξ = 0. The pinned suspension would result in a point of zero reversed stress at the suspension clamp."
"1. It appears that regardless of the characteristics of an actual load, the dumping of appreciable overload on a generating station is likely to cause the frequency to drop too rapidly to permit manual switching to be effective, and automatic relays are necessary to prevent swamping of generators and to permit rapid restoration of even limited service. 2. Unnecessary line and generating station switching should be avoided. A combination of frequency and reverse power relays may be of assistance in reducing the probability of unnecessary switching, as the arrangement prevents breaker operation unless the load carried by the breaker is at least partially responsible for the underfrequency. 3. Selected loads may be dropped by frequency-sensitive relays. Loads that are likely to stall, causing damage to equipment such as ore crushers, rolling mills, etc., should be prevented from being recharged during the period of serious underfrequency. 4. An analysis is presented which permits consideration of both the normal and rotational power of both generators and loads. This may be useful in establishing settings for under frequency protection equipment."
"Rotational systems consisting of impellers, motors, and couplings possess a number of natural frequencies and are, if the damping is small, very sensitive to harmonic torque components of even small magnitudes, should the frequencies of these components coincide with any of the natural frequencies. Certain types of electric motors will deliver harmonic torque components having frequencies that vary with the motor speed. During acceleration periods these torques will excite the oscillatory system, usually on several of its natural frequencies, and amplitude build-up with accompanying dangerous stresses may occur. This paper contains an analysis of this general problem and proposes an approximate semigraphical solution of the differential equation pertaining thereto."
"The numerical results presented in this paper, in Tables I through VI, apply only to the PSEG system. First presented is a summary of the forced-outage data collected; see Table I. Table II compares the actual distribution of up-period duration with an exponential distribution. Then, Tables III and IV give estimates of average up-period duration and the probabilities of an outage being a halfoutage for the four classes of units. Table V shows the component failure rates for mature units. Table VI gives the details of the durations and postponements of down periods. Comments on the numerical results are given in the section \"Results\" at the beginning of the paper."
"1. Outstanding characteristics of vaporization cooling is its remarkable effectiveness. By vaporization and condensation of a fluorocarbon coolant, and for a given temperature difference, rates of heat transfer several times as great as in oil by free convection may be obtained. 2. Vaporization cooling of power transformers is made possible by the advent of inert fluorocarbon coolants, characterized by their chemical inertness, thermal stability, nontoxicity, and a high dielectric strength of their vapors. 3. Operating thermal characteristics of vaporization-cooled transformers present many unusual features. They depend greatly upon design, and particularly on the presence or absence of a noncondensable gas in the transformer tank. The paper presents a study of these characteristics made on a large commercial unit."
"This test equipment and procedure provided an excellent means of comparing the efficiencies of several commercially available connectors when subjected to heavy current loading cycles and a severe marine atmosphere. Failures produced during the course of these tests appear similar in every respect to failures which we have observed at various field test stations and those referred to us by customers. In some cases, the build-up of corrosion products or salt deposits has been greater than observed at field sites but the conditions relating to failure have been identical. We believe that this type of testing will provide much valuable information and that the performance of a connector in this test more closely approaches actual operating conditions than any other laboratory tests used to date. This entire test program is completely flexible and can very easily be adapted to other natural or accelerated environments. It is our feeling that any connector or fitting which will produce satisfactory results in these tests will also operate as well or better in most other natural environments. These tests showed that platings on a connector only add more metals to the unit and increase the damaging effects of galvanic corrosion. This applies to platings on aluminum-body as well as copperalloy connectors. In general, we can show that the stability of a certain connector in our accelerated tests will also indicate its reliability when used in actual field conditions."
"This paper presents some of the control characteristics of generating plants as determined by field measurement. Tests on generating units in service have determined that governor dead band varies widely between governors and between load points for some governors. Large new steam turbines have been found with governors having dead bands so large that the governor seldom caused the unit to help correct system frequency. The backlash in governor control linkages on some units was found to cause long time lags in control when initiated by automatic dispatching systems. Time delays in combustion control action and boiler thermal time lags were measured. These caused generation to continue to change for periods of time following a change in turbine control valve position. Frequency-response tests of generation controls of an over-all generating plant were conducted. Time delays in generation change measured after step changes in controls help explain the phase and magnitude changes measured during frequency-response tests. This paper shows that control characteristics can be measured with today's manually controlled generating plants. Some of the data obtained may be useful in designing improved controls for tomorrow's computer-operated plants."
"This paper contains data on eight important aluminum conductors which are being used, or being considered for use, on high-voltage (HV) and extra-high-voltage (EHV) lines. The first part deals with resistance, temperature, and current characteristics. Useful equations and curves are presented describing these characteristics for a broad range of environmental conditions. The second part contains data relating to the economics of conductor selection in single and twin bundle configurations."
"Ultrasonic tests made following the discovery of cracks in the hub of a caststeel rotor spider of a 15,000-kva waterwheel generator indicated the advisability of replacing the spider with one of modern fabricated steel design. Economic considerations favored making the replacement without disturbing the field poles and laminated rim. A special jacking rig was devised with which the spider was pressed out of the rim in approximately 90 working hours. Removal of the old spider and installation of the new spider was accomplished in 34 shifts and required 2,570 man-hours. Estimated savings of 48.5% in time and 43.6% in labor were made by performing the work in this manner rather than by the conventional method of removing field poles, unstacking the laminated rim from the old spider, restacking the laminations on the new spider, and reinstalling the field poles."
"Although for many years many high-capacity outdoor oeb's (oil circuit breakers) have given satisfactory service with only field tests to establish their interrupting rating, it is acknowledged that supplementiing laboratory tests are required to assess fully their ultimate capabilities. Laboratory tests can be made of any severity and the limitations of a given breaker design can be observed. This paper covers a test program utilizing the maximuin short-circuit output of one of the largest testing laboratories, to observe the performance of high-capacity interrupters for ocb's, with voltage ratings of 69, 115, 138, 161, and 230 kv. Previous field tests had given indications that the designs, in general, were satisfactory up to the limits tested. These additional tests were made for the purpose of finding out more about their interrtlpting characteristics and their ultimate limits. Two single-pole test units were used: one for the 69-kv tests, and one for the 115-to 230-kv tests. In recent years, there has been general agreement on the impracticability of separate interrupter designs for the many possible interrupting and voltage ratings. Therefore, in addition to the standardization of a small number of ratings by the industry, manufacturers have carried standardization a step further by utilizing fewer different interrupter designs. This point is applicable to the last-mentioned group of ratings where a single interrupter design was considered approxpriate for voltages of 115, 138, 161, and 230 kv."
"This paper describes a drive in which a wound-rotor induction motor is supplied through a static-magnetic power modulator. The drive provides accurate, continuously variable control of speed at any setting up to synchronous speed in either direction of rotation. Other features of the drive are its low-speed regulation, its provision for acceleration and braking at controlled torque, with nearly linear transient response, low cost, and high reliability."
"It can be concluded that the IEC Recommendation and the ASA Standard for valve-type lightning arresters contain essentially the same provisions. The IEC Recommendation, however, specifies maximum arrester protective levels and differs in other minor respects from the ASA Standard. Recognizing that the major issues have been resolved, and that the controversial provisions, in all probability, could also be resolved in future discussions, the US National Committee joined with 21 other national committees in voting unanimous approval of the valve arrester Recommendation. As a result, one more step has been taken toward the international standardization of all products offered in world trade."
"This paper describes a new method of making transmission loss formulas. A résumé of developments since 1942 is included. The new method is very simple, but for large systems it requires a large number of highly accurate power flow studies made on a digital computer. Tests of the method for different sizes and types of power systems are suggested for trial by those who may have access to large-scale computers at a cost low enough to justify research work."
"This paper presents design formulas for calculation of harmonic content in the output voltage of salient-pole a-c generators with both uniform and nonuniform air gaps, under balanced 3-phase loading. Coefficients to be used in the formulas are presented in curve form for harmonics up to and including the eleventh, maldng possible rapid determination of such harmonics. Part II of this paper will contain the derivation of the curves presented here and experimental verification of the formulas."
"In a unit-connected generator scheme where the transformer is protected by lightning arresters installed adjacent to its high voltage terminals, the maximum surge voltage that can appear at the highvoltage terminals is limited to the discharge voltage of the arresters given in Fig. 2. The surges can be transferred electrostatically and electromagnetically through the transformer winding to the generator terminals. The electrostatic transfer is governed by the capacitive network of the transformer windings; see Fig. 20. Formulas for an equivalent circuit are derived for simple computations of the effect of the terminal conditions. This component is of subtransient nature. For the two cases studied, the crest magnitude of the electrostatic component does not exceed 21 kv. This voltage decays rapidly and vanishes within 0.4 μsec. Its effect is negligible. The electromagnetic transfer is analyzed for the unit-connected scheme and formulas are derived for the transferred surge voltage at the generator terminals. Twelve cases most commonly met in practice were analyzed with and without terminal capacitance. The result is an envelope voltage of 10 kv per μsec linear front and 40-kv crest magnitude which is not exceeded in any of the investigated cases. The voltage distribution along the generator winding is analyzed by classical transmission line theory. An actual distribution computed for a 100-mva generator with the above envelope voltage at the terminals showed that no points within the winding attain a voltage higher than the terminal voltage of 40-kv crest."
"In Part I of this series on the impedances of polyphase rotating machines with a solid rotor, the operational impedances and direct-and quadrature-axis equivalent circuits were developed from electromagnetic field theory. The previous work has neglected the effects of curvature. It is shown in this paper that for most machines of conventional dimensions, the effects of curvature are relatively minor. This paper presents the results of an analysis of an electromagnetic model which includes curvature. Equations for operational and equivalent circuit impedances are presented and numerical data for both 2-and 4-pole machines are given for operating conditions in which the rotor-iron currents are sinusoidal."
"A method has been presented for the digital solution of a short-circuit tensor and its use for the calculation of currents in lines including those having mutuals. The short-circuit tensor can be easily modified for line additions, deletions, or line-open conditions, thus eliminating the necessity for lengthy calculations for each fault condition. Networks may be divided into parts and the short-circuit tensor for each section solved for exactly, without deriving any approximate equivalents. Short-circuit tensors can be derived for each of the positive-and zerosequence networks of a system and the same program used for either phase or ground current calculations. Only the desired fault and line current are punched out."
"The voltages produced across the tower insulators of transmission lines struck by lightning can be determined both by measurements on geometrical models and by calculations. Measurements which have been made on geometrical models of the Ohio Valley Electric Corporation's (OVEC) 345-kv transmission towers agree well with the calculations of Lundholm, Finn, and Price.1 A simplified theory has been developed, using electromagnetic field concepts and the distributed constants of transmission lines, which explains the relationships between insulator voltages and lightning voltages and lightning stroke currents. This theory includes the effects of the magnetic field produced by the return stroke and the changing electric fields produced by neutralization of the charged column of the leader."
"One of the important considerations in determining criteria for system planning is the attitude of the customers toward the quality of service. This attitude is affected by at least six factors related to interruptions: the frequency, magnitude, duration, time of day, season of year, and apparent reason for the interruption. Estimates of the effects of varying these factors have been obtained by collecting opinions of a group of supervisors and management personnel who are directly concerned with quality of electric service. Among other results, this study produced a quantitative estimate of how rapidly dissatisfaction increases with increases in frequency, magnitude, and duration of outage. Apparently duration is particularly important. The study also developed factors for taking into account the effect of outages occurring at different seasons of the year. This data has been incorporated in a mathematical model which determines, by simulation, dates when generator capacity and interconnection additions are required. The model determines the dates on the basis of a relatively constant risk of shortage of capacity, modified by customer reaction to recent results of earlier applications of this policy. The level of risk is based on a ratio of load to capacity. The threshold level for installing additional capacity is affected by the accumulated dissatisfaction resulting from previous load-reduction measures. Recent events are given greater weight in this decision. A series of misfortunes is followed by a period of greater conservatism, expressed by lower threshold levels of the availability index."
"Recently developed gas-insulated transformers are taking a prominent position in a field where existing apparatus has a long record of reliable and almost faultless service. The outstanding position of the gas-insulated transformer is due to some fundamental differences between the gases and liquids that are used for the cooling and insulation of transformers. These differences can be summarized as follows: 1. The gases being used or proposed are not combustible. 2. Although gases may decompose during accidental internal arcs, the pressures developed during these faults are only a fraction of those produced by the same arcs in liquid-filled apparatus. 3. In a liquid-insulated transformer the operation of pressure-relief devices depends upon the position of the relief device with respect to the fault position and on the rate of pressure rise. However, in a gasinsulated unit the operation of the pressurerelief device is much more reliable because of the small mass which must be moved during the fault and of the compressible characteristics of the gases. The purpose of this paper is to discuss in some detail the behavior of gas-insulated transformers under fault conditions (internal arcs) and to report results of tests made on representative apparatus. Noteworthy is the method of obtaining the pressure rise in these tests. After correlating the energy of the electric arc during fault operation with that of the energy developed by an explosive (Pentolite), interesting results were obtained by initiating the explosive charge in containers with liquids and gases."
"Fundamental changes are now taking place in the electric utility industry which require a re-evaluation of the methods now being used to select new generating capacity for expansion plans. It will no longer be sufficient to consider only one or two types of units such as base load and peaking units in the analysis which will determine the minimum cost of system expansion. The consideration of other possible types of intermediate units complicates the problem to a considerable extent. The equations presented in this paper are designed to provide a power system planner and the equipment designers with a means of deriving a direct solution of the optimum selection of all types of generating units available. For those systems on which the future generator output can be reasonably well represented by means of the loading triangle, this should considerably shorten the work required in the detailed analysis of alternate facilities. In particular, it should eliminate the necessity of a trial and error computation of total annual costs for various amount of different types of capacity in order to select the optimum combination."
"An inexpensive new instrument is described in this paper, which records the waveshapes of high-voltage (HV) transients such as lightning or switching surges. The device requires no power supply, cathoderay tube, or photographic film, and can be left unattended for long periods of time. Waveshape is recorded by the envelope of a sequence of Lichtenberg figures on a dielectric plate, and equivalent \"sweep-speeds\" of less than 5 μsec (microseconds) can be obtained for study of the wavefronts of lightning currents."
"There are many sources of error in synchro control systems. Some of these errors are due to the basic synchro design. The greatest portion of synchro error, however, is normally caused by variations in manufacturing quality and tolerances. Several papers have been written on errors caused by design. This paper presents several methods for the elimination of a large part of the error and null voltage contributed by manufacturing variations."
"Index of technical subjects and participants in discussions."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper describes a preset switching system which was developed for the purpose of increasing accuracy of switching functions in the television broadcasting system. It describes the first simple approach to the presetting problem with views for further expansion."
"This paper describes the problem of the NBC network in providing delayed program services to various areas across the country during daylight saving time. It describes the video tape facility NBC has installed in Burbank to solve this problem, and the automatic control features which have been used in this plant to simplify its operation and to make it more efficient."
"In the spring of 1958, the CBS Television Network inaugurated a full schedule of video tape recording activity from a newly completed installation in the Grand Central Terminal Building in New York City. During the ensuing daylight-saving period, these facilities provided service to 98 stations of the CBS Television Network. Combined with the service from the installation already in existence in Hollywood, over 50% of the audience covered by the network received their programming from video tape. Representing a capital investment of over $1,000,000, the New York installation presently is the largest single video tape installation in the world. This paper relates the background which led to the need for these facilities, and describes the technical and operational features of the installation."
"Each of the five Westinghouse Broadcasting Company television stations were equipped with one Ampex VR-1000 tape recorder in the Spring of 1958. Initially, on air loading was light but increased very rapidly as we gained operational experience and developed operational techniques for smooth integration of video tape recordings in our daily programming."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A two-channel multiplex system for compatible AM broadcasting is described. System objectives including compatibility, service area, and program quality are discussed. Three different methods of creating the equivalent transmitted signal are reported, and conversion of present-day monaural stations to stereo by each method is indicated. The design of receivers for recovering the two stereo tracks is examined showing the signals derived by various means of detection. Emphasis is placed on a design resulting in a reliable, minimum cost receiver. Field test equipment and results are briefly considered and the level of performance that can be obtained from the system is stated."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The presence of a fuse in the horizontal-deflection system of television receivers has become such an accepted fact that no one questions its worth or purpose. This is all the more distressing when we realize that the initial intent to fuse the system against overload from a number of causes has been effectively nullified by the unusually high values used today. These values offer protection only against a component breakdown to chassis."
"The general problem of selectivity, as always, is to amplify the wanted frequencies and reject the unwanted frequencies. This is the function of the i-f amplifier and the main reason for using the superheterodyne system at all. In television, the closest unwanted frequencies are the picture carrier of the next higher channel and the sound carrier of the next lower channel. Channels 2, 3, 5, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12 would be interfered with by the picture carrier of Channels 3, 4, 6, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13, respectively, and their roles would be interchanged as far as the sound carriers are concerned. Naturally, we want, to reject all the information in the adjacent channel, but the carriers are by far the strongest. Figure 1 illustrates how an improvement in adjacent channel rejection can increase the service area of a transmitter 100 miles from a transmitter on an adjacent channel."
"The standard measure of television-tuner input-tube performance has become the noise figure. From this first amplifier tube in the receiver nearly all of the snow and hiss in the picture and sound originate. A tube or circuit that can reduce this snow and hiss is greatly to be desired. The noise figure is a measure of an amplifier's tendency to generate the noise that results in this snow and hiss."
"This paper presents design principles and circuit details for a new color decoder which is intended to produce a high level of performance at reasonable cost."
"The first part of this paper analyzes three methods of detection of signals contaminated by fluctuation noise: (1) Linear Envelope Detectors (2) Product Detectors (3) Exalted Carrier Detectors. A new ratio, the ``video-to-noise-error ratio'' is proposed for a more adequate quantitative evaluation of detector performance. Its use is justified by a large number of theoretical curves and experimental results. The theoretical and practical results show that an improvement in the output video-to-noise-error ratio is obtained by substitution of a product detector for an envelope detector. Improvements of 11 decibels have been measured. The second part of this paper analyzes the effects of impulse noise on the detection of asymmetric sideband signals. It is shown that product detectors eliminate the rectification of the noise envelope found in envelope detectors. This is of particular interest in asymmetric sideband systems where the noise output will be at relatively high frequencies. These can often be separated from lower frequency signals, making possible efficient impulse noise suppression."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Television vertical deflection circuits using transistors and direct coupling to the deflection yoke have been described. Although techniques for compensation for the large average flux in the yoke are known they suffer from difficulties with linearity, raster distortion and power consumption. A circuit which uses direct coupling to the yoke requires approximately twice as much power from the battery as does one using a-c coupling to the yoke. This is illustrated in Figure 1 which shows graphically the relative power consumption and its division between the yoke and output transistor. Since power is a prime consideration in a portable television receiver which is to be operated from a battery, a-c coupling is considered an important design objective. To aid in understanding some of the problems involved the circuit requirements of the output and driver stages are studied."
"The recent development of suitable VHF transistors has made possible the design of transistors amplifiers at the picture intermediate frequencies. Picture i-f strips using single-tuned circuits have been successfully built.1,2 This paper describes the design of a picture i-f strip using double-tuned circuits."
"An earlier paper discussed the effect of interference pulses on the pulse-length discriminator, and defined an ideal pulse-length discriminator."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A number of unusual audio circuits has been developed which make use of a sheet-beam tube, type 6AR8. The 6AR8 tube is a miniature doubleplate sheet-beam tube which incorporates a pair of balanced deflectors to direct the electron beam to either of the two plates and a control grid to vary the intensity of the beam."
"A unique drift-free direct-coupled amplifier has been developed employing a clipper and an RC integrating circuit in a feedback loop for stability. Equations are developed and computed and experimental curves are given for amplitude and phase-shift response as a function of frequency showing an extremely sharp power drop-off at the low end."
"The basic method of automatic frequency sweep by charging a voltage variable capacitor is presented and the advantages over mechanically driven tuning capacitors are discussed."
"With the advent of a battery operated TV receiver, the need arises to develop circuits, especially sweep circuits, which will produce full scan with very little component weight and power consumption. These requirements are considered of paramount importance in the design of the vertical deflection system presented in this paper."
"This paper discusses the requirements which must be considered in the design of an r-f amplifier stage and converter for a transistor automobile receiver. Several coupling networks for the antenna and interstage circuits are discussed and performance data is given for various combinations of circuits. Data is given for a converter circuit including voltage and temperature effects on frequency stability."
"This paper describes a five-transistor automobile receiver designed to use newly developed RCA drift transistors. These drift transistors, which inherently have a high maximum available gain and low feedback capacitance, provide good performance with a minimum number of stages, thus contributing to low over-all circuit cost."
"This paper describes the use of a new semiconductor device, a diode-triode transistor, to improve detection, automatic gain control, and audio amplification in transistorized broadcastband receivers. The use of this developmental device increases the detector efficiency of battery-operated broadcast-band receivers and permits a minimum number of component parts to be used."
"Recent developments in the art have dictated the division of this paper into two component parts. The first deals with a quadrapolar, magnetic lens of rotational non-symmetry used to achieve scan magnification with a television cathode ray tube. The second concerns the development of a negative, electrostatic, gauze lens exhibiting full rotational symmetry which is also used to provide scan magnification."
"The use of ultrasonic signal transmission for remote control of television receivers has acquired great practical utility. In such a system the microphone is an important component since it determines the required gain and, to some extent, the maximum attainable sensitivity."
"Parametric amplifiers are distinguished from most active networks in that power is taken directly from an a-c source and that the phase of this source is significant in the amplification process. As a consequence of the harmonic spectrum produced by the interaction of the power source (pump) and the nonlinear element, the introduction of a small signal generates a pair of sidebands about each harmonic. Networks with variable parameters may be handled with an extension of the conventional formalism into one of frequency as well as spatial scattering."
"Four terminal equivalent circuits of variable capacitance (parametric) diodes used in various configurations of converters and amplifiers are presented. These equivalent circuits are derived from small signal approximations for the non-linear dynamic capacitance of a diode. The cases considered involve three frequencies, namely input and output signal frequencies and pumping frequency for converters or input signal frequency, idler and pumping frequencies for amplifiers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The heart of a reliability program for a complex mechanism is early detection of design weaknesses by the performance and analysis of environmental test experiments on prototype or pilot models of major parts of the mechanism. Such a program must be carried out jointly by design engineers, experts in environmental testing, and statisticians thoroughly versed in the practice of experimental design; it must be completed before the onset of scheduled production."
"-Missiles with built-in recoverability features have been of interest to most missile firms and many related firms for some time. In order to evaluate the adequacy of recoverable missile performance, it is frequently necessary to answer such questions as, ``With what probability will m such missiles yield a total of N or more successful flights?'' or, ``How many missiles should be allocated to a test program in which N or more successful flights must be realized with probability Q?'' Answers to these questions are obtained in terms of three basic reliability characteristics: 1. probability of a successful flight, 2. probability of recovering after a successful flight, and 3. probability of recovering after an unsuccessful flight. In addition, a decision rule is derived for selecting the ``best'' reliability program."
"It is the purpose of this paper to present the results, conclusions and recommendations of the analysis of electronic equipment to provide the optimum system worth, with regard to reliability and performance. Additional parameters set up in the three mathematical regimes are minimum weight, minimum geometric space envelope, schedule time delays, and cost trade-offs. This paper further proposes a methodical engineered system which attaches numerical quantities and mathematical relationships which may be measured and compared to parameters determining electronic equipment system worth. Value engineering concepts are thus generalized for electronic equipment to include many significant, parameters for optimum system worth -- with probability of success and performance replacing cost reductions as the prime yardstick for analytical trade-off comparisons. Forcing function inputs include transportation and handling loads, gunfire, takeoff, landing, flight maneuvers and catapult dynamic loads. These are mathematically treated as random vibrations, random shock, sustained acceleration, steady-state sinusoidal vibrations at resonance, sweep-cycle sinusoidal vibrations, and sudden impulse shock. The electronic equipment is analyzed under all probable conditions of the true environment plus the requisite conditions of the governing military specifications. Critical deflections, rotations, stresses and deformations are determined at all key substations of each dynamic subsystem of the electronic equipment. Each electronic tube is subdivided into the significant subsystems: 1. Cantilevered gun and assembly 2. Cantilevered heater and button assembly 3. Ceramic rods and helix 4. Outer envelope 5. Collector end 6."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"Four companies engaged in research and development were interviewed relative to their method of cost prediction. Company A, engaged in military equipment development, uses a complex operating organization to make estimates. Company B, engaged in commercial development, uses a summary unit cost, i.e., number or predicted man years multiplied by a given number of dollars. Company C, commercial research and development, estimates on the basis of individual projects but holds department managers accountable only for total department costs. Company D, government research and development, uses the future operating structure as does Company A, but seems to use a less complex structure. A further investigation into the use of Summary unit costs is recommended."
"Effective recruiting requires teamwork between the personnel staff and the research and development organization; neither should shirk its responsibilities. Effective organization for the task of recruiting creative engineers and scientists will also improve the recruiting of engineers in general. Creative individuals are especially sensitive to the nonmaterialistic aspects of their working environment. These include the nature of the work, reputation of the organization, opportunities for growth, quality of supervision, and living conditions. With reference to the applicant, recruiting may be divided into six basic elements: attracting, screening, visiting, interviewing, decision-making, and follow-up. All involve participation by both line and staff parts of the organization, but the responsibilities of each group are distinct. The personnel staff has the basic responsibilities of providing professional employment guidance and of handling administrative details. These duties include personnel research, employment planning, organizing the recruiting effort, training recruiters, screening applicants for further consideration, arranging laboratory or plant visits, interviewing from a nontechnical viewpoint, and coordinating the action on the decision, the offer, and the subsequent follow-up. Technical management must set its own manpower requirements, both quantitavely and qualitatively, and make the final decision whether to hire a given individual. Nonsupervisory technical personnel can contribute effectively in attracting, recruiting, and interviewing applicants. Criteria are discussed for selecting people to do the recruiting tasks."
"A merit rating plan based only on one criterion, over-all performance, was tested in one section of approximately sixty engineer-scientists in a large industrial research laboratory. The procedure used is discussed along with some general results. In addition, a measure of individual productivity was developed based on the average number of technical reports, publications, and patent disclosures written per year. A fairly good correlation was found between the merit ratings and the measure of productivity."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"Organization of an engineering department in a small company is described. The four basic functions of the department are discussed; namely, custom engineering, sales assistance, production assistance, and new product design. The role of committees in carrying out interdepartment liaison is presented, and the specific working committees and their functions are described. Comments are presented on Management's problems in the areas of 1) providing necessary technical skills, 2) budgetary control of manpower, as required for custom engineering on fixed price-contracts and new product development, and 3) intradepartment organization versus integration of the department into the over-all company organization."
"It is possible to go a long way toward optimizing the profitability of a complex enterprise by: 1) getting each local management team to commit itself in advance regarding the activities it believes to be marginal, then measuring the profitability of the marginal activities; 2) comparing the performance of company components with that of outside independent agencies; and 3) designing compensation schemes that properly reward efforts aimed at achieving long-and short-term goals."
"Personnel turnover is a problem facing practically all managerial staffs. It has become a serious problem for some. The same holds true for replacement of personnel. This paper presents a method for analyzing personnel turnover. The method is relatively simple and yet systematic. Since evaluation techniques would involve too many variables, they are not discussed. Various techniques require specific examples as they do not apply in general. The analysis will apply, in general, to any turnover situation. In addition, the replacement of personnel is discussed. The results from the analysis, and subsequent evaluation, will determine the personnel policy for the hiring of new personnel."
"Research and development laboratories use information as a raw material in the course of carrying out their assigned function. They, in turn, generate new information. The input of information referred to is of several varieties-theory, data, applications, economic factors, etc. The information generated is likewise of several kinds-theory, data, devices, processes, etc.--which are of importance to the company in maintaining and extending its competitive position and its prestige. Input information is defined as all of the information that can be gleaned from all sources that will be useful as background in carrying out this project. Similarly, output information will be the results of the project when written up as company reports, scientific papers, general articles plus the ideas, devices, data, etc., carried to the manufacturing operation. The handling of input information to the research project is a communication process which involves collection, evaluation and dissemination. In analogous fashion, these processes are operative in handling the information output of the laboratory. An analysis of the nature of input and output information components permits a more detailed study of specific requirements and leads to improved procedures for increasing the effectiveness of the communication process. Recognizing the fact that technical information must compete for top management attention with reports from other major parts of the company-sales, public relations, legal, etc.--the importance of the attention-getting power of research reports and communications becomes clearly evident. Some suggestions are given that may be helpful in attaining this objective."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"Consideration of the legal structure of corporations, and of long-term price and dividend trends of industrial stocks, leads to the conclusion that a corporation achieves its maximum profitability when the discounted value of the over-all flow of cash associated with its various activities is a maximum. The appropriate discount rate is somewhere near 6 per cent. Since each project, individually, must have its maximum possible discounted value, the profitability criterion serves as a criterion for decision-making."
"This paper develops the thesis that marketing research can make a significant contribution to new product conception and development. A discussion of new product development is presented within the framework of meeting the challenge of changing needs of the market and the competition of companies who are market-oriented and working to anticipate the needs of their customers. Companies engaged in research and development work are committing important resources in new product and new concept development in order to survive, yet there is a risk of failure that is inherent in such activities. Although it is agreed that the risk of failure cannot be eliminated, it is recommended that this risk can be reduced by utilizing the discipline of marketing research."
"The pattern of military electronics procurement in recent years has shifted away from large-scale production of relatively simple systems-black boxes, they may be called-and toward the development and production of fewer systems of increasing complexity. To meet the challenges imposed by this change, the industry has found it necessary, in many cases, to form teams of specialist organizations, each possessing one or more of the capabilities necessary for the task in question. Although the structure of the relationships which bind the team together may vary, the basic attributes are the same. In this paper, the characteristics of team contracting are revealed and the advantages of this form of solving specific military problems are discussed."
"Our intensive search for knowledge, basic and applied, must be accompanied by a corresponding search for the principles underlying the management of research and development. An attempt has been made here to seek out the factors of major importance and to organize them into a meaningful whole. Basic to this analysis have been the views of product value and cost as streams in time, and of managerial capabilities as probabilities of project completion, also varying in time. A simple model based on these concepts has been developed for a business in which the products are characterized by great complexity and by rapid change. The model is simply a tool to understanding-a way of looking at a business. Rational procedures have been derived for making certain the major project decisions."
"Whether management has effective control of professional operations such as Research and Development is difficult to judge because the required level of creativity varies from project to project. To eliminate this variable, patent operations, which require specialized creativity of constant intensity, were chosen for study. Results of a questionnaire sent to 100 electronics companies indicate that quantity, quality and cost controls in most corporate patent programs are rudimentary or non-existent. This raises a question as to whether management ccntrol (in the cybernetic sense) is achievable in any area of professional operations."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available"
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"The process of machining a finished part from a numerical description involves a number of data processing steps, as well as the actual metal cutting operations. The approach to accomplishing this purpose is generally organized in two major groups of equipment. One group consists of a general-purpose digital computer with associated input and output equipment. The second group of equipment consists of electronic machine control units, electrohydraulic servo drives, feedback units, and the machine tool itself. These equipment groups are described with reference to the Bendix system. Also, operating experience in existing installations is discussed."
"The operation and fail-safe features of the safety devices for a high speed bearing and shaft seal testing machine, operating between 10,000 rpm and 110,000 rpm, are discussed in this paper. The machine consists of an air turbine which drives a load through a flexible quill shaft. The safety devices interrupt the turbine air supply by a valve when either a predetermined torque or a preset speed is exceeded. Magnetic pickup signals genrated by magnetic pins attached to the rotating shaft operate the safety devices. An electrical shutoff signal is developed during the first revolution of overtorque or overspeed. These safety devices, including the valve, must be fail-safe and operate in approximately 27 ms to prevent possible turbine disintegration due to centrifugal forces in the event of load removal by quill breakage."
"This paper describes a relay servo system used in the positioning of machine tools. Its primary application is in the manufacture of parts that have to fit accurately other parts on which all machining has been completed. A linear transducer uses the dimension of the machined part to obtain the reference signal, while a matched linear transducer provides the error signal for the servo system. A particular application of the servo system as used in a fully automatic railroad shop is described."
"Shipping cartons are automatically filled from a 24 parallel channel feeder and photoelectric detection system. A doubly preset counter summarizes all 24 channels to first reduce speed and then stop the feed at a preset total count. One conveyor system serves four such feeder-counter combinations. The system has a counting capacity of approximately 200,000 capsules per minute."
"Electronic equipment used with nuclear reactors performs the functions of operational control of the reactor, surveillance of the reactor power and period, and protection against dangerous power excursions and periods. Transistorized circuits and duplicate channels of equipment provide the reliability which assures safe, continuous operation of the reactor."
"Automatic, production-type, sonic inspection based on the measurement of the fundamental vibrating frequency and/or decrement of a mechanically shocked casting has been in operation in our foundries for several years. The method has been suitable for the detection of cracks, voids, porosity, mottle, shrink, etc., on many of the parts having simple geometries. However, the more complex castings can vibrate in many basic modes and these modes upon shock excitation may interact indistinguishably. Swept-frequency, continuous-wave, forced vibration obviates mode interaction and permits casting evaluation by comparison of the sonic energy absorption spectra. Center frequencies, bandwidths, and amplitudes of certain of the absorption peaks usually establish overall quality. The multichannel Swept Sonic Tester evaluates a given casting by determining the presence of a response within each of several preselected bands. These channels have very sharp limits which are established by active, tunable, twin-T networks. Each channel is self-contained permitting the system to be extended to accommodate any degree of casting complexity by adding channels in building block fashion. The spectrum sweep, having an adjustable sweep width, sweep rate, and starting frequency, is accomplished by heterodyning a crystal oscillator with a reactance-controlled frequency-swept oscillator and approximately follows the derived ideal frequency vs. time characteristic for conserving inspection time."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"A computing servo capable of accurate rate and position operation with extended frequency response relative to conventional computing servos is described. The usual tachometer generator with its penalizing inertia is avoided in this design. Rate feedback is provided instead by a precision capacitor which couples the follow-up potentiometer to the input summing junction. Design objectives, compromises, and performance data are reviewed."
"An automatic mail cancelling and facing machine has been developed which processes 500 letters per minute in a single pass. Letters are introduced into the complex, five-module machine system in random postage stamp orientations, high or low, leading or trailing. Stamp locations are individually detected by flying spot scanners. These scanners generate command signals for the selective actuation of the appropriate one of twelve cancelling heads and for the subsequent direction of the letter to one of four terminal letter collection stackers in which all letters are uniformly faced, that is, with-stamps, and therefore addresses, oriented in the same manner."
"This paper describes a punched-tape control system for a vertical turret lathe having a rail head and a side head. The system exercises complete control over turret indexing, tool feeds, table speed, tool dwell, etc. Coordination of the operations of the two heads is obtained by proper wording of the program. Calibrated adjusting potentiometers (automatically selected by the control) have been provided to allow the operator to compensate for tool deflections, and the like, on critical workpiece dimensions. Novel features such as single-cycle operation, single-head operation, and operation repeat have been incorporated in the control to facilitate the setup procedure. Programming is simple and direct, with no equipment required other than a standard 8 channel Flexowriter."
"The dominant consideration influencing the trend toward automatic test and checkout techniques for production-line test stations is cost reduction. Testing costs include the costs of test equipment and spares, of operating and maintaining personnel, of floor space, and of down time. As test cost per unit produced is the basis for comparison, the test rate achieved per station is a major factor. An analysis of test station requirements for a mass-produced missile is used as an example. This analysis shows major reductions in test cost per unit as a result of automation for subassemblies which have fairly complex test requirements; whereas for simple subassemblies, there are no cost improvements and manual testing is quite satisfactory. The necessity for maintaining high test rates with fewer, less skilled operators and with the corresponding reduction in test-stations imposes high reliability requirements on automated equipment in order to preserve this economic advantage. Therefore, such features as self-checking, fail-safe design, and printed-out test results are essential. The construction of automatic test sets from functional universal modules reduces first cost of equipment, permits rapid and economic servicing, and reduces obsolescence of equipment. Another advantage of the modular approach to production-line test set design is that test sets using only a low order of automation may utilize modules identical to those of the fully automated equipment. This extends the ``break-even'' point in the choice between automated and manual equipment towards increased application of the more sophisticated techniques."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"THE celebrated surgeon Alexis Carrel, pioneer in the surgery of blood vessels and a leader in the development of tissue culture, dreamed of the day when human organs might be grown in flasks for study of their function and for use in replacing diseased organs of patients. Tissue culture was possible because the cells and fragments were small enough to be nourished by diffusion from the surrounding medium. Whole organs had to be supplied with nutritive fluids by perfusion through their blood vessels. This required a sterilizable glass pump, into which bacteria could not penetrate. When Carrel and his technicians ran into difficulty in designing a pump, he found an unexpected ally in Charles Lindbergh, the aviator. Lindbergh had become interested in the idea of an artificial heart to substitute for the human heart during operations on that organ, and hearing of Carrel's work, volunteered his services as an amateur inventor and mechanic. Beginning work at the Rockefeller Institute in 1930, Lindbergh worked as a volunteer in Carrel's laboratory for about five years. His first pump was a coil of glass tubing rotated by a motor as one waves a flag, so that the centrifugal force drove the fluid into a chamber containing the explanted organ. This pump proved to be not perfectly bacteria-proof and did not produce a pulsating flow. Continuing his very ingenious efforts, in 1934, Lindbergh found he could use glass valves, and produced a design which was executed by the Institute's glass-blower, Otto Hopf."
"DESIGNERS of artificial internal organs face many difficult physical and physiological requirements. In order to correct for an organic malfunction, it is necessary for these prosthetic devices to carry out certain physicochemical operations under the control of both specific and not-so-specific signals that originate inside the body and/or in the outside world. This task calls for the establishment of adequate information-matching procedures. The devices must be prepared to deal with control signals in the form of spatiotemporal patterns of electrical, mechanical, or even chemical activity. Appropriate coding (including the necessary redundancy) must insure the transmission of the information-bearing elements, or ``distinctive features,'' of these paterns in the presence of various types of interference, or ``noise.'' In many instances, our knowledge of the control circuits for the various organs is still incomplete. Neuro-physiological research during the last decade has, for instance, focused on elucidating the role of the less specific ascending and descending pathways in the nervous system, in contrast with the better-known (``classical'') afferent pathways.1 Designers of artificial organs are thus often faced with specifications that lack some of the most important data. Another difficulty that stands in the way of establishing rational procedures for the design of artificial organs is our inability to agree upon the evaluation of the performance of a device that has multiple inputs and multiple outputs and that only too often fulfills multiple functions. Under such circumstances, it is not reasonable to hope for a simple, unambiguous figure of merit or of efficiency."
"1) The platinum polarograph provides an accurate method of measuring oxygen transmission through different membranes. 2) High oxygen transmission through Teflon membranes is confirmed. 3) Measured values of oxygen transmission for a Clowes-type oxygenator are approximately one-third to one-half those obtained by polarographic measurements. This discrepancy is discussed. 4) The measured transmission of carbon dioxide through Teflon is very low compared to the figures obtained for oxygen at physiological pressures. Behavior of the two gases is dissociated and depends on their individual partial pressures. Data are presented which suggest that diffusion of gases through Teflon membranes can be predicted best from the behavior of the gases in dry air. This is important since diffusion through biological membranes depends on the behavior of gases in liquids. Apparently use of the dry membrane Teflon in an oxygenator results in carbon dioxide retention. The data indicate that the samples of cellophane and polyethylene tested are only slightly wettable and also show relatively poor ability to transmit carbon dioxide. Wettable cellophane has a favorable diffusion ratio. 5) It is suggested that no present benefit can be derived from improved oxygenation in membrane oxygenators because the limiting factor is the diffusion of carbon dioxide. A Teflon oxygenator, for instance, must be used at less than 25 per cent efficiency as far as oxygenation is concerned to prevent carbon dioxide retention."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in the conference."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available"
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Medical Research often requires the continual and simultaneous recording of several variable biological quantities. If slowly changing variables, such as blood pressure, heart beat, respiratory movement, have to be recorded simultaneously with the action potentials of a nerve, a cathode-ray oscilloscope with camera attachment has to be used. All nonelectrical variables must, in this case, be converted into electrical quantities. Commercially available transducers, such as pressure gauges, capacity manometer, require much auxiliary equipment and are very expensive; however, satisfactory results can often be obtained by using only simple additions to standard electrophysiological equipment. An example of such simple instrumentation is given in this paper."
"Whole-body irradiation of mice by electromagnetic energy at a wavelength of 3 cm, carried out in the course of investigations of the microwave radiation hazard, has demonstrated the usefulness of such radiation as a method of studying thermal balance in mammals. An analysis is presented that accounts for observed temperature changes during and after irradiation on the basis of theoretical considerations of thermal disequilibrium."
"In recent years small radio transmitters have been developed that can transmit physiological information from within the human body. The present units are small enough to be introduced into the bladder, or to be swallowed without unpleasant sensation. A summary of these recent developments is given along with some of the present lines of investigation toward future forms. A representative unit is described in some detail."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The integration of a signal of varying pulse amplitude and frequency is discussed. Several solutions are considered, and a method is described in which an accurate integration is obtained with a circuit of short time constant and virtually infinite decay time."
"A discussion is given on some of the current ideas behind the control engineer's approach to the problem of developing servomechanisms which exhibit some degree of adaptive behavior. Several categories of adaptive systems are discussed and an attempt is made to associate the operating principle of the systems in each category with the behavior of the human being when he acts as a controlling device. A particular system developed for application in the field of automatic flight control is discussed from a functional point of view. The controller, using an analog model which operates on the input information, determines a ``standard of performance'' for the controlled element which closely approximates the performance desired by an experienced operator. The remainder of the controller, using a very simple passive network as a switching function computer to determine the state of a bistable device, forces the controlled element to operate in such a manner as to minimize continuously the error between the desired performance and the actual performance. The controller exhibits adaptive behavior in the sense that it operates in such a manner as to keep the actual performance of the system practically invariant, although the parameters of the controlled element change over a relatively wide range of values."
"Experiments are described demonstrating the passage of one-mc/sec continuous wave ultrasound through the heart and lungs at power levels of 100 mw/cm2 at the transducer terminals (a total of 1.25 watts). When the sound was directed through the region of the heart, the ultrasound was modulated by the moving intra-thoracic structures in synchronism with the heart beat. The records obtained were modified both by exercise and by amyl nitrite administered to the subject, but remained synchronous with the heart rate. Modulation of the ultrasound did not occur in two warm corpses. Sonic energy at the levels used to traverse the thorax did not affect a simultaneously recorded electrocardiogram. No deleterious effects have been observed on a subject whose heart was irradiated at 1 watt/cm2 and 3 watts/cm2 (totals of 12.5 and 37.5 watts, respectively) applied to transducer terminals at intervals over a period of one year (Appendix I). When continuous wave ultrasound was directed through a lung field clear of the heart, it was found that the attenuation varied 50 db between full inspiration and a lung emptying of 3400 cubic cm (0 db = full inspiration). In addition to direct transmission, sound is scattered throughout the thorax. The mechanics of the ultrasonic phenomena are described."
"A new method of quantitating muscle rigidity in terms of energy consumption per cycle of passive motion has been presented. The chief advantage of this method is its relative freedom from exact positioning of the patient with respect to the testing machine and its greater sensitivity as compared to torque measurements. Additional uses for the instrument include the measurement of tremor and strength."
"A corrected orthogonal 3-lead system has been used to record electrocardiograms directly from patients at Veterans Hospitals, using three FM channels of magnetic tape. A pilot facility has been designed and assembled by NBS to permit a medical technician to inspect these on an oscilloscope and select a significant cardiac cycle. This is automatically sampled at millisecond intervals and the numerical values are stored in digital form on magnetic tape acceptable to an electronic computer. Upon writing various programs for the digital computer, the cardiac researcher will have a flexible tool for objective analysis of large quantities of biological data by a variety of possible criteria."
"A micro technique has been developed to facilitate the study of electric field effects on the swimming pattern of sperm cells. The instrumentation for this technique, a micro-electrophoresis vessel, a metering motion picture projector, and a simple analog computer for data handling, are briefly described. It is shown experimentally that 1) an electric field imposed on a cell suspension acts primarily to direct the cells to the anode without appreciably changing their swimming speed, and 2) the field effects are not linear functions of field strength. It is postulated that the field effect is primarily galvanotaxis and that the cells seek a position of minimum stimulation and therefore must have a transverse sensitivity axis."
"Autocorrelation and crosscorrelation analysis, which have been used extensively in statistical communication theory in the past few years, can be applied, with certain limitations, to the study of the EEG (electroencephalograph). Autocorrelograms for normal subjects can be classified in several categories, according to the dominant frequency, or frequencies, present, and other parameters. Crosscorrelograms of EEG recordings from different locations on the head permit a comparison of the electrical activity at the two locations. Correlation functions and power-density spectra contain equivalent information because the one may be obtained from the other by Fourier transformation; but, because of the squaring and multiplication that appear in the computation process, the data so obtained are not exact equivalents of the frquency spectra derived from tuned resonators. A special case of crosscorrelation analysis (crosscorrelation of a repetitive signal with a synchronously occurring brief pulse) can be applied to the detection of electric responses evoked by sensory stimulation. This process is equivalent to averaging a large number of individual responses. Illustrative examples, obtained from semi-automatic computers especially designed for the purpose, are given."
"An automatic pressure regulator for controlling venous pressure during extracorporeal heart operations is described. The controller is used in procedures where a pressure is maintained in the venae cavae; i.e., where gravity flow is not used to drain the venous blood. A differential pressure transducer produces an error signal which controls the field current in a dc shunt motor and, consequently, the rate of pumping. The sensitivity of the controller can be varied in eight steps; on the most sensitive range, an error of less than 0.20 mm Hg can be detected and corrected. The total change in motor speed and hence pumping rate is ± 20 per cent."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A pulsed ultransonic flowmeter has been developed specifically for the simultaneous measurement of blood flow through various major blood vessels in the intact unanesthetized animal. The flow section is a small (1-3 cm) lucite cylinder which is clamped about the blood vessel. Piezoelectric crystals are mounted on the flow section so that bursts of 3-mc sound may be transmitted alternately upstream and downstream. The flowmeter develops a voltage which is proportional to the difference in the upstream and downstream transit times of the sound. This voltage is recorded continuously and calibrated in terms of flow. Under optimal conditions, the output voltage is a linear and accurate representation of volume flow within ±5 per cent, independent of the velocity profile. The flowmeter responds to a step variation in flow within 0.01 second. The maximum noise and baseline drift is equivalent to a flow velocity variation of less than 1 cm/second measured over a 4-hour period."
"The problem of design of a square-wave electromagnetic flowmeter may be simplified by the use of a mechanical chopper as the gating device. Such an instrument has been assembled using commercial components costing less than $1000. A commercial 400-cycle chopper amplifier, Offner model 190, was modified to perform the sampling. Carrier signal was provided by Tektronix 162 and 161 generators. Proper synchronization with the chopper is obtained by use of the 161 delay control. Magnet assemblies were made of ferrite toroidal cores and platinum electrodes, cast in epoxy resin and powered directly by a Heathkit 70-watt amplifier. Using a carrier frequency of 400 cps, good frequency response, stability, and signal-to-noise levels were attained. Calibration curves are linear for forward and backward flow. Sensitivity was sufficient to record blood flow levels of 1 ml per minute."
"Design goals and reasons for the selection of a 60-cps square-wave electromagnetic blood flowmeter are presented. Detailed description of the flowmeter is given with emphasis on demodulator techniques. Complete performance data of step function response, stability, and performance with small and large flows are shown graphically. One application of the flowmeter and analog integrator is given showing response to a periodic hydraulic flow."
"The flowmeter described is a turbine which can be driven by the bloodstream. In the turbine is a magnet which induces a recordable signal in an adjacent coil. The flowmeter records pulsating flow as well as steady flow; it is insensitive to temperature and wide variations of blood viscosity. The pressure drop is rather high. The base line and calibration are steady over long periods of time. The flowmeter has been successfully used for continuously recording the systemic output in the dog."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodical."
"Presents a brief biography of G.E. Valley, Jr. Hie is a Fellow of the American Physical Society, and( holds a Certificate of Appreciation from the U.S. Armiy, the P)resident's Certificate of Merit, the Air Force Association Science Award, and( the Air Force Exceptional Civilian Service Award (twice)."
"Weapon System Management is a term in common use. The author describes some of the problems encountered in developing complete air weapons for combat use. The design problems caused by introduction of jet engines, missiles, and complex electronic systems, in the post-World War II period engendered a developmental pattern which emphasized the need for integration of all components. System engineering, in the control engineering connotation, and operations analyses are necessary parts of the management of modern military weapons."
"With the increasing complexity and cost of weapon systems, it is becoming ever more important to provide a product that will be useful to the customer, that will provide reliable service, and that will have growth capabilities so that its useful life can be prolonged to meet the ever increasing enemy threat. The management of the research and development program for such large projects must provide detailed and careful planning and control in order to produce an integrated system on a minimum schedule. System approach, now the byword of the electronic industry, means many things to many people. To the authors of this paper, it is the orderly arrangement of many details that are necessary to the sound planning of a large development effort."
"A description is given of practical systems engineering methods as applied to large military systems in an industrial environment. Particular emphasis is placed on a design approach which stresses minimum interconnections between subsystems and on system testing methods. Also discussed are system evaluation, management, and costs."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodical."
"Presents a brief biography of Krafft A. Ehricke. "
"Some of the problems and applications of ionic propulsion systems are discussed. Three different systems' optimization criteria are considered: the maximization of the initial acceleration of a space vehicle; the minimization of the total-mass-to-payload-mass ratio; and the minimization of the propellant mass required to refuel the vehicle. The production, acceleration, and neutralization of beams of singly-ionized cesium ions is also discussed in limited detail. A hot tungsten contact-catalyst type of ion source is assumed and some experimental results with such a source are reviewed. Finally, a simplified treatment of the space charge neutralization of a positive ion beam in the region behind the space vehicle is presented. In this treatment, the positive-ion beam is replaced by an infinitely-long cylinder of uniformly-distributed positive charge. Electrons are emitted from an annular filament encircling the perimeter of the beam. It is shown that this approximation leads to radial oscillations of the electrons through the positive column."
"An analysis of some of the more immediate space missions indicates that a large increase in payload can be achieved when electrical propulsion is used instead of chemical propulsion. For missions in the gravitational field of the Earth and to the Moon, the optimum specific impulse range for electrical propulsion is from about 1500 to 5000 seconds. Electrical propulsion with neutral plasma devices operate well in this specific impulse range as well as at higher specific impulses. Three different chambers have been described as examples of devices using neutral plasmas. Some of the factors which limit the range of efficient operation of such devices have been discussed."
"Plasma propulsion systems are arranged in three categories according to the cyclic nature of the jet produced; 1) steady, 2) alternating or wave-accelerated, and 3) pulsed. Typical systems within each category are described with emphasis on work being done at the NASA Lewis Research Center. The criteria for evaluating the relative merits of these systems are listed and the advantages and disadvantages pointed out. Such parameters as energy efficiency and propellant utilization must be measured before conclusions can be reached as to the eventual applicability of any of these systems."
"A brief review is given of various types of devices for converting heat or radiant energy directly into readily available electrical form. These devices include the thermoelectric generator, the photovoltaic cell, the thermionic converter, and the photoemissive converter. The discussion is from the point of view of possible space-vehicle application. An attempt is made to indicate in a general way the present state of development, the advantages and difficulties associated with each device, and to suggest general lines of future research."
"The possible role of a controlled thermonuclear reactor in space missions is discussed. Although such a reactor is many years from reality, some of its properties are understood well enough to indicate problems which will appear and which are peculiar to space flight. It appears that it will have to deliver electric power or thrust at a weight of about one pound per kw in order to represent significant improvement over other systems, notably the fission-electric one. One attractive feature of a fusion reactor, as now envisioned, is that it may lend itself to the direct production of electricity or even thrust, without an intermediate heat cycle. It is essential to avoid such a cycle if the weight is to be kept low."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodical."
"Presents a brief biography of Edward C. Callahan. After World War 1I, Callahan was assignied to the Bureau of Aeronautics; the Naval Air Development Center, and the U.S. Naval Training Device Center in Washington, D.C."
"This paper gives a short history of the need for navigation training and tells what a navigator should know. It also tells how navigators were trained in the middle ages and of training devices used then as well as explaining the requirements of the modern celestial navigation trainer and how the 1A19 meets these requirements. It explains, in general engineering terms, the techniques used for simulation of motion and references and changes in references required for navigating."
"This paper traces the development of the various techniques used to generate synthetic land mass or terrain radar signals for radar training devices. The survey begins with a description and assessment of the Ultrasonic System and concludes with a discussion of the more flexible Two-Transparency System now under development by the Navy."
"This paper describes the design and development problems associated with the construction of the first operational flight trainer to simulate a helicopter. Included is a description of the components comprising the trainer along with a discussion of its capabilities and training value for indoctrinating Army helicopter pilots in the flight characteristics of the H-37A Helicopter. Problems in deriving a complete set of motion equations were encountered in the initial phases of the project. These are described as is the approach used in simulating the rotor aerodynamics. The attachment to the operational flight trainer used by the student for visual flight training is also described in detail."
"This paper explains the present methods of simulating the earth's topography and their uses, the difficulty and time consumed in making some of these simulations, and the limitations of their uses. It then explains the need for some better method because of the greater volume of topographic information required in greater detail because of the needs of cold war, national defense, industry, road expansion, seaway expansion, airport construction, radar site construction-all to be done in a great hurry. It leads up to the automatic terrain model system. It explains quickly the several systems that were considered and why the printed circuit system was chosen. It mentions the fact that the information is stored on magnetic tape and utilized to carve a three-dimensional terrain model, and then goes into detail as to the greater information that this particular system can provide automatically that cannot be done except through extensive hand calculation with the other systems."
"The role of the flight simulator in the space vehicle program is presented in this paper. Application of a simulator as an engineering and development aid is the subject of the discussion. A simulator for training the space crew is anticipated and therefore is mentioned in passing. A brief review is made of contemporary thinking regarding anticipated physiological and psychological effects on the future crew. A simulator is then defined which will integrate these effects, thus providing a complete environment for experimentation. Early phasing of the integrated simulator with the space vehicle is suggested as a better foundation for design of the space cabin or capsule than sole dependence on feedback from early flights."
"The Human Disorientation Device has been developed as a research tool in the field of aviation medicine for the generation of angularly accelerated motion to enable the accomplishment of medical research in the field of animal or human responses to angular acceleration. The device will produce accurately known and controlled values of angular acceleration about two axes of rotation when the subject is seated so that his head is located at the point specified by the intersection of the axes. The Human Disorientation Device will allow medical research in the field of sensory responses to angular acceleration, vertigo, and similar phenomena required for an analysis of human behavior and human performance limitations in the rapid maneuvering (spin and tumbling, etc.) of high-speed aircraft and spacecraft."
"This paper describes a method of simulating the radar displays of an airborne radar system. The simulator employs a scan-programmed vidicon tube and a low-power light source in conjunction with a three-dimensional terrain model to simulate radar return from land-mass formations, cultural areas, and target complexes. All effects of a moving aircraft, including velocity, heading, altitude, position, and attitude, are included in the simulation. This device will produce the displays for ground mapping, contour mapping and terrain clearance radar systems. It may be employed with an operational flight simulator or as a self-contained radar mission trainer for radar navigation and blind bombing operations."
"This paper describes a Radar Track Simulator which generates the track of thirty-two aircraft in x, y, and h coordinates accurate to one-hundreth of a mile and produces video accurate to one-hundreth of a mile in range, one milliradian in azimuth and two milliradians in elevation. The output video signals are modified by the radar beam pattern, aircraft scintillation noise, radar receiver noise, fading of video signal with range, and blip-scan effects to produce a realistic display."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodical."
"Presents a brief biography of Lt. General Bernard A. Schriever."
"The purpose of the Able-3 program is to place a scientific observatory in a highly elliptic satellite orbit. A scintillation counter, ion chamber, Geiger counter, and proportional counter telescope in the payload permit comprehensive mapping of corpuscular radiation over a large volume of the geomagnetic region, including the Van Allen radiation belts. Simultaneously, the fundamental static quantities, electron density, and vector magnetic intensity are to be measured. A VLF experiment is included to measure upper atmosphere VLF noise and to study the propagation characteristic of VLF between the ground and the satellite. A radio scintillation experiment using radio telescopes will measure the effects of ionospheric irregularities on amplitude and phase. Micrometeorite detection equipment in the payload provides a two-point momentum spectrum of micrometeorites encountered, and an image scanner is included to examine reflection characteristics of the earth."
"This paper discusses the Able-3 payload instrumentation. The design parameters and functional characteristics of this instrumentation are discussed in terms of the two goals of this program: to build a payload which gathers as much scientific information as possible concerning the space environment about the earth, and to develop and check out communications, power supply, and temperature control systems suitable for subsequent interplanetary space probes. The basic electronics of the satellite and their relationship with the experimental equipment as well as with structural and other aspects of the satellite are discussed in some detail. Particular emphasis is placed on the communications system, and, in particular, on the new digital telemetry system and its value to deep space exploration."
"Developments in guided missiles and related scientific areas have reached a state where ballistic flights to the planets Venus and Mars are feasible and imminent with existing hardware. This paper discusses considerations involved in making actual ballistic flight to Venus. Conventional two-dimensional analysis is compared to the actual three-dimensional case. Burnout conditions required to minimize the problems of guidance, payload, range safety, booster aerodynamics, midcourse guidance, and capture are established. Problems relating to launch times, launch latitude, and interplanetary communications are also discussed."
"In the very near future man will escape from his terrestrial environment and venture into space. The first flights will be limited space voyages circling the earth only one or sereral times at altitudes from 100 to 500 miles. As technological advances permit, these space journeys will become longer in duration and farther from earth until travel between planets in our solar system is accomplished. Ultimately of course, travel outside our solar system is envisioned. The hazards of space flight are numerous. An environment paralleling that of the earth's must be simulated as closely as possible inside the space capsule. In providing such an environment, those problems of air regeneration, temperature control, pressure control, etc., are overcome. One potential hazard from which man in space cannot be effectively protected is radiation. Therefore, the intensity of space radiations and their biological effects must be evaluated prior to prolonged space journeys if such journeys are to be accomplished without undue risk. The aeromedical field laboratory is now studying a space radiation detection system which would be capable of detecting and identifying the several forms of space radiation and the intensity of each form. Once the types and intensities of radiation prevalent in space are ascertained, it will be possible to study, in earth laboratories, the biological effects of most of these radiations."
"It is the purpose of this paper to show that optical accuracies can be reached with electronic tracking if the refractive index is known at the site of the radar, as well as at the site of the target. This is the case in tracking space vehicles with microwaves. The index can be measured at the tracking site and it is unity beyond the denser atmosphere. Ionospheric influences can be neglected in the higher kilomegacycle range. It is also shown that the uncertainty of the course of any particular profile between the surface of the earth and the target has only minute effects on range and angular errors. Accuracy limits are determined and presented numerically. The inherent high precision of modern electronic tracking systems can be fully utilized under these conditions; this is not the case in tracking vehicles flying in the atmosphere."
"This paper shows that there is a need to differentiate, at least on occasion, between weapon and nonweapon space systems where their reliability is concerned. Three criteria are offered as a means of determining whether this differentiation need be made in the case of any particular nonweapon space system. Where this differentiation should be made, possible reliability approaches for the nonweapon space system are suggested."
"This paper summarizes problems which confront engineers who are responsible for the design of radar beacons and beacon antennas used in IRBM and ICBM test vehicles. The most important factors which affect compatibility between the beacon and tracking radars at the test range are enumerated. Cited also are several design areas which should be correlated with the test range prior to finalization of beacon design criteria."
"A description is given of several studies undertaken in the design of a small, gas cell stabilized atomic frequency standard making use of the field-independent hyperfine resonance of rubidium 87 at 6834 mc. In the standard considered, light from a rubidium vapor lamp is used to enhance the population differences between the atomic levels involved in the resonance and also to provide a means of detecting the microwave resonance. One of the studies described is concerned with the generation of requisite microwave energy at the resonant frequency, another with the choice of an optimum length for the gas cell, and the last with the optimization of parameters for the modulation process used."
"The limited number of flight tests to date has indicated that the Discoverer satellite will be a highly reliable and effective system from which the ARPA and the Air Force expect to gain valuable additional knowledge of outer space. The achievement of this high degree of reliability and effectiveness of the satellite means that each of its subsystems must, in fact, be even more reliable and effective. The Discoverer guidance and control system is meeting their specifications because of the simplicity of the over-all design-simplicity for reliability with sufficient sophistication to accomplish its mission effectively. The mission of the guidance system is that of providing adequate attitude, velocity, and time references to guide the satellite into a desired orbit, to control its attitude on orbit, and to provide switching in the proper sequence for certain principal satellite functions. The mission of the control system is simply that of positioning the vehicle in the proper attitude commanded by guidance. The investigations that were made and those which are being continued in the determination of the optimum configuration for the desired performance are described in some detail. The present system, is discussed, which comprises, for guidance, an inertial reference package, a horizon scanner, and a computer for grammar, and for control, both a hydraulic and pneumatic system. In summary, a typical flight of the Discoverer, from separation from the Thor booster until stabilization on orbit, is outlined and the functions of the guidance and control systems are described."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Contents of Volume MIL-3, 1959."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"This paper deals with the problem of airborne data collection from advanced ballistic missiles, sometimes called second generation ballistic missiles. Because of improvements in warhead technology, these advanced missiles have a much smaller warhead compartment than previous missiles of the same class. The airborne data collection system has on many previous R&D missiles normally occupied part or all of the warhead space. It becomes obvious therefore, that with a smaller and lighter warhead, more severe weight and space limitations on the airborne instrumentation will tend to exist than heretofore. Analysis of data requirements reveals that the reduction in the quantity and the complexity of measurements for solid propellant systems over that required on liquid propellant systems is not as great as one might easily assume. Data collection problems for the guidance and control system involve the transmission at a high repetition rate of pulse or digital data of extreme accuracy. Problem areas exist with analog to digital and digital to digital converters for use in monitoring and totalizing angular shaft motions associated with the guidance systems. Problems are also present with the encoding of serial pulse trains for transmission over existing telemetry systems. Proposed means for handling some of the pulse data collection problems are presented. A fundamental principle for use in the design of an airborne data acquisition system can be stated as follows: ``The nature and amount of the data to be collected should be a major determining factor of the overall system design."
"The high-speed, high-capacity automatic data handling system has been in the process of design and development during the preceding eighteen months. This paper is devoted to the salient system characteristics which now exist in the final system design. Certain of the operating characteristics which have been established as a result of several months of operation are reported. Emphasis is placed on the systems design features intended to make the over-all system appropriate for a high order of automatic operation."
"This paper is a survey of the Instrumentation and Range Safety System (IRSS) now under design for installation at Vandenberg Air Force Base (see Fig. 1). The Vandenberg Air Force Base will be used for launching intercontinental and intermediate range ballistic missiles, such as the Atlas, Titan, and Thor. These missiles, their launching pads and other associated information, are identified throughout the rest of the paper by the Air Force designation number. The number 65 identifies the Atlas; 68, the Titan; and 75, the Thor. The Vandenberg Air Force Base has been established in order to train Air Force crews in the launching of ballistic-type missiles and to establish an initial operating capability. Research and development will be provided only to the extent necessary to achieve the program. The range area is limited to the Vandenberg Air Force Base and the immediate launching facility, and does not include the area normally referred to as ``downrange''. The instrumentation System's basic function is to provide data substantiating the proper operation and reliability of the missile. The Range Safety System's basic function is to protect the life and property on and near Vandenberg Air Force Base."
"Filtering a set of (2N + 1) sampled data consists in taking a weighted average of these data. The operation can be compared to that of a linear transducer, characterized by its frequency response. The only filters discussed in this paper are those for which the weights are either symmetric or skew symmetric about the center weight. With these types of filters, it is possible to design low low-pass filters to determine means and trends, low-pass filters to smooth data, sampling filters for frequency analysis, differentiators, integrators, etc. It is shown that least square polynomial fitting and Fourier analysis of sampled data are particular cases of filtering. Power of filtering techniques and precautions to take in their use for data processing are discussed"
"A prime requirement in improving the nation's air traffic control system is the provision of frequent, accurate, and identified position information on all aircraft in the system. This presentation will describe a system which satisfies these requirements for all aircraft aloft on a single pair of radio frequency channels without intra-system interference. Flight tests of the radio communication portions of the system have been successfully completed."
"This paper describes the principle of operation of a new inertial instrument and the elements of a technique for making measurements using this instrument. This device measures certain spatial properties of the gravitational field, from which the direction of the vertical and altitude with respect to a nearby heavenly body can be obtained. An elementary treatment of the mathematics establishes the theoretical foundations for the instrument and also provides an indication of the effects of various classes of disturbing inputs. Some of the problems associated with the reduction to practice of the basic transducer are considered, and gross feasibility is established."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"The series circuit associated with the high current discharge (pinch effect) through a cylindrical tube filled with gas is analyzed from an energy viewpoint. The electromagnetic and mechanical energies, and their interconversions during the compression of the gas, are explicitly displayed and identified. As a consequence of the above analysis, the exact nonlinear circuit equation and appropriate initial conditions are then formulated. This equation, when coupled with the equation for the radial motion of the pinched gas, will yield an exact solution for the electromechanical interaction."
"Considerable differences of opinion have existed concerning the requirements for transmission of PCM information. Quite often, PCM has been accepted as a system inherently requiring wide RF bandwidths and correspondingly poor noise performance. This paper considers selections of RF parameters for PCM telemetry systems. It points out that if these parameters are correctly chosen, the bandwidths and sensitivity of a PCM system may be made comparable with those of other existing telemetry systems."
"The terminal-area air traffic control (ATC) operation is defined and a classification provided of its problem areas which demonstrates that the use of both general purpose computation and special-purpose data processing are indicated. The characteristics of the digital-computing equipment for the functions of tracking, scheduling, and guidance are described. The over-all capabilities of the system are presented, including a description of the facilities for entry, sensing, communication, and display of pertinent data."
"An intelligent comprehension of the rapidly expanding field of astronautics demands availability of ready reference sources of the latest terms which have a particular application in this field. The 9898th Air Reserve Squadron (R&D) of Eau Gallie, Fla., which has many active participants in the daily activities of the Air Force Missile Test Center at Patrick Air Force Base, Fla., and the Atlantic Missile Range, has been especially concerned both with the problems of understanding the expanding field of astronautics, and with its responsibility of passing on information on terms which its members are now using in their daily livelihood. The problem of developing a suitable glossary of astronautic terms was made a group project, and when the squadron members examined this problem, and completed their research and discussion, their decisions were submitted to designated leaders. Then the terms were analyzed with respect to peculiarity, and presence in lists of astronautic terms already available. The final list of terms presented here is regarded to be of sufficient interest to anyone having either present or future astronautic activities."
"A fast-rising, carrier quieted telemetry system has been developed which measures, to one microsecond, the time between events during the sled test destruction of an impacting missile. Because of the short transmission range expected during sled tests, reliable carrier quieting of the receiver is obtained with transmitters of power outputs under 100 mw. High speed of response is obtainable by the use of rapid on-off keying of the carrier and the use of receivers and pulse amplifiers of sufficient bandwidth. The timing information from the missile is read from a digital chronograph instead of being obtained by analyzing taped information."
"A completely transistorized radio transmitter and a receiving system are described operating at 104 mc. The weight of the transmitter is under two pounds without the use of miniature parts. Design is for transmission of up to ten channels with bandwidths of 250 and 1000 cps. The channel reported has a carrier frequency of 2100 cps and was tested for EKG recording. Satisfactory calibrated records were obtained while walking and while on treadmill."
"A brief description of the TLM-18 antenna, including a block diagram, is followed by operational examples of its use in tracking missiles to the limits of radio line of sight. Present abilities of the antenna are discussed, and points are cited to show where these abilities exceed, in some aspects, requirements for missile tracking. It is shown that the location of the antenna and the type modulation of the missile can have adverse effects upon smooth operation."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"This article was first given in a symposium at the California Institute of Technology on ``Realities of Space Exploration,'' showing as graphically as possible that space communication is practical, that the extrapolation of the state of the art is straight-forward, and that the real limitations are those of: 1) external noise, 2) handling an extreme volume of data, 3) certain relativistic effects (more distant future), 4) time, and 5) economics and money. These limitations, at present, indicate frequencies between 500 and 5000 mc, automatic data handling, an awareness that communications outside the solar system is presently impossible, an appreciation that time scales of many years are expected in development and flight times, and a surprising conclusion that space exploration will probably pay for itself."
"Characteristics of a feed that utilizes a unique method to produce a conically scanning main beam are discussed. Model and full scale test data are included to make the feed operation more clearly understood. Certain criteria such as gain, side lobe level, and polarization must be considered when designing a primary feed for a paraboloid reflector. Also, the automatic tracking requirement calls for some means of producing an error signal for given off-target angles. The feed discussed is a circular waveguide excited by orthogonal probes fed 90° out of phase to produce circular polarization. The electrical phase center of the feed is shifted around the focal point of the 60-foot diameter paraboloid reflector by rotating a hemispherical tapered-dielectric prism at the aperture of the waveguide. A ground plane around the waveguide mouth controls the illumination taper across the paraboloid aperture to yield equal E and H plane secondary beamwidths."
"The dynamic response of an averaging type FM discriminator to a general FM input is analysed on the assumption that the zero crossing of the input signal initiates impulses which are applied to a low pass filter. The boundaries between which the output voltage of that filter is varying are evaluated. The faithful decoding may start after an initial settling-down period which is often found to be short compared with the actual period of the measurement. In order to show the practical use of the result obtained, two examples are given which deal with a linear and a parabolic change of the frequency with time."
"This paper describes a transitorized airborne PCM/FM data acquisition system. The prototype version of this system has, in the past few months, been subjected to a flight evaluation program, and the final version is now in the process of assembly and test. The system is primarily digital; however, the technical areas of switching and amplification of low-level analog signals will be emphasized and system aspects will be discussed. The airborne system is part of a larger system designed to provide an accurate and reliable means of collecting information from a large number of transducers during aircraft flight testing, and to transfer this information in the most efficient manner to a digital computer for final data reduction. The Airborne portion collects, stores, and transmits flight-test data in digital form to the ground control record station trailer which monitors the progress of the flight test. The recorded data is then carried to the computer station which organizes and controls the selection of data in a form compatible with the requirements of an IBM type 704 computer."
"This paper describes a system of data editing with provisions for computer entry of flight test data as acquired by an integrated digital data system. Also described are system concepts that must be dealt with in solving problems incident to these activities. The computer station described is provided with editing control facilities that permit selection of the desired prime and commutated channels which are essential for data reduction. The editing facilities provide for the most economic use of computer and manpower effort and are so designed that they permit convenient access to all instrumented channels. In addition, peripheral equipment is described as an aid in the editing process for examining the raw data in terms of analog. quick-look, and permanent record equipment."
"This paper discusses the approach used in the design of an automatic discriminator calibrator system. This design led to analysis of the use of bi-stable multibrators to obtain a fractional countdown of the output frequency of a crystal oscillator. The final counter waveform is filtered to extract only a sinusoidal component of the square wave from the counters. Some properties of fractional counters are discussed, including the use of a 382.5:1 counter in the calibrator system."
"The primary object of the work described in this paper is to establish and delineate a procedure for the calculation of certain errors associated with the performance of FM/FM and/or PAM/FM/FM multiplex telemetry systems. The errors considered are those that are produced in a channel of the multiplex resulting from arbitrary frequency and phase selective networks, and those resulting from the interference of adjacent channel sidebands with respect to an arbitrary channel center frequency separation. To find these errors, a straightforward spectral analysis and synthesis is developed for practical models of standard FM/FM and PAM/FM/FM systems. Expressions are obtained for the outputs of a multiplex for given inputs, and for non-linear distortion and adjacent channel interference, in terms of the conventional parameters of such systems. This method of analysis is entirely quantitative, and an effort has been made to develop it from a definite theoretical basis. Because the FM process is nonlinear, and since the purpose of this investigation has been the evaluation of system performance rather than analytical insight per se, automatic digital computation is contemplated throughout. Nevertheless, it has been found that the results of the work involved in 1) the justification of a system model, 2) the derivations of functions defining the operations of the components of the model, 3) programming the functions for numerical analysis, and finally 4) performing relatively economical experimental numerical adjustments of the model parameters, lead to a valuable physical appreciation of the system behavior with respect to prescribed conditions."
"The pending widespread use planned for PCM telemetry has caused some confusion in the area of PCM or digital standards. It is the purpose of this paper to discuss proposed PCM standards on a realistic basis and to show by example the organization of an integrated digital flight test system using these standards. Consideration is given to the variety of testing applications and ultimate usage of digital flight test data."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"The exploration of the moon is within view today. If it may be assumed that Project Mercury in the U. S. A. and similar efforts by the U. S. S. R. will establish that man can exist for limited periods of time in space, then a trip to the moon requires mainly the design, construction and proving of a large rocket vehicle. In one concept of a manned lunar vehicle, the entire mission, the trip to the moon and the return, is staged on the earth's surface. A highly competitive technique is to stage the lunar mission by refueling in a low earth orbit. This would permit the use of a smaller launching vehicle but would require development of orbital rendezvous techniques. This paper presents a parametric study of vehicle size for the direct-flight manned lunar mission. The main parameter is the take-off thrust which is influenced by many factors, principally the propellants in the several stages and the flight trajectory. A close choice exists in the second stage where conventional and high-energy propellants are compared. The size of the final stage and hence the entire vehicle is governed mainly by the method of approach to the earth's surface, whether the approach is made at elliptic, parabolic or hyperbolic velocities. The various design choices are applied to an illustrative vehicle configuration."
"The manifold aspects of plasma physics are briefly described. The basic science and advanced technology embodied in this interdisciplinary field are delineated following an identification of what constitutes a plasma. With regard to the former, such highlights as the evolution of the method of adiabatic invariants to deal with highly nonlinear properties of plasmas are offered. Hypersonics, high impulse fuel systems, the Sherwood program, nuclear explosives, and microwave tubes represent key areas in modern technology demanding more basic knowledge of plasma interactions."
"Using the techniques and philosophy of control systems theory, the phase-locked loop is analyzed as a conventional feedback loop. The root-locus method yields graphs which specify how the transient response changes with signal strength. This method also reveals two thresholds which explain why a small change in signal strength or modulation may cause complete loss of detection. Charts show how the transients vary with various pole-zero patterns for both step and ramp inputs. The feedback equation shows why the phase-locked loop is an FM detector, and simplifies its design analysis to that of a simple audio network. The application of Wiener's criterion is simplified, and a new method of solution for the filter is presented which is applicable to almost any kind of signal. Because the phase-locked loop is nonlinear, there is no known solution for the filter except when the noise is white. The optimum transfer function may easily be reduced to the loop components. When used in an AM detector the phase-locked loop should be designed for minimum phase shift independent of the modulation."
"Radio-wave transmission from above the maximum-intensity ionospheric layer to ground surface locations beyond the direct line-of-sight distance is examined in this paper. Transmission involving penetration of the F-layer, and subsequent ground-to-F-layer reflections, is found to be more reliable than transmission, depending upon ducting either along the F-layer or between the E- and F-layers. At a frequency approximately three times the maximum plasma frequency (measured with respect to the transmitter location) transmission must take place in a direction along which the maximum plasma frequency increases. The transmission path is reciprocal. At a frequency approximately 20 per cent higher than the plasma frequency, transmission may take place along a constant or even slightly decreasing plasma frequency contour, but the transmission is severely attenuated."
"Following an introductory discussion of the interferometric method, the essential building block of an interferometric system, the interferometric link, is discussed, especially with reference to the transmit-receive problem and to the noise problem in a frequency tracking circuit. One form of phase-locked loop is discussed in connection with the latter. Several possible interferometric applications are listed and a table is presented in which an attempt has been made at estimating the essential parameters of each system."
"THE tracking of the lunar probe Pioneer IV is described. A number of different types of facilities were used for this purpose, using equipments of varying complexity from a 3-foot diameter antenna as launch instrumentation to the 250-foot antenna at Jodrell Bank, England. The Goldstone Lake, Calif. equipment, installed and used by JPL for tracking this vehicle is described. This consists of an 85-foot diameter parabolic antenna located on a polar mount. A phase-locked receiving system was used in conjunction with this antenna. Automatic, real-time data transmission was used between the computing center and some of the receiving stations. The extension of this three station system into a comprehensive network for the tracking of probe and satellite vehicles is described. The pertinent features of the stations that would form this network will be enumerated, ated, such as the effect of location upon efficiency of coverage for various types of orbits. The design of multipurpose equipment which can be of service to a number of programs is of importance. The gathering of both position and telemetry data is assumed for these stations."
"Exploring of space by means of space probes poses some challenging problems if all useful data acquired at the probe's location is to be made available on earth. There exists a monotonic relationship for every communication system between the received energy required per unit of received information. The quantity of received data can be increased by an increase in the received energy or more subtly by varying this monotonic relationship through the choice of a more efficient communication system. Proper screening and processing of data before their transmission can increase the amount of useful information received at the expense of other data not so valuable and can ease ground data handling problems. A telemetry system, entitled ``Telebit,'' which makes use of some of these principles, and is a forerunner to the application of others, is described."
"Deltamodulation is a simple binary pulse transmission method that can be readily adapted to transmit dc signal levels. It is particularly useful where only a few channels are to be sent, and where one per cent accuracy suffices. A signal-channel demonstration system has been built and tested. The high-speed limitation of such a system takes the form of a finite rate-of-rise, well suited to most telemetering. If, on the other hand, sudden large signal changes are expected, then the system may be modified accordingly. The modified system has the interesting property of giving accuracy varying exponentially with the pulse rate (as in PCM), but still without the necessity of framing the pulses."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"A small random-access memory using deposited magnetic thin films as storage elements, and with a cycle time of one microsecond, is described. Information is read from or written into the memory by linear or word selection techniques. The addressing, driving and sensing circuits are transistorized. The deposited thin films are 2000 Å thick, switch in 0.1 μsec and generate a 5-mv output signal in the sense winding. A sense signal is obtained of opposite polarity from a selected element when a ``1'' or a ``0'' is read out. A memory-plane wiring configuration has been selected which is least susceptible to noise."
"This article presents material that is new in three areas. First, a new logic system using directly-coupled unipolar transistors is analyzed. It is shown that unipolar transistors have important advantages over bipolar transistors in speed, tolerance of stray signals and noise, and device miniaturization. Second, devices of extreme miniaturization built by an integrated device design and using this logic system are described. Third, how the passive components of the system, in this case resistors, have been integrated into the semiconductor devices is described."
"The characteristics and switching applications of a developmental diffused silicon p-n-π-n triode are discussed. Although this unit is at present in a two-watt package, it is capable of handling short pulses of current of the order of 100 amperes. The electrical characteristics which consist of a low and high conductivity region (over 500 megohms and less than 1 ohm respectively), with an intermediate negative resistance region, are controllable by the base lead, and hence make it a flexible device for applications in the computer and communications fields. The theoretical and practical limitations are discussed. Experimental data covering current handling capabilities, frequency limitations and switching times are presented in conjunction with representative circuits. Two particular circuits discussed are an 80-ampere 500-mμsec pulse generator with rise and fall times in the order of 150 mμsec and 300 mμsec respectively, that can operate up to a kilocycle repetition rate, and a 4-ampere 60-mμsec pulse generator with a PRF of 100 kc. Other examples described include monostable, bistable, and astable circuits, as well as types of communication circuitry for a wide range of currents."
"An electro-optical shift register composed only of electroluminescent (EL) and photoconductive (PC) cells was designed and successfully operated. While its measured operating speed probably does not make this shift register currently competitive in high-speed applications, it is amenable to construction in an extremely small volume, and has certain other unique characteristics."
"A data-handling unit is described which permits binary or decimal arithmetic to be performed on data fields of any length from one to sixty-four bits. Within the field, character structure can be further specified: these processing entities, called bytes, may be from one to eight bits long. Fields may be stored with or without algebraic sign. On all operations, the relative offset or shift between the operand from memory and that from the accumulator can be specified. Besides the arithmetic operations, three new logical instructions allow any of the sixteen logical connectives of two variables to operate upon each pair of bits in the memory and accumulator operands. The variable field length, variable byte-size features, extend the use of connective operations to a surprisingly wide variety of logical, house-keeping, and editing tasks. These arithmetic and connective instructions are general and powerful programming tools which greatly simplify complex manipulations. Programming of typical tasks, with both the new instructions and with the instruction set of a conventionally-organized computer, has shown that the new set requires substantially fewer instructions to be written, stored, and executed. Furthermore, the new instruction set has considerably fewer distinct operations than the more conventional set. This is possible because the general-purpose instructions of the new set replace many ad hoc instructions which deal with pieces of instructions or data words, or which perform shifting, packing, or editing functions. The initial application of the variable field length data-processing unit is in the IBM Stretch computer."
"The improvement of reliability and availability through redundancy of entire machines rather than of components is investigated. An attempt is made to break down the cost of operating a digital computer, and to determine the relationship between cost and system failure. Three specific cases are discussed. Case 1: Where n machines are operated independently, processing the same input data. The output is taken from a single one of them; if this machine fails, the output is promptly switched to a machine which is operating properly. As soon as repairs can be completed, the machine which had failed is returned to operation. System failure occurs only when all n machines are in the failed condition at the same time. A penalty cost is assessed for system failure, this cost being proportional to the system down-time. Case 2: Where n machines are operated as in Case 1, except that any machines which fail are not returned to operation until the beginning of the next operating period. Penalty cost for system failure is assessed in the same way as in Case 1. Case 3: Where n machines are operated as in Case 2, but where the penalty cost for system failure is a fixed amount and is independent of the resulting down-time."
"A systematic digital computational method is given that involves the use of Boolean matrix equations for solving certain types of functional circuit design problems. Specifically, all sets of Boolean functions f1(A1, . . ., A1), . . ., fJ(A1, - . . ., A1) are found such that if circuits with these outputs are connected to a circuit that generates the known Boolean function F(f1, . . . , fJ, X1, . . ., XK), then the output will produce a given desired function E(A1, . . ., A1, X1, . . ., XK). Illustrative examples of the method are presented."
"A novel number system called the residue number system is developed from the linear congruence viewpoint. The residue number system is of particular interest because the arithmetic operations of addition, subtraction and multiplication may be executed in the same period of time without the need for carry. The main difficulties of the residue code pertain to the determination of the relative magnitude of two residue representations, and to the division process. A discussion of the arithmetic operations and the conversion process required to convert from a residue code to a weighted code is given. It is concluded that in its present state the residue code is probably not suitable for general purpose computation but is suitable for a special class of control problems. Further research in both components and arithmetic is required if a residue code suitable for general purpose computation is to be obtained."
"A list of about 400 references relating to magnetic memory and logic circuits has been made. The bibliography is divided into 19 sections. Several sections are devoted to the physical, magnetic, and switching parameters of magnetic materials. Other parts cover the circuit and logical aspects of using magnetic cores, plates, ``twistors,'' thin films, and transfluxors. Attention is given to the use of special memory techniques such as domain wall viscosity readout, cross-field effects, and circuits operated with RF carriers, The use of magnetic cores as half adders, gates, and shift registers is recognized in a separate section. A listing of sources of further information (conference proceedings, books, and other bibliographies) is included."
"This paper discusses the various factors affecting the resolution in saturation magnetic recording. The effect on the recording process of the B-H characteristics of the coating, coating thickness, record-head gap width, head-to-coating separation, self-demagnetization, and record-head residual magnetization are discussed. Equations are derived for the playback process relating the signal amplitude and pulse width to the coating thickness, head-coating separation, and effective gap width of the playback head. It is shown that the greatest improvement in resolution can be obtained by the development of an extremely thin coating with high ratio of coercitivity to remanence and having a rectangular B-H loop. The extremely thin coating will reduce the shortcomings of the record-head field pattern, the self-demagnetization effect, and the loss of resolution in the playback process."
"This report describes a static magnetic shift circuit and the logical connectives derived from it. The prime advantages of magnetic circuits are their low cost, high reliability, and ease of maintenance. The application of these circuits to the design of a card-to-tape converter is discussed."
"The paper describes a procedure for obtaining real and complex roots of algebraic equations with real or complex coefficients by the use of a repetitive differential analyzer. The procedure requires only operational amplifiers and ganged linear potentiometers. Differential analyzers are very suitable for solving algebraic equations since they permit visual checking of the procedure and make it possible to investigate how the roots of the polynomial are affected by variation of its coefficients. The procedure is not iterative."
"This paper describes the principles of operation and logical design of an analog-digital computer capable of simulating complex physical systems in real time. Information in the machine is represented by an analog voltage pulse and a digital number. Arithmetic operations are performed in time-shared analog computing components and conventional digital logical elements. A novel floating-point arithmetic feature is provided to extend the dynamic range of the machine variables. Instructions and constants are stored on a magnetic drum before computation begins. The instructions determine the sequence of computer operations, and both the instructions and constants are arranged so that random access to the drum is not needed. The programming techniques developed for the computer are described. The inherent simplicity of these techniques should permit engineers directly concerned with simulation to program their own problems for computer solution."
"A method is described for the electronic analog computer that will permit the determination of the vibration amplitude responses of a distributed system with structural damping to a random-noise excitation such as might be experienced by a missile structure accelerated by a jet propulsion system. There is general agreement among the investigators in the literature that structural damping is both frequency independent and amplitude dependent. Simulation of the structure by a method of normal modes permits the introduction of a discrete equivalent viscous-damping coefficient for each mode frequency, thereby effecting the frequency-independent characteristic of structural damping."
"One method of searching a system for optimum operating conditions is to evaluate system performance for many randomly-chosen combinations of the independent parameters. This paper explains the use of standard electronic analog computer equipment to accomplish such a search of a mathematical model quickly and economically. Gaussian noise sources generate values of the independent parameters and sample-hold circuits hold those values which give the best value of the optimization criterion. An application of the method to a production allocation problem is mentioned."
"Various analytic procedures have been proposed for minimum integral-square-error approximation of prescribed linear systems; however, they often involve computational difficulties. In the procedure developed in this paper, a group of N linear approximating systems with orthonormal impulse responses øn(t) are realized by operational amplifier circuits. When h(-t) forces the systems (h(t) is the impulse response of the prescribed system) it is found that their outputs at t = 0 are an, the coefficients in {see the Equation in PDF File} the approximate impulse response. The following points relative to the approximation procedure are developed: constrained and weighted integral-square-error approximations, derivation and realization of orthonormal functions, physical realization of h*(t), evaluation of error h(t)-h*(t), and analysis of computer errors. Several approximation examples are given."
"One of the major limitations of the electronic analog computer is its inability to perform directly an integration with respect to a dependent variable. This paper reviews the usual methods of overcoming this limitation, describes the results on an attempt to use Padé time-delay units in generalized integration, and presents the development of a new analog integrator based on a simple numerical integration formula. The integrator can be instrumented using standard analog computer components. The performance of the device is illustrated with several examples."
"A study of the motion of a fin-stabilized rocket was undertaken to determine the effect of perturbing forces on the trajectory. The mechanization of a complete problem for an analog computer to include small disturbing forces would result in trajectories which are essentially indistinguishable from the ``nominal'' or ``unperturbed'' case because of analog computer accuracy limitations. Instead, the equations of motion for the ``nominal'' case and the ``perturbed'' case, derived by first order ballistic perturbation theory, were solved simultaneously with the nominal solution providing inputs to the perturbed solution. The analog computer solution provided both the nominal trajectory and perturbations from this trajectory. To illustrate the method, the technique is applied to the two-dimensional motion of a rocket in the vertical plane and includes perturbations due to uncertainties in winds, atmospheric density, thrust malalignments, and stability margin."
"A simple scheme of switching triangular waves and measuring the average current through resistors into a low impedance summing point makes possible four-quadrant multiplication with four diodes, precisely adjusted resistors, and a means of measuring the current. A practical circuit utilizes one operational amplifier to obtain -(X+Y)/2 and a second such unit to measure the summing point current. Addition of four auxiliary diodes reduces circuit interactions and makes less stringent requirements on the diodes. A simple operational adjustment procedure is described. Also, a simple means for obtaining the precise resistance balance is outlined. Calibration does not depend upon triangular wave frequency or symmetry. The amplifiers are not required to handle the triangular wave frequencies."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"This paper consists of two parts. Part I, by Giguere and Jamison, discusses transistor circuits capable of regenerating 6.25-mμsec pulses at a 160-mc bit rate. Part II, by Noll, discusses techniques for multiplexing 16 digital signals with a 10-mc clock rate into a single signal with a 160-mc clock rate. Two methods of performing the regeneration function are presented. One method consists of dc level restoration for recognition of the signal and constant current coincident circuitry for the reconstruction of the pulses. The second method consists of operating on changes in the signal for pulse recognition and the use of a bistable circuit for pulse reconstruction. Timing in the second case is obtained by a constant current coincidence gate. Parallel-to-serial multiplexing techniques have been developed to combine sixteen parallel 10-mc clock-rate signals into a 160-mc clock-rate pulse train. The sixteen synchronous signals are applied to sixteen AND gates along with a 10-mc narrow gate pulse. The space separations of the resulting regenerated and timed AND gate output pulses is converted to time separation with only a small amount of signal loss. This is done by injecting the pulses at sixteen equally separated points on a broad-band delay line. Methods have been developed to reduce spurious responses resulting from multiple reflections on the delay line. The current mode transistor AND gates are suitable for AND/OR functions for individual 4-mμsec logic. The multiplexer may also be used as a piece of test equipment to generate repetitive 16-bit binary."
"An important step in the synthesis of sequential switching circuits is the assignment of binary variable states to represent internal states of the circuit. A formula is derived here which indicates the number of different assignments which can be made for flow tables having a given number of rows. There are only three essentially different assignments possible for a four-row table, and there are 140 for a five-row table."
"A technique is presented which yields a minimal-state machine satisfying a given set of behavioral specifications. The machine is constructed in the same manner as has commonly been done in the past in synthesizing a ``primitive flow table.'' This contribution consists, not in describing a new method of synthesizing machines, but in showing that a particular instance of an established method yields a minimal-state machine. It is shown that the basic synthesis technique may be slightly modified so as to be applicable to obtaining a minimal-state machine which has the stability condition desired when working with uncloked circuits."
"The reflected binary or Gray code has been used chiefly in analog-to-digital conversion devices because its code sequences, representing any two consecutive integral numbers, differ in only one digit. This paper presents a method for performing the arithmetic operations of addition, subtraction, multiplication, and division using a modified reflected binary code. The modification for integral numbers is essentially the addition of an even parity check bit to the Gray code representation. This facilitates both the arithmetic operations and the detection of errors-in the arithmetic process as well as in transmission. An adder using this code requires circuitry which is more complex than that of a conventional binary adder by a factor of about two or three. However, the adder can be used also for subtraction with little additional circuitry and without complementation. In applications where reliability requirements justify the extra circuitry needed for arithmetic error detection, the modified reflected binary code may compare favorably with the conventional binary."
"Thin films of Ni-Fe alloy may be prepared to be anisotropic and exhibit square-loop M-H characteristics. In films that are single-domained with flux changes involving only rotation of intrinsic magnetization controlled by cross-magnetization fields, very fast switching action can be obtained for storage and logic functions. Problems of coupling to the flux changes and interaction in an array of such films require study of the magnetic-field distribution. In the treatment given, a circular, single-domain, thin film is represented by a very flat oblate spheroid. The field distribution outside the spheroid is found by assuming that the magnetic properties are characterized by an intrinsic magnetization M constant in magnitude, but varies in direction depending on field and energy considerations. Calculation of the field distribution is given for a typical film with diameter to thickness ratio of 105. From the regions over which field changes are most significant, conclusions are drawn as to the proper size of sensing loops and spacing to avoid interaction during switching in film arrays."
"Electrodeposition of ferromagnetic materials on wire is a suitable way of producing magnetic storage elements. One form of this element, when placed under suitable torsional strain (i.e., as a twistor), has magnetic properties suitable for memory application. Through research into the electrodeposition process, a new device has been developed which requires no external stressing. This device has been designated as the ``bit wire.'' The materials possess the desirable temperature stability usually associated with ferromagnetic metals and exhibit a high signal-to-noise ratio. Both linear selection and coincident current memory arrays have been constructed with bit wire and plated twistors. The switching characteristics and drive requirements are similar for both materials. The significant difference lies in the fabricating technique, since the bit wire requires no stressing. Both devices are packaged, since undesired strains can change their properties. This problem has been minimized by plating the bit wire material on semirigid wire or tubing. The tubular structure offers other advantages, since additional sense, drive, or inhibit wiring may be threaded through the tube."
"The subject of this investigation is nondestructive readout of metallic-tape memory cores by the application of a magnetomotive force spatially in quadrature to the direction of remanent flux. A simple method of fabrication is proposed and empirical data for the design of the nondestructive read systems is obtained. The use of nondestructive readout is not limited to digital computer circuits and no attempt has been made to use this method in any particular application; an experimental shift register was built, however, to test the method in a practical application. The nature of the system permits high-speed low-current-level operation in either digital or analog applications."
"This paper describes techniques which take advantage of word arrangement to make possible large, high-speed magnetic-core memories at moderate cost. Economy is obtained by means of a two-coordinate selection system using diffused junction rectifiers as steering diodes. By taking advantage of the relatively slow recovery time of these rectifiers, automatic rewrite selection is obtained in a similar sense to that provided by a biased switch core. The familiar ``inhibit'' line is eliminated, reducing the memory array to a two-wire configuration. And finally, the customary core array geometry is rearranged to facilitate winding the digit wire as a balanced twisted-pair transmission line so as to eliminate the effect of post-write disturb."
"A large, high-speed random-access memory for the Brookhaven ``Merlin'' digital computer is described. This system employs barrier grid electrostatic storage tubes in a novel configuration yielding improved reliability. Basic design considerations are presented together with a description of circuitry and performance."
"The usefulness of large-capacity digital differential analyzers (DDA's) is severely hampered by the complexity of the scaling process. The scales needed for programming a DDA have to be compatible with the so-called ``equilibrium,'' ``topological,'' and ``boundary'' constraints, imposed by the construction of the analyzer and the nature of the problem at hand. Simultaneous trial-and-error satisfaction of all these constraints, to achieve optimal range and accuracy of computation, is practically impossible for any problem involving more than a few integrators. The paper shows how the scaling constraints can be organized in a matrix form, and how optimal scales can be produced in a systematic manner. The proposed scheme, which can be programmed for automatic execution, is adaptable for DDA's operating in conjunction with general-purpose digital computers."
"In April and May, 1959 an exchange of visits by computer experts took place between the U.S. and the U.S.S.R. This article will describe the series of negotiations which led up to this exchange and will also describe the visit of the Russian delegation to America. The visit of the U.S. delegation to Russia will be reported separately in a joint article edited by Willis Ware that will appear in the March, 1960 issue of these TRANSACTIONS."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"A basic circuit, consisting of a diode modulator controlled by the signal from a diode detector, may perform logical AND, EXCLUSIVE-OR and OR functions upon pulsed microwave signals. Pulse rates up to 500 mc have been used at a carrier frequency of 11,000 mc. To demonstrate that microwave circuits may be used for the regeneration and circulating storage of pulses, as well as for logic, a digital arithmetic unit has been built which multiplies two 8-digit binary numbers. Various forms of the basic circuit have been studied in operation."
"The properties of presently available components place special emphasis on two desiderata of logic design for use in a microwave digital computer: 1) Smallness of the number of active elements; 2) elimination of information-cycling paths having delay times comparable or short compared with the bit period, as in the conventional flip-flop. A logic design developed in response to these pressures is described in substantially complete detail. Property 1) is obtained by the use throughout of a multiplexing procedure such that the computer functionally (although not physically) resembles a number of nearly identical, and correspondingly slower, computers which are able to operate either independently or in concert."
"The ability of the Parametric Phase-Locked Oscillator (PLO) to detect, amplify, and store binary digital signals, in the form of two distinct phases of a carrier, makes it possible to use the device as the sole component in a digital computer system. The variable-capacitance version of the device operates readily at kilomegacycle frequencies, thus forming the basis of a digital computer at a kilomegapulse clock rate. In the present paper the results of an investigation of the behavior and possible applications of the variable-capacitance PLO are presented. The investigation was supported by experimental work with lumped-component variable-capacitance PLO's at 5 mc, and microwave variable-capacitance PLO's at 4 kmc. The steady-state behavior of the device is described; variations of the output voltage with pump voltage, loading, tuning and frequency variations are presented in the form of characteristic curves. Results indicate that the device is rather insensitive to reasonable changes in operating conditions and parameter values. The transient behavior of the PLO shows that the device can be switched in a number of different ways. Five such modes of operation are discussed; these are phase initiation, forced switching, burst generation, tri-stable operation and unconditional switching. Each of these modes has particular advantages for various applications. Switching times of the order of 3 to 10 cycles of the signal frequency are readily obtainable. The various modes of operation of the device suggest a number of applications both in logic and in memory."
"The parametric subharmonic oscillator operates by energy transfer from the pump frequency to the oscillator frequency through a nonlinear energy storage element-in the present case, the nonlinear capacitance of a semiconductor diode. This paper examines both the requirements on the diode for satisfactory performance in this circuit and the limitations on oscillator performance which arise from the nature of the semiconductor diode. The analysis shows that abrupt junction diodes must have a Q of at least four at the oscillation frequency if there is to be any useable energy transfer, and that graded junction diodes must have a Q of six. The time constant governing the rise of the envelope of the subharmonic waveform is a marked function of the stray capacitances; this function is examined in detail. The choice of bias voltage to obtain the fastest possible rise time involves consideration of the stray capacitance, the Q of the available diode, and limitations imposed by excessive pump power requirements. For negligible stray capacitance, it is shown that the subharmonic wave-form can rise by a factor e in 1.3 cycles of the subharmonic frequency for an abrupt junction diode, or in 1.9 cycles for a graded junction diode. The principles involved in the design of the semiconductor diode are examined and the choice of materials, impurity distributions, and fabrication techniques are discussed. A new diode encapsulation intended for direct mounting in microstrip transmission line is described. Measurement of appropriate diode parameters is vital to diode research."
"In a carrier-type digital computer system, binary information can be represented by the presence or absence of an RF pulse in a given time interval. Using strip-line printed circuit techniques and point-contact diodes, passive AND and NOT gates were constructed which operate with RF pulses of less than 2 mμsec duration (i.e., an effective pulse repetition rate of 500 mc), at a carrier frequency of 3000 mc. The basic gates were combined to form half-adders. Unlike other carrier approaches, these circuits keep the information in RF form through all steps of the logic operations; i.e., both inputs and outputs of all elements are RF pulses."
"It is possible to control the transmission of microwave power in a waveguide via external control of the dc bias on a semiconductor diode mounted across the waveguide in a direction parallel to the E field. The combination of a microwave detector with such a modulator affords a means whereby RF power in one waveguide can be made to control RF power in a second waveguide. In order to test the applicability of this circuit to binary logic functions, a regenerative memory loop has been constructed. Traveling-wave tubes were employed to raise the level of a controlled signal to that required by the detector. Using an X-band carrier, binary pulse stability was observed at pulse repetition rates of 685 mc."
"A MATRIX representation which is particularly useful for the linear analysis of circuits with time-varying parameters will be given and will be applied to the case of a variable capacitance transmission line. The line will first be treated on the assumption that only a signal and a pump frequency (2ωsignal = ωpump) are important, and the conditions which should be satisfied by the respective propagation constants if gain is to be obtained will be presented. If the line is assumed capable of propagating combination frequencies at a velocity close to that of the pump and signal, then the results may be drastically modified. In particular, we will consider the effect of the combination frequency ωsignal+ωpump. Also treated will be the case where all combination frequencies are allowed to propagate along a dispersionless line."
"Features of a large-scale digital computer with novel logical elements, the parametrons, are described. The machine, which is located at Musashino City, Tokyo, was named the MUSASINO-1, and has been in almost continuous operation since its completion in the spring of 1957. Primarily for scientific uses, it does arithmetic operations in parallel, and has a fast access memory of ferrite cores with nonrectangular hysteresis curve. Maintenance experience has indicated its extreme stability and low incidence of faults."
"The cold cathode counting tube, also called the decade glow transfer tube, is used principally in preset counter, timing and gating circuits. The number stored in the tube is often required to be recorded. This paper describes a technique whereby the content of the tube is recognized and read out through a carrier signal applied to the anode and 10 detectors connected to the 10 cathodes. The readout is of the nondestructive type since it does not alter the content of the tube. A large number of glow tubes can be conveniently read out in this manner simply by connecting all corresponding cathodes together. The carrier signal is then successively distributed to their anodes. An example of such an application is given where 19 channels of four glow tubes each are read into an IBM card punch."
"The block diagram of an idealized over-all error-correcting digital computer is presented. This computer has the property that during each unit time interval, it can correct the effects of a specific maxium number of transient-type component failures which might occur anywhere within it. Yet, all its combinational logic circuitry is only of the error-detecting type. The corresponding reduction in equipment that this design feature makes possible is achieved at the expense of the computer's having to sit idle during a large percentage of those time intervals in which component failures occur. In a sense, therefore, the computer utilizes a great deal of time-domain redundancy as well as equipment-domain redundancy. This paper discusses some of the design requirements that are involved in using this type of redundancy structure."
"This paper describes the system organization of a digital computer whose purpose is to activate simultaneously more than one cockpit of an operational flight trainer. The simulated aircraft are assumed to be all of the same type, but each is simulated independently. The computer is drum-sequenced and represents an application of the theory of multiple computers, since there are several different kinds of memories and more than one arithmetic unit in the system."
"The COordinate Rotation DIgital Computer(CORDIC) is a special-purpose digital computer for real-time airborne computation. In this computer, a unique computing technique is employed which is especially suitable for solving the trigonometric relationships involved in plane coordinate rotation and conversion from rectangular to polar coordinates. CORDIC is an entire-transfer computer; it contains a special serial arithmetic unit consisting of three shift registers, three adder-subtractors, and special interconnections. By use of a prescribed sequence of conditional additions or subtractions, the CORDIC arithmetic unit can be controlled to solve either set of the following equations: Y' = K(Y cosλ + X sinλ) X' = K(X cosλ - Y sinλ), or R = K√X2 + Y2 θ = tan-1 Y/X, where K is an invariable constant. This special arithmetic unit is also suitable for other computations such as multiplication, division, and the conversion between binary and mixed radix number systems. However, only the trigonometric algorithms used in this computer and the instrumentation of these algorithms are discussed in this paper."
"A special-purpose, binary computer called CORDIC (COordinate Rotation DIgital Computer) contains a unique arithmetic unit composed of three shift registers, three adder-subtractors, and suitable interconnections for efficiently performing calculations involving trigonometric functions. A technique is formulated for using the CORDIC arithmetic unit to convert between angles expressed in degrees and minutes in the 8, 4, 2, 1 code and angles expressed in binary fractions of a half revolution. Decimal-to-binary conversion is accomplished through the generation of an intermediate binary code in which the variable values are +1 and -1. Each of these intermediate code variables controls the addition or subtraction of a particular binary constant in the formation of an accumulated sum which represents the angle. Examples are presented to illustrate the technique. Binary-to-decimal conversion is accomplished by applying essentially the same conversion steps in reverse order, but this feature is not discussed fully. Fundamental principles of the conversion technique, rather than details of implementation, are emphasized. The CORDIC conversion technique is sufficiently general to be applied to decimal-binary conversion problems involving other mixed radix systems and other decimal codes."
"The general class of sequential machines defined by Mealy is investigated. It is found that any such machine can be identified with a set of machines of equivalent minimality. A procedure for developing the aggregate of all sets of gates for such minimal machines is evolved, and the problem of selecting components for constructing machines is discussed."
"A technique is presented for reducing an arbitrary machine S as much as possible to a machine T which can do everything (from the input-output point of view) that S can do. Since the technique is always applicable, it is more powerful (although more cumbersome) than the well-known merging technique. Several examples are given."
"Given a sequential switching function in the form of a flow table in which some of the entries are unspecified, the problem of reducing the number of rows in that flow table is extremely complex, and cannot, in general, be solved by any simple extension of the methods used for completely specified functions. An analysis of the problem is presented, and a partially enumerative solution is evolved. A rough indication of the efficiency of the given procedures may be obtained from the fact that these techniques have been successfully applied to approximately two dozen tables ranging up to about 15 rows. No solution required more than two hours."
"The bibliography which appeared in the June, 1958, issue of these TRANSACTIONS is extended to a total of 777 titles. The original format is retained, but in this supplement the scope of material is restricted to technical publications pertaining to the logical design of machines."
"A feasibility study of the use of an operational analog computer for solution of structural problems was undertaken. A beam problem and a rectangular multicellular structure problem were run to test the method. In this paper, which is a progress report, it is shown that the method is highly competitive with digital computer and passive-element computer methods for solution of any structural problem."
"The design of position and velocity servos used in analog computation and simulation for multiplying and function generation is considered. The important characteristics of potentiometers, gear train, motor, amplifier, and tachometer are defined and discussed. Nonlinear performance requirement, such as velocity and acceleration limits, overshoot for large step inputs, and static resolution, are defined in terms of component parameters. A minimum gear reduction ratio is determined on the basis of acceleration, frictional torque ratio, overshoot for large step inputs, or static resolution. Linear system analysis is made and related to system components and nonlinear performance; in particular, it is shown that static resolution is limited by servo amplifier bandwidth for given motor, potentiometers, and gear train. The selection of damping methods and the reduction of steady-state errors is described. An example design is considered."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover for this periodicale."
"In this paper we make a beginning in the hitherto unexplored problem of finding absolute minimal expressions of Boolean functions. We shall adhere to the notations and terminology introduced in our previous paper,1 which will be referred to as S. In the present paper, we shall find absolute minimals for Boolean functions whose point set complex consists of either one or two points. The case of one point is in Theorem 1, Section I. The case when the two points form a 1-cell is covered by Theorem 4, Section I which discusses an arbitrary dimensional cell. The case when the cell complex consists of two isolated points, the main theme of this paper, is dealt with in Section II."
"This paper discusses a generalized resistor-transistor logic circuit; i.e., the output produces a signal when any m out of the n inputs are ``on.'' Practical limitations such as using precision power supplies and components are discussed. However, for smaller values of n and m, circuits could be designed such that no special precision components and supplies would be required. Several practical circuits are worked out, including a two-transistor binary full adder, a three-transistor comparator and a one-transistor-per-bit-ring counter. These circuits, especially the first two, are uniquely simple and low in cost. They can be incorporated with other circuits to simplify a digital system. It is felt that with ordinary supplies (less than 5 per cent voltage variation) and 1 to 5 per cent resistors, these circuits can be designed to be very reliable as one would expect from conventional circuits. The slight increase in cost of power supplies and components, if any, is, in many cases, over compensated by the simplicity of these circuits. Experimental circuits employing germanium alloy junction transistors operate successfully at pulse rate up to 500 kc and an ambient temerature of 50°C."
"A method is presented which always yields a minimal state sequential machine satisfying a prescribed finite set of input-output sequences. An application is made to the case where a given sequential machine is to be reduced, by the merging technique, to a machine having the smallest number of states possible. Numerous examples are given."
"A model is presented which, when modulo addition is used, can be used to derive multiplication correction schemata for operands expressed in either the radix complement or the diminished radix complement code."
"An electronic voltage encoder has been developed which converts analog voltages to their corresponding parallel seven binary-digit representations at a 50-kc encoding rate. The encoder is capable of being time-shared by any number of 0-50-volt range inputs. Performance tests indicate that the present design may be capable of eight binary-digit conversions at encoding rates as high as 80 kc. Either more precise conversions or higher encoding rates may be obtained at the expense of the other by cascading more or less of the identical one-digit encoder stages which constitute the analog to digital converter."
"The addition of facilities to the SAGE system for control of a new defensive weapon, such as the BOMARC missile, requires extensive modifications to the SAGE computer program. To obtain a better understanding of BOMARC control problems, a program has been written for the IBM Type 704 computer to simulate the proposed employment of BOMARC in the SAGE system. Such a simulation is flexible enough to optimize and evaluate a large range of parameters. On three separate passes through the 704 (with tape storage of intermediate results) the program simulates radar, target, and missile performance, as well as SAGE tracking and missile guidance. A fourth program presents the desired output data in the form of frequency distributions and detailed results pertaining to selected target or missile tracks."
"This multiplexer can perform a common dynamic operation upon several sets of inputs utilizing equipment for one dynamic operation. The result of the multiplexing will yield the corresponding several sets of outputs as though each set of inputs were operated upon separately by the dynamic operation. This device is useful when the dynamic operation to be shared involves relatively expensive equipment such as electromechanical gear and/or electronic computing or measuring circuits. It is particularly useful to reduce the number of components required when implementing problems in a simulation laboratory."
"The problem of the interference caused by eddy current transients to the reproduction of recorded data is studied for single-pass magnetic recording systems of both the write-read and read-write variety. Signal-to-interference ratios are introduced for both modes of operation, and their variation is studied in detail. It is found convenient to introduce a dimensionless parameter a as a figure of merit for single-pass systems. This factor is a function of the velocity of the magnetic medium, the number of pulses that can be recorded per unit length, and the permeability, conductivity, and dimensions of the laminations of the recording head; it is equal to a=π2/6Nvμσd2. Brief consideration is given to the effect of certain practical system factors on the conclusions reached from the theoretical analysis."
"A combined analog-digital simulation of an air battle between an attacking bomber aircraft and a ground controlled interceptor, including the intermediate human radar operator, has been designed for the purpose of evaluating the effects of airborne electronic countermeasures upon a ground-based radar operator. Both real and nonreal time simulation are used in the experimental setup. The simulation encompasses as much as possible of the system as affected by the operators' performance in the hope that a systems measure could be obtained. It is hypothesized that probable success of the bomber is the systems measure of the effectiveness of the countermeasures."
"In order to sense the Professional Group on Electronic Computers' current position in the computing industry and in order for each member to assess his position within the Group, a second membership survey was completed in the Fall of 1958. The results of this survey are reported herein. Tabular data, bar graphs and salary curves are included to aid in assessment of the Group and an individual's position in the industry, particularly with respect to education, experience, field of endeavor, salary and geographical location."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Two machine-learning procedures have been investigated in some detail using the game of checkers. Enough work has been done to verify the fact that a computer can be programmed so that it will learn to play a better game of checkers than can be played by the person who wrote the program. Furthermore, it can learn to do this in a remarkably short period of time (8 or 10 hours of machine-playing time) when given only the rules of the game, a sense of direction, and a redundant and incomplete list of parameters which are thought to have something to do with the game, but whose correct signs and relative weights are unknown and unspecified. The principles of machine learning verified by these experiments are, of course, applicable to many other situations."
"Experimental transistors designed to operate above 1000 Mc are described and measurements of their electrical parameters discussed. The design is a diffused-base drift transistor structure with minimized bulk resistances and junction capacitances. Measurements of the short-circuit current gain (−h21p) with both emitter and collector reverse-biased, indicated that the passive circuit comprising extrinsic parameters only could produce a gain greater than unity. Interpretation of measurements using a simplified equivalent circuit shows that reduction of bulk resistances leads to an appreciable passive or feed-through current. An oscillator is described in which the transistors operated up to 1550 Mc."
"The Reynolds differential equation describing flow in a compressible lubricating film is developed. Important characteristics of such films are determined directly from the Reynolds Equation. Pressure, load, velocity, and geometry characteristics are presented for many compressible slider bearing films based upon computer solutions of a Reynolds difference equation as derived in Part II. Part III cites experimental verification of computer solutions and describes experimental techniques."
"This paper presents a finite-difference technique for obtaining approximate numerical solutions to the Reynolds partial differential equation of gas film lubrication theory. A digital computer program is described, and discretization errors and stability of the difference equations are discussed."
"The results of experimental measurements on pivoted slider bearings are presented, the experimental methods are described, and the experimental data are compared with data obtained from a numerical solution of the Reynolds differential equation for a compressible fluid."
"Some laboratory experiments were performed over a period of three years to provide design information for digital computer systems for error correction in aircraft navigation. In a simulated digital control loop, the operator observed crosshair error and fed control signals to the computer. The studies showed relationships between recovery time and solution rate, transmission delays, hand-control sensitivity, sampling rate, and scanning rate."
"An effort is made to improve the performance of the learning machine described in Part I, and the over-all effect of various changes is considered. Comparative runs by machines without the scoring mechanism indicate that the grading of individual instructions can aid in the learning process. A related study is made in which automatic debugging of programs is taken as a special case of machine search. The ability to partition problems and to deal with parts in order of difficulty proves helpful."
"In large-scale computers the details of data handling, such as indexing, transmission and ordering, may be performed either by programming or by built-in machine operations. An analysis of the most frequently performed functions justifies the expansion of single-valued index quantities to three-valued control words and the specification of built-in increment, count and refill operations to be used with these control words. STRETCH, the large-scale computer which is being developed by IBM for the Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory, provides these control-word functions for data-handling operations."
"A mathematical analysis is made of Land's recent experiments which showed that fully colored pictures can be produced by a two-color projection system. Although Land's results apparently had been at variance with the classical theories of color perception, it has now been found possible to explain the experiments within the framework of those theories and in conjunction with well-known phenomena in the field of experimental psychology. The results are interpreted in terms of a mechanism of color transformation."
"An algorithm is given for solving a general problem in combinational switching-circuit minimization theory. The circuits considered consist of a disjunction (OR-ing together) of trees of any set of logical elements, with the restriction that in any given tree no input appears more than once. To each logical element is attached a positive cost. A method is presented for designing a minimum-cost circuit of this variety for any given logical function. Two parallel treatments are given, one viewing it as an abstract mathematical problem, the other considering it as an engineering problem."
"A velocity-modulated electron-beam microwave tube is described which can be operated as a frequency divider. Its operation is analyzed in terms of velocity-modulation bunching theory, neglecting space-charge forces. Because of the existence of two stable states opposite in phase, such a divider can be advantageously employed in a microwave logical system. The transient behavior of the device is discussed, particularly with reference to the time required to switch the device from one of its stable states to the other. Factors involved in the minimization of this time interval are analyzed."
"A continuous problem, defined as one involving derivatives or integrals, is to be reduced to a discrete problem, involving only algebraic or evaluative operations. An approach involving cells instead of points is taken, and the unknown function is approximated by functional representations, each associated with one cell and an associated set of parameters. Suitable operations are then defined, each associated with a particular cell. These operations remove the configuration coordinates from the problem, leaving only the parameters. Similar operations are defined which link the approximations in adjacent cells, and which translate certain interface conditions to relations between parameters associated with cells. The entire set of relations is then the equivalent of the usual difference equations. A variational algorithm is introduced in order to circumvent certain difficulties associated with matching equations and unknowns. This also permits the convenient retention of certain “exact conditions” associated with the continuous problem. Some illustrative examples are given."
"Tunneling, between propagating electron states, at a semiconductor junction is discussed in terms of customary quantum transition theory for the matrix elements of the hamiltonian between the states representing reflection of an electron (in either band) from the junction. The coordinate representation for the wavefunctions of these states is investigated, and tunneling probabilities (ratios of transmitted to incident current) are found for the “elastic” process proposed by Esaki and for the “phonon-assisted” processes. It appears that the tunneling may be described as taking place in a central region of the junction thinner than the space charge region. Current-voltage characteristics are calculated both for elastic and for phonon-assisted tunneling."
"The use of the negative-resistance diode discovered by L. Esaki1 (sometimes referred to as the tunnel diode) in very-high-frequency oscillator circuits employing wave guides and cavities as tuned elements has met with difficulties as a result of so-called parasitic oscillations that arise from the necessity of driving the circuit from a very low-impedance dc source.2 This communication describes a different design approach, based on lumped-parameter principles, which is free from this type of biasing problem. This approach has produced oscillators which operate well into the microwave region (3000 Mc) where it has not previously been thought profitable to employ only lumped-parameter elements."
"From ferromagnetic resonance experiments and from calculations based on the modified Landau-Lifschitz equation, switching times for the coherent rotation of the magnetization in thin, permalloy-type films have been predicted to lie in the range of 1 mi1limicrosecond.1 First measurements by D.O. Smith et al,2 utilizing a travelling-wave oscilloscope with a response time of 2 mµsec, indicated switching times of about 3 mµsec. In this communication, first results of advanced millimicrosecond measurements are reported. These were obtained by using special pulse equipment including a sampling oscilloscope,3,4 with an over-all response time of about 0.5 mµsec. Flux changes as fast as 1.5 mµsec could be observed, for not only the longitudinal flux component,5 but also, for the first time, the transverse one."
"This note describes a germanium PNPN switching device with thyratron-like characteristics. Unlike other four-layer switching devices described recently in the literature, this device does not rely on alpha-variation for switching. Its alpha is essentially constant and large enough to make the device regenerative. The device is normally biased “off” and it may be switched “on” by a signal which momentarily overcomes the bias."
"This paper describes a program which will enable a complex digital data processing system to give “first aid” to itself. Ordinarily, when an error occurs during system operations, the computer must be stopped for corrective maintenance. The FIX program, however, automatically compensates for computer malfunctions so that recovery from errors may be effected with a negligible loss of operational time. Some equipment features used by the FIX program are briefly outlined prior to a detailed discussion of the structure and function of the program itself. In its initial application in the SAGE system, FIX provided automatic recovery from more than 90% of all failures occurring during the period studied."
"Perturbation methods are applied to the problem of calculating the attenuation of signals consisting of compensated space charges moving in an electric field of general, but prescribed, form. Asymptotic formulas for attenuation and phase shift are derived which apply when the diffusion currents giving rise to attenuation are small compared to the field-induced currents. Alternate expansions of the continuity equation, e.g., in terms of the frequency, are discussed in a mathematical appendix."
"The amount of diffusion attenuation has been computed as a function of frequency for the case of uniform electric field. Application to drift transistors is discussed."
"Hamming considered the problem of efficient, faultless transmission of binary data over a noisy channel. For a channel which corrupts no more than one binary digit in each sequence of length n, he constructed alphabets, the so-called Hamming codes, which permit error-free signalling. The authors study the analogous problem for channels which can corrupt a greater number of digits. Non-binary channels are also studied, and analogues of the Hamming codes are constructed. It is perhaps of interest that some of the techniques employed derive from algebraic and analytic number theory, mathematical disciplines not generally associated with the type of applied problems considered in this paper."
"An exact electrical analogue is given for the thermal system between the collector junction and the constant-temperature environment of a transistor. For this circuit analogue, the voltage response to an applied current is equivalent to the temperature response of the collector junction to an applied-power dissipation. The objective of this paper is (1) to prove that this thermal equivalent circuit is entirely consistent with the rigorous, academic approach to the problem, which is to solve a boundary-value problem for heat flow in the transistor system; (2) to present an experimental method for obtaining the circuit parameters in the thermal equivalent circuit; and (3) to demonstrate the utility of the thermal equivalent circuit for the circuit designer and the transistor designer."
"The efficiency of a logical element can be equated with the set of subfunctions it realizes upon biasing or duplication of inputs. Various classes of elements are considered, and optimum or near-optimum examples are presented. Some related areas of study are suggested."
"An analytical procedure for determining adequate stock levels for an inventory system with random demand and replenishment functions is presented."
"Probability functions are defined for use in reliability studies of equipments which are maintained over a long period of time through replacement of components. These are: lifetime distribution function, lifetime density function, probability of survival, hazard, expected number of replacements, and renewal rate. Theoretical results of renewal theory are adapted to reliability studies of complex systems."
"An experimental low-cost system was designed to determine speed and reliability limitations on transmitting binary data over private telephone lines. A brief review of alternative approaches is given, with a description of the laboratory model. Performance of the equipment is reported with the reliabilities experienced at 600, 1000, 1600, and 2400 bits per second."
"Metallographic examination is an important tool for the control of heat treating of metals and alloys. The primary function of heat treating is to change some properties of metals and alloys favorably by altering the crystal and grain structures. Precise determination of the internal structure is an important guide for the control of the various treatments."
"Three mechanisms of flux reversal are proposed for the flux reversal in square-loop ferrites, each mechanism being dominant over a certain region of the switching curve. A coherent rotational model is proposed, and experimental evidence supporting the mode yields the lowest values of switching constants for ferrites reported to date. Details of this work, including studies of several ferrites and of dependence on temperature and ceramic process variables, are to be published."
"In the dynamical theory of the anomalous transmission of x-rays through perfect thick crystals, the ratio of transmitted intensity to incident intensity depends upon [1 − Kf″Ge(θhkl)/f″Ge(0°)] exponentially. Here K is the polarization factor and the f″Ge(θhkl) and f″Ge(0°) are the imaginary parts of the atomic scattering factors of germanium at the angle θhkl and 0°, respectively. This paper describes the measurement of the ratio f″Ge(θhkl)/f″Ge for several different sets of planes in nearly perfect germanium crystals."
"Finite automata are considered in this paper as instruments for classifying finite tapes. Each one-tape automaton defines a set of tapes, a two-tape automaton defines a set of pairs of tapes, et cetera. The structure of the defined sets is studied. Various generalizations of the notion of an automaton are introduced and their relation to the classical automata is determined. Some decision problems concerning automata are shown to be solvable by effective algorithms; others turn out to be unsolvable by algorithms."
"Interatomic-force constants may be predicted from standard central-force laws using thermodynamic data. For the three cases where diffraction data are available (aluminum, copper, and iron) the predicted values agree within an order of magnitude for aluminum and iron, but differ strongly in the case of copper. It is suggested that Jacobsen's α1, for copper, represents the strongest departure from a central-force model and should therefore be the most promising point for further theoretical work."
"A rigorous solution is given for the superconducting transition of a semi-infinite slab held at a point below the critical temperature Tc when a constant magnetic field above the critical value Hoc is applied. The solution accounts for both the absorption of latent heat and the dissipation of eddy-current heat during the transition. A numerical example is calculated for the case of constants close to those of tantalum."
"A study is made of the effect of geometric factors and field orientation on the superconducting transition of bulk material whose dimensional ratios are comparable to those of thin evaporated films. An expression is derived for an effective demagnetizing coefficient in the direction of the applied field for an elliptic cylindrical superconductor, and it is shown that this deviates from 1 by quantities of the order of 10−2 or smaller for experimentally realizable conditions with typical films. These small coefficients give rise to surface fields sufficiently large for transition to the intermediate state. The shape of the transition for various field orientations has been obtained experimentally, and these curves are analyzed qualitatively on the basis of Landau's and Andrew's theory of the intermediate state. For temperatures below the transition point, and in the absence of fields other than the earth's magnetic field, the possibility that these films are in the intermediate state is explored."
"Rational Padé approximations to Sin N in the interval 0 ≤ N ≤ 41π/256 and to Cos N in 0 ≤ N ≤ 87π/256 allow the computation of both functions in 0 ≤ N ≤ π/2 with the first ten correct significant digits in four multiplications and divisions only. If the infinite range 0 ≤ N ≤ ∞ is considered, one more multiplication reduces it to the range 0 ≤ N ≤ π/2 so that the total number of operations is five. The method is flexible and gives any desired accuracy. Thus if eighteen first correct significant digits are required, they are obtained in seven operations for any N in (0, ∞). The same method applied to √N and 3√N yields a very accurate first guess which then is improved by Newton's method. For the radicals m√N with m > 4, Newton's method is too slow, and rational Padé approximations studied in this paper yield better subroutines."
"Ferrimagnetic resonance has been observed in single crystals of gadolinium-iron garnet at 9479 and 23,725 mc. The resonance behavior is discussed in terms of a two-sublattice theory. The gadolinium g-factor is equal to 2.006 above −90°C and increases at lower temperatures. The gadolinium ions contribute to the anisotropy below −40°C. The assignment of separate damping constants to each sublattice explains the sharp variation in over-all damping with temperature near the compensation point."
"Two types of codes for checking logical operations digit by digit on two vectors of binary digits are studied. The first type attaches a check symbol to each vector of binary digits and requires that the check symbol for the logical function of two vectors can be determined from the check symbols of the two input vectors. The second type of coding is ordinary block coding into vectors of binary digits, with the added requirement that the coded vectors be processed digit by digit. The constraints on the codes resulting from the assumptions for the coding system are studied by typical algebraic arguments. It is shown that for both types of coding and for all nontrivial logical functions of two variables, except “exclusive or” and its complement, there is no system of checking simpler than duplication. For “exclusive or” and its complement, group alphabets can be used, and for the block coding these are the only codes which can be used."
"The Moore-Shannon model for switching circuits is extended to show how the number of redundant relays needed to improve reliability depends on the logical function of the entire circuit. The reliabilities of and, or, and exclusive-or relay circuits are studied as a function of the number of relays, the network topology, and the distribution of inputs. For the case of intermittent failures, a procedure is developed for calculating the reliability of combinational switching circuits, defined as the probability that the circuit will function as specified, averaged over all possible inputs, and subject to the idealizing assumptions of the Moore-Shannon model. The redundancies required to achieve a specified increase in reliability, although considerably smaller than for alternative methods, are still enormous. It is shown that a good way to improve an and circuit, for example, is to use a series-parallel network in which the number of parallel lines varies with the logarithm of the number of basic and circuits connected in series to form each line."
"Usually Laplace's equation ▽2ψ=0 (or Poisson's equation ▽2ψ=F) must be solved with conditions given all around the boundary of the region in question. Yet in such specific engineering problems as the design of electron guns,1, 2 solutions are sought in an open region with the Cauchy boundary condition.** With Cauchy conditions, Laplace's equation is “unstable” in that an exponential growth of errors occurs during numerical analysis by methods of finite differences. An expression that gives the order of magnitude of the propagated errors could therefore be of considerable value as a “rule of thumb” where these methods are used, particularly for digital computer programmers. This communication explains how this “rule of thumb” has been obtained."
"Two superconducting oscillators have been reported in the patent literature. F. E. Steele* of the Northrup Aircraft Corporation developed an oscillator based on a superconducting tank circuit. The device is characterized by high stability and low-energy outputs. Another oscillator was developed by E. A. Ericsson† of Sweden. This device also uses a tuned circuit but it is somewhat more complicated in design. The oscillator described in this communication, however, is much simpler in design than either of these and is based on a relaxation process in the transition between the superconducting and conducting phases of a Pb film."
"The subject of this note is the extension of the Nyquist theorem, which relates the electrical noise in a conductor in thermal equilibrium to the Ohmic conductivity,1,2 to the “hot electron” situation in which there is a steady electric field E strong enough to disturb the distribution of electrons among Bloch states and for which the steady current density J will not in general be proportional to E.3 For simplicity, we discuss the fluctuations of velocity, v, for a single electron. For a steady state the time average, equation, of a function ψ of the electron's state is the same as the ensemble average at any instant over all N electrons in the body: ψ̅ = ifψ ψ (ψ)."
"Constantine* describes a novel load-sharing matrix switch in which the input winding pattern allows the selection of a single core, while ideally all other cores have zero net excitation. These patterns realize 2n−1 outputs with 2n inputs, the inputs being grouped in 2n−1 complementary pairs"
"It is known from the transformation theory of matrices that normal matrices can be brought to thed iagonal form by means of a similarity transformation. On the other hand, any diagonal matrix possesses linear elementary divisors exclusively. Since elementary divisors are unaltered by similarity transformations, it follows that normal matrices have linear elementary divisors only."
"Rabin has proved1,2 that two-way finite automata, which are allowed to move in both directions along their input tape, are equivalent to one-way automata as far as the classification of input tapes is concerned. Rabin's proof is rather complicated and consists in giving a method for the successive elimination of loops in the motion of the machine. The purposeo f this note is to give a short, direct proof of the result."
"This chapter contains sections titled: Half Title, Technology Press Research Monographs, Title, Copyright, Foreword, Preface, Contents"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Classification of Two-Terminal-Pair Amplifiers, Optimization of Amplifier, Indefinite Case, The Optimum Noise-Measure Expression for the Conventional Low-Frequency Vacuum Tube, Optimization of Negative-Resistance Amplifiers, Definite Case"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Extended Definitions of Gain and Noise Figure, Matrix Formulation of Exchangeable Power and Noise Figure, Noise Measure, Allowed Ranges of Values of the Noise Measure, Arbitrary Passive Interconnection of Amplifiers"
"This chapter contains sections titled: General Matrix Representations, Transformation from One Matrix Representation to Another, Power Expression and Its Transformation, The General Characteristic-Noise Matrix"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Derivation of the Canonical Form, Interconnection of Linear Noisy Networks"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Matrix Formulation of Stationary-Value Problem, Eigenvalue Formulation of Stationary-Value Problem, Properties of the Eigenvalues of the Characteristic-Noise Matrix in Impedance Form, Lossless Reduction in the Number of Terminal Pairs"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Impedance-Matrix Representation of Linear Networks, Lossless Transformations, Network Classification in Terms of Power"
"SUBMERGED-arc furnaces have been in commercial operation for more than 50 years. However, the literature tells little about what they require from the supplier of the electric energy or what effects they have on the supply system. A silicon-smelting furnace is typical of these operations. In fact, this process is generally considered to be one of the most exacting in its demands for precise operation to prevent undesirable performance of the furnace and unreasonable demands on the electricity supplier. This paper presents information on the electrical performance of such a furnace."
"THERE are two principal methods of separating suspended particles from air: mechanical separation and electrostatic precipitation. Mechanical separation includes dry-type filters, cyclones, water scrubbers, and gravity settling chambers. Dry-type filters are commonly used in air conditioners. Mechanical separators depend on inherent differences in size and density existing between particles and the gas in which the particles are suspended. In contrast, electrostatic precipitators cause a difference between properties of particle and gaseous medium; that is, either the particle is charged in an ionizer1 or, without an ionizer, the particle undergoes polarization in the field existing between charged plates of the precipitator."
"THE SUCCESSFUL application of cathodic protection to undergound structures in the crowded confines of a large metropolitan city presents problems of cathodic protection co-ordination certainly more acute and perplexing than those ordinarily encountered in crosscountry work. It is frequently very difficult to find a suitable location for a ground bed in a particular area requiring protection."
"THE d-c variable voltage drive for diesel or gas-electric drilling rigs has gained considerable popularity since the introduction of lightweight low-cost electric equipment. However, quite often not sufficient advantage has been taken of the intermittent capability of the generators and motors, both from an application and operational standpoint. This paper presents information derived from an analysis of actual operating test data which should assist users, rig builders, and operators in applying and operating electric drives more effectively on drilling rigs."
"IN THE 60-cycle field of induction heating a 3-phase system is desirable. The advantages of 3-phase power is fairly obvious. In most cases a large amount of power is required and a balanced 3-phase load is very practical. Hence, 3-phase induction heating coils have been used to a large extent in 60-cycle heating of aluminum and brass. Since the size of stock to be heated is large in cross section, which is the primary reason for 60 cycle, the amount of energy required to heat the material because of its large mass is, in many cases, quite high. In the past, large billets, 4 inches to 30 inches diameter of aluminum, as well as brass, 4 inches to 10 inches in diameter, have been heated primarily for extrusion. Temperature uniformity is mandatory for high-quality results. In the case of special brass alloys, the temperature must be maintained at ±10 F (degrees Fahrenheit) throughout the billet. Induction heating is primarily a very rapid heating process taking seconds or minutes to heat, while other methods of heating require hours. Because of this rapid heating, temperature patterns follow closely magnetic flux patterns; also due to the rapid heating, sufficient time is often lacking for equalizing."
"IT IS WELL KNOWN that relative motion between rubbing surfaces is opposed by friction forces. In general, a force directly proportional to velocity is produced by a component known as \"viscous friction.\" Normally, another component, the coulomb friction force C, produces a force that is essentially constant regardless of velocity. In addition, if the surfaces are initially stationary, the force required to start motion is greater than the coulomb friction force. Since the surfaces seem to adhere, the effect is called \"stiction\" and the magnitude of the required starting force is called the stiction force S. These effects are illustrated graphically in Fig. 1. Note that the ordinate may be force or torque, and the dimensions of C or S obviously must be adjusted as needed."
"EXPERIENCE obtained on constant-frequency generation systems which are installed in jet aircraft has indicated areas where improvements are needed. Examples are:"
"Variable-speed constant-frequency (vscf) generator systems are studied as an extension of well-known vscf motor technology. The vscf generator systems become practical for aircraft main generating systems when the commutator function is performed by semiconductor devices. It is concluded that the best scheme for this application is one using as the main generator a wound rotor induction machine operated above and below synchronous speed, and a slip channel comprised of a semiconductor frequency changer and a synchronous machine driven by the variable-speed shaft."
"THE TREND of electric loads on mobile equipment has been upward at an ever-increasing rate since the first generators were installed on automobiles in 1909."
"THE USE of a diesel-electric locomotive booster unit in conjunction with one or more straight electric locomotive units was conceived to meet specific requirements of heavy freight train operation on the electrified Rocky Mountain Division of the Milwaukee Road; see track profile, Fig. 1."
"EVER since the advent of a-c systems in aircraft, designers have been increasingly led to consider methods of obtaining constant frequency from variable-speed sources, as the aircraft engine is usually at least two to one in speed range. The first device to obtain constant speed from a variable-speed source was under development for many years, and it is only recently that it has been considered reliable enough for general use. Fortunately, the timing has been good, since the very large increase in aircraft electrical loads has coincided almost exactly with the availability of this device. Of course, the large increase in electrical loads has led to the proposal of many devices either to provide constant speed to drive a generator, or to obtain constant frequency directly from a generator driven at a variable speed."
"IT CAN logically be assumed that within 5 years it will be possible to project into orbit a 20,000-lb (pound) vehicle, five times as heavy as the largest satellite now in orbit. This payload capability is a necessary intermediate step in the long-range program leading to manned space flight."
"AS AN initial step toward the eventual realization of a completely static system for converting solar radiation to electric power, the analysis and testing of a laboratory thermoelectric generator has been undertaken. A description of the over-all project is given in reference 1. An essential part of the over-all system is the combination of reflector and absorber used to collect and concentrate the solar radiation. This paper deals with the geometrical optimization of the reflector and absorber."
"The principle of nonlinear optimum response control has found a new and unique application in the development of a standard controller. The transistorized controller can work in a great variety of feedback systems because it has negligible time delay. Optimum response to a specified step input can be obtained very easily by experiment because linear switching is used. The response is still nearly optimum when the input is not of the specified form and magnitude, or when the system parameters change with environmental variations. Solution of practical problems in the development are discussed in the paper. A mathematical proof is given to show that optimum response to a specified step input, for the systems under consideration, can always be obtained with linear switching."
"With the coming space age, considerable attention is being focused upon the problem of supplying secondary power to the vehicles of the future. It is anticipated that future space vehicles may perform missions which will require months and perhaps years to complete. Requirements for the secondary power source serving these vehicles will be very stringent. Weight will be at a premium, therefore, the unit must have a high power-to-weight ratio. Reliability must be high but must be accomplished with little or no maintenance and without excessive redundancy. The life expectancy must be high."
"VEHICLES traveling at hypersonic velocities in a gaseous atmosphere will be surrounded by a shock-induced high-temperature sheath. As a result of the high temperature, the gaseous sheath has an electron density greater than that of the ambient atmosphere. Since the craft will be immersed in a high-temperature envelope, both it and its components will be subjected to unusual temperatures. Fig. 1 indicates the way in which the air temperature and density varies from the shock front to vehicle surface for a given velocity and altitude."
"THE COMPLEXITY of present-day high-performance aircraft and missiles is demanding better reliability of its various subsystems. A considerable amount of the equipment, such as guidance and flight control equipment, depends entirely upon the electric power system. Therefore, the electric power system is of primary importance in the over-all reliability of the aircraft."
"A WESTERN refinery was adding a new catalytic reformer unit to existing facilities. The chemical process involved, which had a platinum catalyst worth $250,000 in suspension, was dependent upon mechanical power to a compressor. This was a vital drive where loss of mechanical power for a short time meant loss of the catalyst as well as loss of production."
"THIS PAPER applies the theory of heat flow to finding the steady-state temperature in excess of the surrounding iron. The ribbon coils may be either copper or aluminum, and may be either two or four in number. The magnets considered are large magnets of circular cylindrical shape such as lifting magnets."
"CALCULATION METHODS for predicting the performance of 3-phase 4-wire induction motors operating on nonsymmetrical systems are not generally known. Equivalent circuits and calculation procedures for polyphase motors with floating neutral have been available for some time."
"IN THE DESIGN of high-performance feedback control systems it is necessary to consider simultaneously both the frequency and the transient response. Several methods have been developed to this end.1,2 The method proposed in this paper also operates in terms of both frequency and time domains, but it still permits the entire process to be effected in the real domain, thus greatly simplifying the practical application."
"WITH THE USE OF the method presented in Part I,1 it is possible to develop several suitable procedures for the analysis and synthesis of feedback control systems. The purpose of all these procedures is to reduce the characteristic equation to a form where the unknown parameters would take part only in the co-ordinates of the working point M(a1, a0). It is thereby achieved that changes in the values of parameters affect only the position of the working point and not the shape of the curve Tƹ. As a consequence, it is possible to estimate almost instantaneously all roots of the characteristic equation for any set of values of the unknown parameters and to select the latter without difficulty."
"EXCEPT FOR some special methods, two main approaches are possible in the analysis of sampled-data feedback control systems: 1. Analysis in p plane, p being the complex variable of Laplace transformation;1 and 2. Analysis in z-plane, z being the complex variable of Z-transformation.2"
"THE OBJECT of this paper is to present a formulation of the dynamics of complex aircraft electromechanical systems using analytical representations of components suitable for analog computation. The ability of the computer to predict system performance as well as to provide a means for system analysis and synthesis is demonstrated by correlating the results of equipment tests and computer simulation tests in the case of the parallel a-c electrical generating system used in the B-47 type of aircraft. This comparison is made to insure that all relevant information has been included in the simulation and that the simplifying assumptions adopted in the analysis are reasonably warranted. The approach used to set up the representations is detailed and generalized, with emphasis on the development of an organized procedure for studying complex aircraft electric systems rather than on providing the simplest system representation which may be valid for just one particular case. A system representation using a cascaded sequence of linear gains and time constants with associated feedbacks can give but a crude indication of actual system performance. Similarly, a representation of the dynamics of parallel alternators in terms of equivalent masses and springs, or one using the ordinary stability criteria developed for central station practice, is inadequate."
"AN electronic tramp-iron remover for chopped hay in pneumatic conveyors has been previously described for application in fixed installations such as barns or feed-mills.1,2 When green chopped hay is fed, however, a field harvester is the only machine that handles the hay pneumatically. The tramp-iron remover can be adapted for use on a field harvester to make a self-contained unit that is in some ways simpler than the one described earlier for fixed locations."
"THE possibilities of artificially increasing the comfort, or, more correctly, the efficiency of use of feed by farm livestock, are great. The range of optimum temperatures for laying hens is 55 to 65 F (degrees Fahrenheit), for dairy cows 50 to 60 F, and for swine 65 to 75 F. Size and age of animal, sex, coat, etc., are all related to its ability to resist high or low temperatures. Adverse effects are apparent sooner from high than from low temperatures; in general, livestock are considered to be depressed by temperatures over 75 F."
"The phase plane is used to solve second-order sampled-data feedback systems which contain a relay and zero order hold circuit. The relay quantizes the signal applied to the linear part of the system and each quantization level gives rise to a corresponding set of trajectories in the phase plane. Between sampling instants the output moves along one of these trajectories; however, the error signal which is applied to the relay depends only on the output and input at the end of the sampling interval, i.e., at the sampling instants. The output at the sampling instants is determined in the phase plane with the aid of two difference equations which are obtained from the time solution of the linear part of the system. This method of solution is not restricted to the study of such systems for step function inputs but may be used equally well to study the effects of sine wave inputs on the system as is illustrated in the examples of the paper."
"A QUERY more and more frequently made these days seeks advice on the use of electric energy as compared to the older conventional fuels for the heating of a new home. The dealer in each type of fuel will ardently argue for his product and often supply convincing evidence. While there is a great deal of information available on each type as used in different houses, a meaningful comparison is difficult if not impossible because of the great number of variables involved."
"TO DATE, little attention has been focused on the resulting over-all system performance due to the effect of driving-source impedance on servomotor characteristics. The torque - speed characteristics of a motor, as furnished by the manufacturer, may be correctly used for calculating the motor transfer function only when the identical test conditions relating to the driving source impedance to both phases are satisfied."
"Resistance load (electric heaters, incandescent lights, etc.) can be switched most satisfactorily by a relatively slow moving motor-operated type of switch. Noise, contact wear, and general maintenance are all less than with the ordinary type of magnetic contactor, which is designed for switching inductive loads."
"The expanding use of pole-zero techniques in designing feedback control systems has made paramount a simple method for determining characteristic pole-zero locations of existing systems and components. As a step in this direction, a method is presented for determining characteristic pole locations of a system. Use is made of a signal from a “zero generator.” This signal is fed into the system to cancel existing poles. A null method is used to determine when the pole is cancelled. The position of the zero given by the calibration of the zero generator then determines the location of the pole."
"TWENTY YEARS AGO the programs of many engineering meetings included papers on air conditioning. Air conditioning was “billed” as the business which would pull the country out of the depression. Today the heat pump appears with almost equal frequency in the discussions of technical societies. The claims made for it are more realistic than were those for air conditioning."
"ELECTRIC MOTORS that drive oil well pumping units cannot deliver an average horsepower output equal to name-plate rating without the effective or rms current exceeding rated current. Expressed another way, motors that drive pumping units must be derated if they are to operate without being thermally overloaded. A method is presented for determining the per cent of rated power output that electric motors can deliver when driving oil well pumping units. This requires a determination of average power output under actual operating conditions. A procedure for determining the average power output is developed that only requires measurements which can be made in the field by engineers and field testers."
"AN unusual opportunity for testing d-c air circuit breakers on a high-capacity system has been made possible with use of the mercury-arc rectifier system at Alcoa's Rockdale Works. The system had a preliminary short-circuit current calculation of 880,000 amperes but the actual available current was determined at the test point, located mid-way on the d-c bus, to be slightly over 400,000 amperes. The maximum available current was obtained by connecting in parallel four potline busses without a short-circuit current-limiting test resistor. Under this extreme condition, a peak current of 220,000 amperes flowed through the breakers. These current values are greater than the interrupting rating listed in the standards for semi-high-speed d-c breakers normally used for high-capacity d-c application. However, sufficient current-limiting action of the interrupter was obtained and the clearing time was short enough to maintain a continuous power flow to the aluminum potline. Being the first known tests presented since the new rating structure was adopted, the results indicate that the standard1 is a conservative rating when used as the guide."
"MODERN classification yards permit an incoming freight train to be redistributed to tracks assigned to various destinations, with all measurements, computations, and speed control performed automatically. In such yards cars are uncoupled at the crest of a hill and then accelerate freely down a slope which is usually about 3%. This increase in speed separates the cars so that track switches may be safely thrown between cars. Some 250 feet down the hill is the master retarder, a pneumatic or electric brake, which squeezes the wheels of each car between brake beams and reduces the car speed in a controlled manner to a value which can be handled by subsequent retarders. Below the master retarder the tracks fan out to a number of group retarders; here the exit speed must be computed which will allow each car just sufficient energy to traverse the subsequent curve and travel the free roll distance down straight classification track to a gentle coupling with cars already there. A radar-controlled servo loop is closed around each retarder so that the desired exit speed is accurately attained."
"FOR MANY YEARS only an insignificant fraction of the cabooses operating on America's railroads have utilized any form of electric power. Most cabooses have been heated by oil stoves and illuminated by kerosene lanterns. Signaling and communications have been carried out by means of written notes or hand signals."
"IN 1899 Dr. E. G. Acheson discovered that if he overheated silicon carbide, the silicon was volatilized out and pure carbon or graphite remained. Later tests showed that graphite could be manufactured by heating petroleum coke to a high temperature [2,600 C (degrees centigrade)]."
"THIS PAPER encompasses two important aspects of the 1957 symposium theme of “Computers in Control.” First, the General Electric Automatic Dispatching System1‾3 to be described includes analog computing loops which insure that the turbine generators within the utility system are loaded according to incremental cost theories, thus resulting in minimum fuel expenditures for the utility system. Second, the application of a differential analyzer as a tool in the design of this automatic dispatching system will be described. The differential analyzer application may be outlined as follows: 1. Complete differential analyzer simulation of power system and dispatching system to determine optimum design of regulating and economic loops. 2. Differential analyzer simulation of power system tied together with prototype control components to study and evaluate the design of prototype equipment."
"This paper analyses the performance of the field-current regulator on a large d-c reversing mill drive. A study is made of the transfer functions associated with the shunt-field-controlled d-c motor. The results obtained from an analog computer study of the problem are discussed and a brief description of the analog setup used for the study is given in Appendix I. Particular attention is paid to the performance of the current-limit control. The over-all study revealed certain weaknesses in the type of system used in practice, and the paper concludes with a brief description of a control system which embodies improved features which were an outcome of the study."
"EVEN with the high degree of reliability which mercury-arc rectifiers possess today, there are still a few occasions when current is carried in the wrong direction in one of the rectifier tanks and hence an arc back is created. Since this arc-back current can rise to an abnormally high value in a few milliseconds, a means must be provided to limit and to cut off this abnormal current when an arc back does occur. In order to be able to specify the characteristics of the rectifier tanks, the rectifier transformer, and the anode and cathode circuit breakers, it is essential that the magnitude of this arc-back current can be calculated with a reasonable degree of accuracy. Methods and procedures for calculating this arc-back current have been described in numerous books and papers,1‾6 and these calculations have been extremely useful in permitting the design of rectifier equipments which have reliably supplied large quantities of d-c power. On occasions when field tests have been performed and measurements of this arc-back current have been made, an abnormally large discrepancy has usually been found to exist between the calculated and the measured values of this current with the calculated values being appreciably higher than the measured values. While the calculated results were on the safe side, they have, on occasions, required the installation of additional impedance in the a-c system and have therefore increased the initial installation cost and may have penalized the operating performance of this equipment."
"This paper discusses the theoretical analysis and experimental verification of a dual-mode quasi-linear servo-mechanism. After a brief review of the operation of the simple dual-mode servo system, the desirability of linear operation for small errors is pointed out. A method of producing a gradual transition from one mode of operation to the other and finally to nearly linear operation is investigated."
"THE virtual elimination of relay contacts from the highly repetitive functions required for automatic warehousing was made possible by the selection of static control elements, Westing-house Cypak,1,2,3 in place of conventional relays for an extensive mechanized carton-handling installation in the Chelsea Milling Company premix food plant at Chelsea, Mich. While the basic concept of the control philosophy was determined to be the same for either relays or static control elements, the high reliability and negligible maintenance inherent in static control elements, which have no moving parts subject to wear or corrosion, dictated the choice. Interestingly, the first cost was found essentially comparable."
"This paper is concerned with the problem of designing optimal systems for the control of a plant governed by a linear differential equation with constant coefficients. Control is exerted by means of piecewise constant signals which can change only at the “sampling instants.” Optimality means here, as in some nonlinear problems, that the system achieves equilibrium with zero steady-state error from any initial state as quickly as possible."
"The paper outlines the problems facing mine hoist engineers in the design and application of automatic hoist equipment. Duty cycle requirements, types of hoists, and the advantages of mine hoist automation are discussed. Particular mention is made of available a-c and d-c control systems. Overriding speed reference equipment and the safety features of modern automatic controls are described. A discussion on hoist brakes is also included, as these are an integral part of each hoist control design. It is the purpose of this paper, and its bibliography, to provide the designer with many references and with a detailed outline of existing thinking on the subject."
"IN RECENT YEARS claims for damage to freight shipments have been steadily increasing, and such claims currently cost the railroads of the United States over 100 million dollars annually. Some of this damage occurs during the various classification processes. There are two main types of classification yards; namely 1. flat switching and 2. gravity. The gravity yard is the type of yard dealt with in this paper."
"Shift registers provide a versatile building block for control of industrial materials handling systems. When composed of static elements, flexibility and reliability are combined in performing control functions. Circuit configurations and field applications are described for dispatching, scanning, counting, and static stepping switch functions."
"IN A PREVIOUS PAPER1 the authors show that a relay servomechanism can be made to have a deadbeat response to a step displacement input by using proper combinations of linear derivative switching and discontinuously applied viscous damping. In brief, viscous damping is applied to the motor or load when the relay enters its dead zone. The resultant phase trajectory in the dead zone is a straight line for many cases, and derivative controlled relay operation can be adjusted to make the locus of points at which the relay opens parallel to the deadzone trajectory. The relay cannot reverse under these conditions and the system gain can be raised until the dead zone is quite narrow."
"TO OBTAIN a satisfactory solution to many of the complex control system problems which are currently being encountered, it has been necessary to apply the combination of digital controls and analog controls to the system. Whenever a transition is made between a digital system and an analog system, the embodiment of a sampled-data system is obtained. Likewise, in applications in which a number of similar processes are controlled through a time-sharing or multiplexed system by one common computer or controller, a sampled-data system is also obtained. In such cases the system performance is determined not only by the characteristics of the continuous portion of the system within the control loop, but also by the sampled-data system parameters, such as type of holding circuit and sampling rate. To set up specifications properly for such control systems, it is necessary to understand the effect of the sampled-data system parameters upon the over-all system performance."
"Control systems incorporating a digital control computer can provide improved process performance but are more difficult to design than conventional systems. After determination that a particular process may warrant use of a digital control computer, a detailed study should be carried out to specify the system functions and to estimate its cost and benefits. This study involves establishing process boundaries, examination of process objectives and economics, development of quantitative relationships between process variables, invention of a system, and its evaluation."
"THE CONCEPT of “optimum” lies at the heart of all sophisticated design work. The intelligent designer always wants to know which design meets a given set of conflicting conditions and constraints in the best possible, or optimum, way. This is especially true in feedback control system engineering, where, in order to describe optimum quantitatively, its meaning is narrowed to include only system performance characteristics. Usually a performance index is chosen, and the optimum system is defined as the system that minimizes (or maximizes) the performance index for the given set of constraints."
"DURING the past decade, interest in sampled-data systems has grown at a prodigious rate. In some of the early work1,2 such systems were regarded as pulsed memory units which operate linearly on discrete data. In later work3,4 the concept of impulse modulation was introduced, and the modern theory of sampled-data system analysis was established with the definition of the z-transformation.4"
"This paper considers the response of a saturating conditionally stable system to a sinusoidal input. When the input signal is sufficiently large, the system becomes unstable and it is found that the resultant oscillation depends to a marked extent on the frequency of the input signal. An extension to the previously developed describing-function technique is presented, which gives a unified explanation for all the observed phenomena. Experimental work agrees with theoretical predictions for a particular system."
"THE TIME RESPONSE to a disturbance in any linear system depends upon the initial conditions, the disturbance, and the roots of the characteristic equation. The response will be bounded (stable) if, and only if, all roots have negative real parts. The response is the sum of a particular integral (PI) and a complementary function (CF). The PI is often called the steady-state part of solution and the CF the transient part of the solution."
"The phase-space trajectories for second- and third-order positive-feedback servo systems are investigated. These trajectories, together with the negative-feedback phase-space trajectories, are used to design fast-response servo systems, which switch back and forth between positive and negative feedback modes. The approach used for the third-order systems may be applied to higher order systems. Experimental results of simulated systems are presented."
"A control system is considered which employs a motor driving a load through gearing having backlash. It is assumed that linear speed-dependent friction is applied to both the motor and the load. The effect of backlash and friction on the stability of the control system is investigated using the describing function technique. A method of deriving the describing function is given and it is shown that the presence of friction modifies the application of the describing function as presented by Tustin.1 In particular it is shown that although the positional reset may be divided in the ratio of the inertias, the system may still exhibit sustained oscillations, and the choice of system parameters to eliminate these oscillations is discussed. To illustrate the effect of backlash and friction quantitatively a second-order control system is considered. The oscillations predicted by the theory are measured on an electronic analog of the system. By a correct choice of the system parameters the oscillations are removed."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the title page of this issue of the periodical."
"THE SUCCESS in the use of germanium rectifier cells in low-voltage industrial rectifiers since their introduction in 1952 has created a need for higher voltage rectifiers with comparable advantages in efficiency and low initial and maintenance cost. To obtain higher voltages, germanium cells must be operated in series until such time that higher voltages per single cell are made possible."
"SPACE and weight limitations in present-day aircraft necessitate miniaturization of air-borne electric equipment. Such miniaturization generally results in high heat dissipation per unit volume which may lead to local temperatures which exceed the material limitations, causing failure of the component. To avoid such failure, electrical engineers must examine the heat-transfer problem when designing compact electric apparatus. It is the purpose of this paper to present a method of heat-transfer analysis which is relatively simple and straightforward and which utilizes concepts and equipment familiar to electrical engineers. The proposed method is based on the fact that the differential equations describing the flow of heat are identical to those for the flow of electric current; consequently, an electrical analog of the heat-flow problem can be readily constructed and the electrical measurements of current and voltage can be directly translated to the equivalent thermal quantities, heat flow and temperature."
"THIS PAPER describes an automatic gage-control system which has recently been put into service on a 56-inch 4-high reversing cold mill. Measurement of gage is achieved by suitable addition of signals proportional to the force tending to separate the work rolls and the unloaded separation between the work rolls. Control of gage is by screwdown and strip tension."
"Future electronic equipment mounted aboard high-speed military aircraft and guided missiles will have to withstand high altitudes, ultrahigh temperatures, and radiation. Present goals as established by the U. S. Air Force for electronic power transformers are 100,000 feet altitude, 500 C (degrees centigrade) ambient temperature, and intense nuclear radiation. With terminal spacings normally designed for air dielectric strengths at altitudes up to approximately 50,000 feet and temperatures up to 125 C, additional information is needed on breakdown voltages under these new conditions."
"THE GENERAL STUDY of the transient performance of the synchronous machine is based on Park's1,2 theory. Various authors have presented useful methods for the study of this subject, and a complete bibliography is contained in reference 3. Problems related to the transient operation of the synchronous machine have been treated as well, aiming at the representation of the synchronous machine for analog studies.10,11"
"IN A LIST of more than 380 technical problems affecting the defense of the United States prepared by the National Inventors Council (Office of Technical Services, U. S. Department of Commerce) appears the following item under the general heading of Power Supplies: “741. AC Generators - Constant frequency, variable speed AC Generators.“ This is but one indication of the importance attached today to the problem of constant-frequency a-c generation, particularly with regard to air-borne applications. In recent years, many solutions to this problem have been proposed, developed and, in some instances, specific constant-frequency generating systems have been actually utilized in aircraft and guided missiles."
"CONTROL of railway traffic from a central location requires the transfer of large amounts of information between the central location and many points along the railroad. The number of wayside information points depends on the type of signaling installed, which in turn depends on the type and amount of traffic handled by the railroad. Certainly, effective communication is required with all locations where track switches and controlled signals are situated. Information must also be available from a sufficient number of points to keep the dispatcher informed about the location and progress of all trains."
"THE HEATING of dielectric materials by means of microwave energy was investigated in the General Electric Company a decade ago by members of the Research Laboratory, who demonstrated the feasibility of preheating plastics and heating foods using a magnetron oscillator at a frequency of 1,000 mc (megacycles). In recent years the GL-6787 magnetron, operating in the 915-mc Industrial-Scientific-Medical band, has been developed as a source of power for these applications. In quantity production, this tube will provide economical microwave power for consumer and industrial applications. In order to design equipment for efficient preheating, it is necessary to know the characteristics of the materials as a function of temperature. This paper presents the results of an initial investigation of the effectiveness of 915-mc heating on various dielectric materials, and describes means of measuring the characteristics of materials at this frequency."
"LARGE installations of electric heating depend for their success on a correct analysis of the many technical problems involved. Too often these are not given the proper study and unsatisfactory operations result from inadequate engineering design."
"An extensive testing program for anode breakers using a high-capacity power-rectifier system of the Aluminum Company of America was an unusual opportunity for an appraisal of the combined performance of the system equipment. The information gave an evaluation of the protection to the equipment and has provided a better understanding of the influence of the system components on operating service conditions. This was done with special controls and comprehensive instrumentation which achieved a uniform testing procedure including the rectifier-tank characteristics, phase control of rectifier-tank firing, and interphase transformer saturation control. Through the repetitive consistency of the test arc-back currents, a reliable performance was given by the high-speed current-limiting breaker over the range of available power. In addition, these tests with the large aluminum potline rectifier system gave a real measure of the combined performance of the equipment up to the maximum service requirements rather than by individual device tests, the data for comparison and evaluation of other test facilities, and a guide to future applications."
"THIS investigation is a time domain study of relay-type feedback control systems with dead time and sampling. It introduces a new approach to the analysis and design of relay-type control systems employing sampling. Because of the sampler, clamper, and relay, the system is nonlinear, and discontinuous in time. Systems of this general nature have been analyzed in the past by Chow1 and Russell2 using the sinusoidal response method introduced by Goldfarb3 and Kochenburger.4"
"THE CHARACTERISTICS of commonly used infrared sources have been rather well delineated in the past,1,2 so that the quantity and quality of their radiant outputs need not be covered in this paper. Generally speaking, these sources have one or two dimensions, represented by point sources, line sources, and area sources. All are basically omnidirectional, and their utilization is dependent on some form of optical control, both individually and when combined to form an oven."
"FREQUENCY-response measurements are often made in the laboratory to determine performance of components or systems. Such tests are far more rare on complete processes. To the authors' knowledge, the tests described here were the first to vary sinusoidally, while rolling, the speed of a metal rolling mill to determine how strip thickness was affected by the frequency of oscillation."
"MUCH of the theory of control systems deals with the problem of reducing to the lowest possible value the dynamic error in single-variable control systems. In the study of that problem it is generally assumed that any conceivable method of compensation is justified, provided that it allows the error, as measured in accordance with some criterion, to be reduced; in other words, the purpose of the controller is to reduce the error at all costs."
"THE THEORY associated with the design of sampled data systems1 has progressed to the point where it is possible to design a digital controller pulse transfer function so as to obtain an over-all system pulse transfer function which will meet certain specifications such as being stable, and physically realizable; having a minimum settling time in response to a given input; having ripple-free operation after a short transient, etc."
"THE PURPOSE of this paper is to improve the general understanding of induction heating through a familiarity with what happens electrically and magnetically inside a solid bar being heated. AIEE Standard No. 541 defines induction heating as the heating of a nominally conducting material in a varying magnetic field due to its internal losses. This paper reports the results of a study of how these losses occur, and describes the vector current densities and flux densities inside the material being heated. The AIEE definition is sufficiently general to include not only intentional induction heating as practiced industrially for hardening, forge heating, brazing, and other applications, but also the eddy current and hysteresis heating which appear as core losses in motors and transformers. This paper deals with the case of a long, round, solid bar of homogeneous conducting material located coaxially inside a solenoidal coil carrying sinusoidal alternating current. This is a configuration used frequently in industrial induction heating installations. The same principles apply to more complicated arrangements. The results given here apply over the entire range of sizes and frequencies used in industrial induction heating, as well as to the lower frequencies and smaller dimensions employed to avoid eddy currents and reduce core losses in electromagnetic equipment."
"This paper discusses transient-voltage phenomena which occur in rectifier circuits involving mercury-vapor hot-cathode tubes commonly used as power sources in many electronic equipments such as broadcast transmitters, high-frequency industrial-heating applications and the like. In particular, reference is made to equipments with power outputs in the range 10-200 kw with direct voltages of 3 to 15 kv."
"This paper deals with the load aspects and economic aspects of three types of residential heat pump systems which employ supplementary heat sources. It contains illustrations of their load characteristics over a wide range of annual COP (coefficient of performance), depicts relationships of the relative costs to serve these loads from long-range and short-range considerations, and provides, as a reference, load characteristics and economic data for three comparable types of resistance heating systems with their complementary electrical cooling loads, and a band of competitive operating costs to customers using gas for heating and cooling."
"FEEDBACK loops, in states of self-oscillation, can often be stabilized by the introduction of an appropriate signal. In this paper a theory is developed to explain this phenomenon. The theory is applied to a system which is linear except for a limiter. Experimental results for the system showing the removal of the hunt by a stabilizing signal are given in a previous paper.1"
"IT IS THE PURPOSE of this paper to present the results of investigating the probability distribution of the response of a nonlinear system when it is subjected to a Gaussian random input. The mathematical theory of a Markoff random process is used; the associated Fokker-Planck equation for a generalized continuous nonlinear system is presented. The justification for assuming the error response of a nonlinear control system as being a Markoff process is discussed."
"THE PROBLEM of controlling continuously the speed of induction motors is as old as the motor itself. Numerous schemes have been developed and successfully applied since the end of the last century. Most of them are relatively efficient but require auxiliary machines. Some are inherently critical in manufacture and operation. As a result, when efficient and continuous speed control over a wide range is necessary, the adjustable-voltage d-c drive is still the most frequent choice."
"A MULTIVARIABLE system is characterized by a multiplicity of inputs and outputs. In the following, it will be assumed that such systems can be described by linear, time-in variant, input-output relations over the whole range of operation or over the restricted range of interest. Thus, let then, the system input-output relation may be expressed compactly as where R, C, and A are input, output, and transfer-function matrices respectively; see Fig. 1. It is seen that a multivariable system derives each output by a simultaneous operation on all its inputs. Furthermore, it is apparent that the class of multivariable systems includes the common single-variable system as a special case."
"THE ROOT LOCUS methods have in recent years gained a widespread popularity among control engineers engaged in the work of both analysis and synthesis. The reason for this is rather obvious; the root locus techniques give the system designer more information of the kind in which he is interested when analyzing a given system; when he is synthesizing a control network, these techniques permit him to build the desired characteristics into the system in a much more direct fashion than did the old frequency response techniques. The basis for this statement is that in the large majority of control systems, the transient, not the frequency, response is of overshadowing importance."
"A NEW describing-function technique is used in this paper to show the effects of several gain-controlling nonlinearities on the limit-cycle stability of an aircraft roll-stabilization system. The new method leads to a stability diagram which is divided not into the usual two regions of “stable” and “unstable” operation but rather into numerous regions each of which is associated with a particular type of limit-cycle oscillation or singular point. Such a diagram gives considerable insight into the mechanism of oscillations often observed in physical equipment. Very satisfactory agreement with analog computer studies is demonstrated for the new technique."
"ECONOMY IS ONE of the most important considerations in the design of any system. Maximum savings can be achieved in the design of switching circuits by performing the desired logic in the simplest minimum form applicable to the equipment utilized. Boolean algebra is often used to express the functions of switching circuits and these Boolean expressions generally appear in the final form of a sum of products or a product of sums. The form that presents the most economical application is determined by the equipment. It is therefore necessary to be able to transform and simplify Boolean functions so that they will appear in the predetermined form that will yield the maximum savings."
"IN ANOTHER PAPER1 Wolf reports on the recurrence relations in the solution of a certain class of nonlinear systems. In Wolf's dissertation2 a mathematical theory for the analysis of a class of nonlinear systems has been developed. This paper reports on a stability criterion based on the aforementioned dissertation and its application to nonlinear as well as linear feedback control systems."
"MANY servo systems possess open-loop transfer functions which contain one or more pairs of complex conjugate poles. Often a pair of these complex conjugate poles will lie close to the imaginary axis and will cause the uncompensated system to possess a relatively poor damping ratio or damping exponent. Usually, satisfactory compensation of such systems can be achieved through the use of tachometer feedback or the conventional compensators possessing real axis singularities. However, there are occasions when complex conjugate singularity compensation would possess distinct advantages. This is particularly true if the compensating complex singularities can be introduced by a simple R-C (resistance-capacitance) passive network with zero d-c attenuation."
"AUTOMATIC FEEDBACK-control system synthesis occupies a rather unique place among the various fields of engineering due to the indirectness of its approach. An antenna will be designed for a certain radiation pattern because this radiation pattern is called for in the intended application. On the other hand, a servomechanism which is destined to handle step inputs exclusively may be synthesized by the techniques of Nyquist, Nichols, or Bode. This means that the system is actually designed for a frequency response: to exhibit certain resonance characteristics when subjected to steady-state sinusoidal inputs of varying frequency. Yet the system will never be subjected to this latter type of input. The justification of this approach is that the experience of the designer provides the basis for expecting that the system will perform properly in its actual input environment if it is built for a specific frequency response. Such examples of indirectness could be enumerated almost endlessly."
"ON december 6, 1941, the Seaboard Air Line Railroad placed in service the first segment of a major installation of a system of traffic control on its line. The segment was only 33 miles in length but it made history. It was a portion of a 65-mile segment of railroad to be electrically controlled from a remote location 157 miles from the most distant point. At that time this line became the longest control line for this type of service in the world. The system proved to be very efficient and economical, and expansion of the system was made as rapidly as material and labor could be obtained. As of today, trains operate the entire distance between Richmond and Miami - Tampa by signal indication controlled by modern systems of traffic control."
"THE HISTORY of the United States shows in some degree a direct relationship between the country's progress and the building of the railroads. One of the railroads' most outstanding achievements was the phenomenal manner in which they handled more than 90% of all personnel and materials that were moved for military purposes during World War II. One objective of this paper is to show how the centrallized traffic-control system helped the railroads achieve this outstanding performance."
"FREQUENCY-RESPONSE techniques are among the most powerful tools in the hands of the feedback control systems engineer. Perhaps of greatest use today are the attenuation and phase-angle plot techniques developed by Bode. These techniques are particularly effective in analysis and synthesis of stable systems in establishing the relative stability of a system.1 Although it is possible to estimate the transient response of a system whose open-loop frequency response is known, the accurate prediction of this transient response by analytical means involves obtaining the roots of the characteristic equation for the closed-loop system. Knowing the system's closed-loop factored transfer function, the transient response of the system may then be obtained analytically by means of Laplace transform methods. Thus, if"
"Elimination of unexpected breakdowns in d-c high-potential testing is made possible by observing the electrical noise caused by ionization. (The terms ionization and ionization discharges are used as common terminology to refer to charge redistributions as a result of gaseous breakdowns in the insulation systems; see Appendix I. However, it will be more appropriate for the purposes of this paper to include in this term the charge redistributions taking place whenever a minute conducting path on the insulation surface is broken down.) The relative severity of ionization discharges is easily detected by picking up a voltage drop proportional to the current in the test circuit. The high-frequency discharges can then be observed on an oscilloscope screen or measured by other means. It is found that:"
"THE PROBLEM of developing a practical method of instrumentation for production use at the Westinghouse Electric Corporation has been advanced by the combined interest and efforts of research, development, and manufacturing people within the company. The use of instrumentation for resistance welding involves wide economic considerations in product quality and production costs and has thereby greatly stimulated this interest."
"THIS PAPER discusses generally the electric power distribution systems, control schemes, supervisory control, telemetering, and communication means employed on a crude-oil pipe line constructed by The Shell Pipe Line Corporation."
"TEST PROCEDURES for determining the relative life expectancies of different insulation systems for random-wound machines, using either complete motors or models, called motorettes, are provided for by AIEE no. 510.1 The procedure calls for subjecting the motorettes to successive periods of high temperature in ovens, followed by vibration and exposure to moisture, and an overvoltage check. The cycle is repeated until the test unit fails under voltage. The tests are conducted at three or more temperatures, and are made on a sufficient number of samples to obtain the desired statistical accuracy. The tests on motors are similar, but the heating, vibration, and voltage exposures are all obtained at the same time by operating the motors on a frequent starting or reversing cycle. The results of the tests are given in the form of a life-temperature chart, as in Fig. 1."
"EARLIER literature has suggested the design of the so-called optimum relay control system, where the term “optimum” is based on the system having the fastest possible response in terms of reducing the error to minimum following a step or ramp input.1‾4 It has been pointed out that these systems are optimum only in this special sense, and that their response to other types of input may be undesirable.5"
"THE rail detector car is an assemblage of specialized test equipment mounted on self-propelled railroad cars and is used for the detection of all types of defects that develop in railroad rails. The story of detector cars should start a few years before there were any such cars. Before 1926, the railroads were faced with a serious and fast-growing menace to their very life: the breaking of rails. The source of this menace was the transverse fissure, a very thin crack which would start within the rail and develop outwardly until it caused the rail to break."
"THERE is special interest in aluminum for shipboard use because of the savings realized in weight and because of shortages in copper that occur especially in times of national emergency when shipbuilding is at its peak. Although aluminum has been considered for cable conductors for shipboard use it is generally without over-all advantage because the larger conductor size results in a greater volume and weight of insulating and sheathing materials. These factors involving insulation are not imposed in applying aluminum to electrical bus. In utilizing aluminum bus for switchgear application problems arise that are mostly but not entirely confined to the making of satisfactory electric connections. The literature on the subject contains a large body of information. Much effort is devoted to coping with a particular environmental stress or material property considered to predominate in the reliability of a specific system. Some of the work stresses the advantage of a proprietary material or a particular method. Instances of controversy are attributed largely to differences of conditions of evaluation and as such appear best capable of resolution by re-evaluation on the same basis. The rather extreme conditions and their wide variety in shipboard service justify additional evaluation. A comprehensive experimental investigation was therefore carried out to determine the optimum means of utilizing aluminum bus in switchgear with the primary objective of long-term service reliability. Measurements taken on large numbers of specimens determine the extent to which different types of aluminum joined by various bolting methods, and with joint surfaces prepared with various joint compounds, are affected by prolonged load cycling, overload, weathering, vibration, and high impact shock; similarly tested is the extent to which silver platings are affected. Measurements on an actual marine installation after 20 years of service are correlated with the results of experimental laboratory work. In addition, information is provided which is useful in the design of bus supports needed to withstand fault currents."
"THE USE of an analog computer, particularly one of the electronic differential analyzer type, in the analysis and design of feedback control systems has been well established in the past few years. Quite often, however, a detailed computer investigation of a control system is not necessary. For example, in some instances the control system may contain only a few components which can be represented by linear transfer functions, in which case the familiar methods of linear servomechanism analysis may be employed. It is also possible in some cases that it is just as economical to optimize a design on the test floor without benefit of a computer study."
"CONTROL ENGINEERS generally adhere to the use of frequency response as the fundamental tool for feedback control systems. Through the use of the Nichols chart,1 the open-loop characteristics can be quickly converted to the closed-loop characteristics. The performance of control systems can be estimated according to the gain and phase margins and the magnitude of peak M. Although actual performance may be quite different from that predicted by a certain value of a particular specification, yet by means of Meerov's method2 it should not be difficult for engineers to determine the limits of applicability and to evaluate its effectiveness."
"PRESENT and future aircraft requirements for electric power are constantly increasing, with operational requirements of speed, altitude, and equipment imposing greater loads on the electric generating systems. The need therefore exists for generators capable of operating at higher temperatures than those presently available."
"THE ELECTRICAL RESISTANCE of storage batteries is important to two groups of people. Designers of telephone equipment need to know the resistance to alternating current in order to evaluate the cross talk between simultaneous telephone conversations which must pass through the central station battery. They must also be able to evaluate the amount of filtering required to remove hum, noise, and switching pulses from the output of the charging and switching equipment. In addition, designers of central power stations need to know the resistance of the battery which must supply short pulses of power to operate electric switches."
"THE important effect which water vapor has on the performance of carbon brushes has been recognized for many years. Prior to 1935,1 cases of excessively short brush life were found to be due to the low humidity of the cold air of midwestern United States winters. Early in World War II, when bombers began flying at altitudes above 20,000 feet, this low-humidity problem was more spectacularly demonstrated when it was found that the brushes on the dc generators were wearing out completely during flights as short as one hour. Tests in simulated high-altitude atmospheres showed, conclusively, that the extremely rapid wear, or “dusting,” of carbon brushes was caused by the inability of the brushes to maintain lubricating films on commutators in the extremely low atmospheric humidities which were found to exist at high altitudes."
"COMPONENTS TO BE developed under the Hotelec program include fuses, terminals, and splices. The most significant new requirement of this program as it affects these components is the extension of the temperature level to 850 F (degrees Fahrenheit) for terminals and splices, and to 600 F for fuses; these are ambient temperatures with conductor temperatures reaching 1,000 F. Other significant requirements are for the devices to withstand vibration to 20 g (gravitational acceleration) at a frequency of 80 to 2,500 cps (cycles per second); acoustic noise of 150 decibels, as well as shock of 50 g for 11 milliseconds. The altitude of 80,000 feet demands resistance to ozone, and requires consideration of the effects of corona. Similarly, the significant increase of temperature makes it necessary to limit thermal voltages at junctions to 0.1 millivolt."
"Electric equipment such as pump motors, instrumentation, control apparatus, and wire and cable, is necessary for the operation of nuclear reactors in central stations and in marine, rail, and aeronautical transportation equipment. For engineering and economic reasons, some of the electric apparatus is placed close to the reactor in regions of strong nuclear radiation. So that equipment can be designed to be reliable when exposed to this radiation, engineers require data on the behavior of all the components and materials when subjected to this environment."
"Equations are developed for the calculation of insulation aging in apparatus, in which it is recognized that the temperature of the apparatus usually changes in accordance with an exponential relation. The results from this method are compared with the simplification usually made of assuming rectangular temperature cycles and also with the assumption of a triangular temperature cycle. Insulation aging rate is based on the use of the Arrhenius chemical reaction rate theory, which relates insulation deterioration to the reciprocal of the absolute temperature. All aging values are in terms of relative aging, which assigns a value of unit aging to a specified temperature. To establish the errors involved in the simplifying assumptions conventionally used in aging computations, the calculations in this paper are carried out to more significant figures than basic aging data and time constants would justify."
"Recent measurements of charge imparted to fine particles by unipolar ions in a strong electric field have shown that this charge is appreciably higher than that predicted by previous theoretical analyses. The charge acquired by fine particles is due primarily to ions which strike the particle by virtue of their random heat motion. Previous analyses have assumed that the only field existing was that due to the charge on the particles, thus neglecting any external field which would be present in a corona discharge. Two effects of an external field which influence charging are critically examined: 1. Ions or electrons which travel in the direction of the external field toward the particle will acquire energy in addition to their heat energy. Their increase in energy will allow these elementary particles to overcome more readily the potential field of the charged particle. This effect is shown to be small for molecular ions at atmospheric pressure except for only the very smallest particles but, for charging by free electrons, which have a much longer mean free path, the effect could cause a large increase in charge. 2. The presence of an external field will alter the density distribution of ions around the charged particle since this field opposes the particle field on one side of the particle and aids it on the other side. The general equation for the ion density distribution was not able to be solved. However, approximate finite difference methods using computing machinery show that this effect is important and may almost completely account for the higher charge found with molecular ion charging."
"The manufacture of components for a system as complex as the computer manufactured by IBM (International Business Machines Corporation) Kingston for use use in the SAGE (Semiautomatic Ground Environment) System requires strict adherence to specified requirements. To meet these requirements, analysis and control of vast numbers of fabricating operations are essential. These operations, although minor in themselves, can jeopardize the effective and specified function of the entire computer by their cumulative shortcomings."
"The impact of modernization and mechanization in business has brought drastic changes in methods and instrumentation to handle large volumes of data at high speeds. Such high-speed handling has much in common with conventional telegraphy, and telegraph techniques in principle apply to data transmission systems."
"Over the past few years the New York State Education Department has conducted a number of experiments using TV (television) as a means of communication between teachers and pupils. The most recent endeavor in this series is a closed circuit educational TV system in Cortland County, N. Y. The primary objective is to determine the effectiveness of elementary and high school teaching via TV. The purpose of this paper is to describe a portion of the project involving the New York Telephone Company, namely, the transmission of video and audio signals from the point of origination to the schools where the information is presented to the pupils."
"As a part of the investigations and analyses performed at Battelle Memorial Institute for Remington Rand Univac, some exploratory experiments were performed at various operating conditions with type ZJ1-501 (4JD1A-62) and ZJ11-501(4JD1A-70) transistors. Both of these transistors are special type 2N123 p-n-p alloy junction high-frequency switching transistors. (The primary physical difference between the ZJ1-501 and ZJ11-501 transistors is the thicker base region of the ZJ1-501.) These exploratory experiments were performed as a portion of a program directed toward the development of accelerated life test procedures for transistors."
"The first successful transformer, according to the “Encyclopedia Britannica,” was demonstrated in 1886 by William Staley. This places transformers among the oldest devices in the science of electrical engineering. They are so widely used today that familiarity with their operation is not confined to trained engineers. Even the average housewife is aware of their existence and the part they play in supplying electricity for household uses."
"A technique is described to aid in the design of magnetic recording heads. Large-scale models are used for the experimental optimization of recording head designs. To illustrate this technique, appropriate scaling factors are derived and then applied to the design of a vertical recording head."
"The properties of a teleprinter with regard to signal transmission are determined by the performance of three functional units: the drive system, the transmitter, and the receiver. Their design and characteristics in the pageprinter recently developed by Siemens & Halske are subjected to a theoretical examination and practical results discussed. Results coming up very closely to the ideal values have been achieved with simple means."
"In january 1953 a report1 was made of the design, manufacture (1950), and laying (October 3, 1951) of an experimental length of novel nonarmored deep sea submarine telegraph cable2,3 in 1,250 fathoms of water. In the course of the discussion of the paper it was stated that after a test of about 3 years it was hoped to recover the cable and present a further report on its condition."
"Efficient and extremely rapid mechanical energy transfer by means of a design philosophy based on elastic impact of metallic parts made possible the fulfillment of the end function required of a high-speed teletypewriter. Solid-state electronic components enabling data translations and control functions to be performed economically and reliably within minimum space and power limits has proved the final key to practic equipments whose performance far exceeds that of the current standards. The device described in this paper demonstrates the magnitude with which performance might be extended by the marriage of solid-state data-handling techniques with unique mechanical design."
"An all-magnetic amplifier controller is described. The design has the long life and dependability expected from an all-magnetic circuit and still meets the exacting accuracy and stability requirements of industrial process control. It is intended primarily for fast response (flow) processes, and is designed for 10-50-ma d-c input and output."
"The taut-band suspension instrument contains a moving element suspended by two metal bands under tension which replace the conventional spiral springs, jewels, and pivot bearings. (The term \"taut-band suspension instrument\" is used in this paper as reference to an instrument element that is supported by two metal ribbons under tension, sustained by springs.) This new design is free from bearing friction, thus eliminating the major causes of trouble experienced with conventional pivot and jewel bearings such as pivot wear and flattening, or damaged and dirty jewels."
"Technological developments have brought increasing needs for convenient, portable instruments for measuring current and voltage with high accuracy over a wide range of frequencies. A “universal” volt-ampere (VA) converter has been developed for making such measurements to 0.05% with alternating current at frequencies from 5 cps (cycles per second) to 50 kc and with direct current. The new model is based on an earlier, much more limited prototype converter,1 and, like it, is used with a null-type d-c potentiometer. With this single, self-contained, portable, 44-range instrument, the 1.5-volt range of a suitable potentiometer can be used to make a-c (rms) and d-c measurements from 7.5 milliamperes (ma) to 20 amperes and from 0.5 volt to 600 volts. With a more sensitive external galvanometer, the instrument can also be used as an a-c-d-c transfer standard for a-c-d-c difference measurements to 0.02% over the same frequency range."
"Temperature measurement and control is a basic requirement in many industrial processes. A common problem is the measurement of surface temperatures without contacting the object because it is inaccessible, moving, or because contacting might damage the surface finish. For example, this is the type of problem encountered when it is desired to control the surface temperature of metal molds or rolls in order to reproduce or maintain temperature conditions which are found to give a satisfactory product. The trend toward higher quality and uniformity of processed products results in increasingly closer temperature limits and correspondingly exacting requirements for the temperature-measuring instrument."
"The inductronic* electrodynamometer has been perfected and retested in its final form, and complete information concerning its design and performance can be given at this time. An interim report1 has been presented covering much of this material, and this paper includes the prior material as well as additional new information. A complete wiring diagram is now included along with output response-time curves and a means of controlling the damping by an external network. Shielding from the effects of external magnetic fields has been improved along with more precise frequency compensation. The network used to obtain this compensation is included."
"In 1928, w. c. Woodson announced his procedure for verifying instrument transformer connections to meters for 3-phase 3-wire services.1 The Woodson method has earned the reputation of being the most reliable and satisfactory practice for proving these connections. In 1928, the procedure had minor limitations. Since that time, the employment of 3-phase 4-wire distribution systems, the growing impracticability of reducing customer loads for connection testing to balanced 3-phase known impedances, and the increasing use of capacitors have caused difficulty both in proving internal meter connections and in estimating the load phasors needed for comparison with the Woodson phasors obtained at the meter test switch. There is no procedure that will signal a definite “no” or “yes” that meter test switch phasors correspond to load phasors. On the contrary, the matching of load and Woodson phasors is entrusted to human judgment, and errors are probable. On one utility system, 3 1/2 stator Woodson kits, used in proving over 1,500 complex metering installations, have given added but not complete insurance for verifying 4-wire Y systems. Thirty years of electrical growth and changes have increased the limitations to proving transformer-connected meter installations. In the meantime, there have been no adequate new or extended procedures to give required integrity in this area of metering."
"The american electric power company (AEP) system is an integrated and interconnected electric power network, including six principal operating companies serving parts of seven states: Michigan, Indiana, Ohio, West Virginia, Virginia, Kentucky, and Tennessee. The majority of its revenue watt-hour (whr) meters are selected for test on the basis of geographic areas, each of which include one-eighth of the meters in an operating company. Each year all meters in the geographic area are tested, with some minor exceptions, so that over a period of 8 years all meters on the system are tested once."
"Commercial precipitators are faced with the problem of efficiently collecting dust particles of sizes ranging from hundredths of a micron to several hundred microns in diameter. This span of over ten thousand, in size, imposes a wide range of collecting conditions which make it difficult to accurately predict precipitator performance. The nature and magnitude of the forces acting on particles must be determined if one is to understand and improve precipitator design."
"This paper is concerned with the application of the self-balancing magnetic-amplifier technique in the realm of automatic regulators. It describes two typical examples of such arrangements: 1. A constant-voltage regulator with smoothed low-impedance d-c output to be used for charging of special types of storage batteries, and 2. a constant-light-intensity regulator with a barrier-layer-type photoelectric cell for instrumentation. Both regulators employ self-balancing magnetic amplifiers with infinite internal gain and have excellent performance characteristics with regard to the respective control problems. The paper includes some considerations on the associated constant-voltage and constant-current reference circuits."
"The television medium cannot be used to solve all problems in the field of education. Its value as a means of communication for sight and sound will be as good as the quality of imagination and management which directs its utilization. Those who have professional courage can use its strength to improve and extend education. An increase in school population, increase in school costs and a growing shortage of experienced teachers are some of the rapid changes taking place in the field of education today. We all recognize that satisfactory solutions to each of these problems must be found in order to provide the quality education for our children which our society demands."
"This paper presents the results of a theoretical and experimental investigation of the properties of a shielded helix when used as a transmission line. Since such a structure is dispersive and because of the presence of both TM and TE modes it cannot be said to have a characteristic impedance in the true sense. However, such an impedance is defined for low frequencies in terms of a distributed capacitance and inductance. These parameters, the capacitance and the inductance are determined in the case of infinite wave length for round wire helices. The equations are developed for a uniform dielectric inside the shield and for two dielectrics, one inside the helix and the other between the helix and the shield. The analytic results are then shown to agree very well with the experimental results obtained by the author."
"Integrators of small direct currents and potentials have been put to good use in a wide variety of applications, such as in measuring photographic exposure by-time-integrating the output of a photovoltaic cell, in registering watt-hours derived from the d-c millivolt (mv) output of thermal watt converters and electronic watt converters, and in tallying the amount of gold consumed in gold-plating operations by integrating the potential drop in the plating current shunt."
"The test codes presented here were first presented in 1958 as a conference paper,1 in substantially their present form. The slight revisions contained herein are the result of comments received since that presentation and as a result of a formal review of this paper by the Magnetic Amplifiers Committee."
"Accurate time delay devices are essential to both industrial and military control applications. Static time delay devices presently available provide time delays accurately and economically up to a few seconds. The emphasis on reliability in the industrial and military control fields has made it desirable that a static device be developed to generate the long time intervals required in these areas where reliability and accuracy are so fundamentally important."
"A series-connected saturable reactor with capacitive loading exhibits interesting features. The circuit may exhibit instability associated with a double or three-valued output corresponding to a given input depending on previous history of operation. In some ranges of circuit parameters and forcing function, the circuit may become regenerative thus oscillating at a low frequency modulating the carrier."
"Although there are many methods and procedures for analyzing complex circuits, probably the best-known general approach is to apply an organized, systematic procedure to the combination of the analytic expressions for the voltage-current characteristics of the individual circuit elements. To be able to apply this method of attack, it is essential that the characteristics of the individual circuit elements, if such elements can be defined, can be represented by analytic expressions, and that an organized method exists where the analytic representations of the individual circuit elements can be combined to yield the desired result."
"It has been demonstrated1 that the behavior of magnetic amplifiers without diodes can be analytically described by a set of linear difference equations relating the average values of voltages and currents at the ports. For most circuits this representation gives values which are accurate to within 1 or 2% of actual even for a large variety of waveforms of port and supply voltages. The reason for this rather remarkable accuracy of representation can be attributed to three factors: 1. The control circuit resistance R1 the output circuit resistance R2, and the load resistance RL are small compared to the magnetizing resistance Rm. 2. Almost all practical amplifiers of this type employ an interconnection of basic elements such that quiescent currents tend to cancel at the ports. 3. The state of the saturable inductor, saturated or unsaturated, depends on the integral of the inductor voltage rather than the inductor voltage itself."
"It is convenient to characterize devices for production of intensified X-ray fluoroscopic images in terms of their brightness as compared with conventional fluoroscopic screens. Thus, an X-ray image intensifier is described having an intensification factor of 200 or 500 or 1,000 meaning that the image presented to the viewer is 200 or 500 or 1,000 times brighter than the image would be if he used a conventional X-ray screen. These figures, although widely used today, are meaningless unless all variables are defined and standardized in their measurement. Furthermore, the same term has been used to express the brightness relationship between a light image from a phosphor at the input end of an image device and the light image output. In the case of a fluorescent screen contiguous to a photoelectric surface in a vacuum, the input light image used as the base point can be quite different from, and is usually less bright than, the conventional fluoroscopic screen image under equal stimulus. However, to the best of the author's knowledge, no previous attempt has been made to propose a set of standard conditions on which to base a figure of merit for X-ray image intensifiers."
"By consideration of a detailed example, the use of iterated Laplace transformations is shown to be an important technique for the solution of combined circuit-field problems, i.e., problems in which the simultaneous solution of ordinary and partial differential equations is necessary. One- and 2-mesh circuits in which eddy currents in a rectangular magnetic core play a significant role are analyzed utilizing the iterated transformations; equivalent circuits characterizing the effect of the eddy currents are also presented."
"The conventional procedure for designing systems with many physical parameters is discussed and the translation of this procedure into digital computer operations is considered. Although it is possible to code all of the routine design calculations for a computer, it is impossible to program the insight of the design engineer. It is shown that the determination of the physical parameters for the optimum design of a system is generally equivalent to the minimization of a function subject to constraints. The application of the method of steepest descent to minimization problems is discussed. A method for extending its use to minimization with constraints is presented."
"Up to the present time there has been no satisfactory direct method for designing multiterminal switching circuits. A common approach is to consider each output individually and derive a 2-terminal network for it. An attempt is then made to change the form of the individual 2-terminal networks, if possible, so that combinations between paths may be facilitated. This may be done, for example, by algebraic manipulation of the switching functions describing the 2-terminal networks. Extreme care must be taken in any case so that the individual outputs remain disjunctive."
"For the purpose of increasing the uniformity of symbols in magnetic amplifier papers, Mr. Harold W. Lord, chairman of the AIEE Magnetic Amplifier Committee, asked the Theory Subcommittee to prepare a list of recommended symbols."
"In a series-connected saturable reactor working in the proportional mode with its control winding fed by a direct current from a high impedance source, the gate current as a function of time has a rectangular shape and its amplitude, in ampere turns, is equal to the magnitude of the control current.1 Full-wave rectification of the gate current yields a direct current closely proportional to the control current, regardless of changes in line voltage, frequency, and load resistance. Hence the name d-c transformer. This relation holds in general even under transient conditions. For instance, the gate current follows changes in the control current instantaneously and a ripple component in the control current is reproduced faithfully in the gate current even when its frequency is higher than that of the power source.2"
"Several papers have been published on the correlation between the control characteristics of magnetic amplifiers and the magnetization characteristics of magnetic cores.1‾5 However, the approaches hitherto inaugurated on this subject of great importance have failed in elucidating the problem concerning the effect of control-circuit resistance (CCR) on the control characteristics of full-wave magnetic amplifiers, because of the lack of an appropriate understanding of the dynamic loop of the reactor core. In the case of the highly oriented magnetic core with rectangular hysteresis loop, the control-magnetization curve (CMC)6,7 coincides very well with the flux-control characteristics produced by direct-voltage reset.8,9 This experimental fact enables us to interpret CMC as the relation between the rate of flux change and the instantaneous magnetizing current."
"Shortly after the announcement1 of the invention of the Bell Solar Battery, Bell Telephone Laboratories undertook an exploratory development program with a twofold purpose. First, device designers wanted to learn how to make large quantities of silicon photodiodes, how to devise reliable connections to the active parts of the diode, and if possible, how to increase the realizable efficiency of conversion of sunlight to electricity. Second, system designers wished to find out how to use the new photodiodes in the most efficient and practical way in power plants for telephone equipment."
"One of the objectives of analyzing a system is to determine if there are periodic oscillations and, if so, what their amplitude and frequency will be; another objective is to determine the magnitudes of output errors and output powers, when the statistical character of the input signal and noises are known. Methods are given for calculating the output power and the error power for nonlinearities describ-able by power series for Gaussian and for certain other special kinds of input signals."
"The transference or effective gain of a piecewise linear component is derived. The output autocorrelation function of a clipper, a dead zone, and a general piecewise linear nondynamic component is obtained by a double integration of the second probability density. The output power is a sum of Gaussian error integrals. This can be divided into fundamental or correlated power, and distortion power due to lack of desired signal or presence of harmonics."
"Up to the present time, the completion of an incoming call to a private branch exchange (PBX) extension telephone has been dependent upon a human attendant. She must determine what extension station is desired and do the proper switching of the call from the incoming trunk to the station. Indialing provides a means whereby the call is dialed directly from the general exchange system to the PBX station without the need for a human attendant, except for transfer and information services."
"The conventional electric network, consisting of linear or one-dimensional RLC (resistance-inductance-capacitance) elements, may be generalized by adding to it planar-, cubic-, etc., up to k-dimensional RLC elements. The resultant geometrical configuration of 0-, 1-, 2-... to k-dimensional spatial networks interconnected into one structure is called, in combinatorial topology, a “polyhedron.” Its electric-network realization may be called a “wave model.” The electromagnetic structure formed by interconnecting two or more wave models into one network, will be called a “multidimensional space filter.” The latter is expected to be employed eventually for the theoretical and perhaps practical solution of such physical problems for which the conventional linear (one-dimensional) electric filter is used today, on a much more elaborate multidimensional scale, of course. A single polyhedron is expected to be used in the numerical solution of simpler multidimensional problems of the calculus of finite differences, having nonuniform space intervals."
"The inductance of an a-c magnet is a function of its coil as well as its magnetic structure. Hence, if the total equivalent permeance of the magnetic field is known, the inductance can be obtained from the equation $L = N^{2} p_{eq} (10^{-8}) \\eqno {\\hbox{(1)}}$ where L = inductance, henrys N = series turns in the coil peq = equivalent permeance, lines/ampere Because computing the permeance of even very simple fields is at best a laborious process, the permeance is generally most easily obtained from experimental tests on models. This paper describes a method in which the field of an a-c magnet is divided into a particular set of hypothetical components which can be simulated electrically with simple models. The permeance of each component field is obtained from a model which suits the component field, and the several permeances so obtained are superimposed to yield the permeance of the original field."
"This paper describes a special-purpose matrix inversion technique developed in the System-Planning Branch of TVA (Tennessee Valley Authority). This is the first known use of the method. It is particularly applicable to the inversion of matrices that describe power system impedances or admittances. As outlined, the technique is not entirely general. It requires division by elements of the major diagonal. Thus, when the element is being used as a divisor, it must not be zero. Under such a condition the digital program changes the sequence of calculations. However, a zero in the final diagonal position to be used will cause the matrix to be considered singular. The technique can be made more general but this is not necessary for most power system work."
"A picture of telephone engineers living in a college dormitory, eating in a college dining hall, and walking across a campus to classes on communications theory conducted by college professors is an intriguing one. This has been taking place during the past year in South Carolina. It is part of a new method of providing technical training to experienced telephone engineers developed by the School of Engineering of Clemson College and the engineering department of the Southern Bell Telepone and Telegraph Company."
"In this paper an analysis is presented of the emitter-coupled linear-time-delay circuit as well as a systematic design procedure which starts with a practical set of specifications. Some important fundamental limitations on the operation and design of the circuit are also presented. Experimental data are included to give an idea of the range of validity of the theory. A range of the ratio of maximum-to-minimum pulse width as high as several hundred has been obtained as compared with 10 or 20 obtainable from a similar vacuum-tube circuit. A ratio in excess of 30 was obtained with a deviation from linearity of less than 3%. Stages of this circuit have been successfully operated in cascade."
"Textbooks dealing with the subjects of transformer theory and design generally use the T-equivalent circuit to represent the inductive parameters of a transformer. This paper will point out a limitation of the T-equivalent circuit and will show that the Τ-equivalent circuit has no such limitation."
"Considerable difficulty is usually encountered by the novice in understanding how stored-program information-processing systems operate, and how they can be programed. While conventional teaching tools are definitely inadequate in this case, the use of a commercial computer for demonstrations does not provide an ideal solution either, because the machine tends to overwhelm the novice with its speed and complexity. A satisfactory solution has been found in SPUD (Stored-Program Universal Demonstrator), a stored-program relay machine designed specifically as a teaching aid, complicated enough to stimulate the novice but still easy to grasp in its entirety."
"It has been known for some time that long-distance (100-150 miles) very-high frequency propagation exists, and is capable of wide-band performance. This paper follows the empirical investigation of these fields to their ultimate use as signal sources for a community antenna system (CATV) and a television station (WSVA-TV)."
"There are four large-scale digital computers at Westinghouse Electric Corporation employed in making engineering calculations: one International Business Machine Corporation (IBM) 705 and three IBM 704's (Table I). This paper summarizes the experience with automatic coding systems at these four installations."
"As thermal deterioration of electrical insulating materials is directly connected with their lives it has been an important problem since electric machines and apparatuses were put to practical use. Nevertheless, a thorough study has not been made on the subject because quite a long time is required for testing the lives of the materials and also because numberless combinations and many working conditions of materials must be considered in order to get sufficient data concerning the problem. Moreover new insulating materials are rapidly appearing and it has become necessary for us to know their deterioration properties. Consequently, it is necessary to find a test method which will enable us to know these characteristics within a short period of time. Accordingly the authors intended to find the degradation of some kind of insulating materials with a mass spectrometer as it was impossible to detect a large quantity of deterioration products by the apparatus in general use.1 Kraft pulps were taken as samples first. In analyzing thermally generated gases from the samples, fundamental data were obtained in a short time by which thermal endurance of the materials could be concluded."
"In the field of automatic control, there is a need for simple and reliable devices which perform the operations of analog multiplication and division. This paper describes a circuit containing only-magnetic cores and windings, which produces an alternating voltage output directly proportional to the quotient of two d-c input signals. The output is also directly proportional to the alternating voltage used for excitation, which thus may be employed as a multiplier input signal, otherwise a regulated a-c supply is required. Since the circuit contains no semiconductors and is relatively insensitive to changes in the properties of the magnetic cores, it is well-adapted to operation at elevated temperatures."
"This paper describes a new transposition system designed to fulfill needs in Alabama. The system permits the use of much longer spans than those required by previous transposition designs intended for operation of carrier systems in the range up to 156 kc, and thereby provides for excellent economies in preparing open-wire toll lines for such facilities."
"The most practical present-day systems for determining the absolute position of reactor control rods without penetrating the pressurized enclosure are those which detect the position of magnetic material in the rod extension. It is the purpose of this discussion to describe such a system and to outline the solutions to some of the detail design problems encountered in its development."
"In the last few years, amplitudemodulated carrier telephone systems up to about 250 kc have been routed over polyethylene toll cables and frequencymodulated carrier telephone systems up to about 350 kc have been routed over entrance cable for open-wire circuits. Trunk cable carrier systems with top frequencies of 400 kc or more are under development. Study is being given to pulse-code-modulated cable carrier systems with top frequencies of a megacycle or more. The problems of crosstalk control and noise shielding at carrier frequencies have, therefore, become of prime importance."
"An electric analog of heat flow in alloyed-junction power transistors was constructed to facilitate a study of instantaneous crystal temperatures under various pulsed conditions. An equivalent Insertion transmission line using lumped constants was chosen as a suitable analog. The derivation of the transmission-line analog is given, along with construction and operating procedures. A short comparison of analog and experimental data is included."
"The stringent requirements for military aircraft electric systems necessitates the optimum utilization of the latest component developments. The circuitry described in this paper is intended to combine semiconductor diodes and transistors with square-loop magnetic cores in a manner that results in the maximum use of their desirable characteristics. The memory capability of square-loop magnetic cores and the switching characteristics of transistors are employed in a complementary manner. As a result, the following advantages are obtained: 1. The transistor-magnetic high-phase and low-phase sensing circuit inherently senses the “true average” value of the system alternating voltages. In other words, it senses the total amount of volt-seconds underneath the positive half cycles of the voltages. This is in contrast to conventional circuits which sense either the peak value or only a small fraction of the volt-seconds underneath the waveform. 2. Because only the switching characteristics of the transistors are utilized, circuit operation is practically independent of variations in transistor characteristics. 3. The circuits use only small, static, reliable, and rugged components. Capacitors, which are used in conventional circuits, are replaced in this circuit by square-loop magnetic cores which are less temperature sensitive and much more reliable."
"In varying degrees, the insulated conductors used in telephone cables require protection from mechanical damage, moisture, and electrical disturbance. From very early in the history of telephone circuits, lead sheath provided this protection."
"The deleterious effect of corona on the insulation of wires and cables subjected to high voltages has long been recognized. This basic work was undertaken to investigate the effects of corona on commercial Fawcett-type polyethylenes (branched high-pressure free-radical polymers) used as insulation in high-voltage (HV) applications. Two questions were to be answered. What are the factors involved in the design of an HV cable? What are the criteria for selecting the best polyethylene resin for this use?"
"Outside the high-density service areas in the central parts of cities, telephone operating companies in this country have, until recent years, found it economically necessary to use aerial distribution facilities. Open-wire construction in particular, with its high initial cost, high maintenance cost, and frequent service interruptions, offered a desirable area for development of a direct burial facility. Various efforts using rubber insulated wire with no outer protection failed, which led to the development of rubber insulated wires with neoprene jackets. Experience in certain areas indicated the need for additional mechanical and electrical protection so a light, flat ribbon steel armor is provided under the jacket in certain types of this wire."
"Recently work has been conducted on a medium-capacity high-speed magnetic-core memory, employing small ferrite cores as the storage element. In order to perform this work, it was necessary to conduct extensive tests on the behavior of ferrite cores at high repetition rates. The experimental results permit the establishment of criteria for use of linear or coincident-current selection techniques."
"Within the last decade, the use of the negative impedance type of repeater in the telephone plant has proved to be a very satisfactory device to improve transmission on circuits up to about 25 miles in length. This type of repeater is both simple and low in initial cost, and when properly installed, its operating and maintenenace cost is practically negligible."
"The performance of any system for detecting a noise-like signal in additive background noise is critically dependent on the statistics of the signal and the noise. In analyzing the performance of a given detector it is necessary to make assumptions regarding these statistics. The situations in which both the noise and the signal are Gaussian and stationary (or very nearly so) are quite numerous, and the assumption that such is the case has led to useful results. There are, however, situations where this assumption is not justified: fading signals and fluctuations in noise intensity are commonly encountered in practice.1 ‾7 In such cases, for short observation intervals the signal and the noise may often be regarded as Gaussian and approximately stationary and detectors can then be designed and analyzed on this assumption. However, if the observation interval is lengthened sufficiently in an attempt to increase the sensitivity of the detector, the inputs to the detector will eventually be nonstationary and the performance of the detector will differ from that expected for stationary inputs."
"This tutorial paper describes a simple design procedure which permits excellent simulation of cable performance employing a symmetrical lattice network containing a small number of elements. The problem is reduced to one of synthesizing 2-terminal impedances at two frequencies. The design technique is illustrated with applications to three lengths of a particular cable. The performance covering more than 2 decades of frequency shows a design error of less than 0.5% in both real and imaginary parts of the image impedance and propagation constant of the cable. With the aid of loading coils, such networks can be used to simulate the transmission characteristics of any type of loaded cable facility having any fractional length of end section."
"The 3-phase transistor-core power inverter described in this paper follows the trend away from mechanical devices toward lighter, more efficient, electronic equipment which, in most cases, are more reliable than the mechanical devices they replace. A single-phase transistor-core inverter has already replaced the mechanical multivibrator in one of our missile systems; it is only natural, then, for an electronic 3-phase inverter to follow as a power source for the 3-phase gyroscope motors which are part of the instrumentation in the same missile. This paper presents: 1. The need for a 3-phase inverter and discusses the reasons for the use of 3-phase gyroscope motors rather than d-c singlephase or 2-phase motors. 2. The waveshape characteristics of a 3-phase square-wave system and points out some of the system's limitations. 3. The operation of the 3-phase inverter which is an extended version of the one described by A. G. Milnes.1 4. The reasons for adding additional circuitry to Milnes' inverter to make it more stable over wide load ranges."
"Synopsis. A half-wave voltage-reset magnetic amplifier with a switching transistor in the control circuit is used as a core tester. Families of magnetizing current versus the magnitude of induced voltage with reset flux as a parameter are recorded. A graphical construction similar to the conventional one in the design of electronic amplifiers can yield the core behavior when operating in a 2-core magnetic amplifier, regardless of the magnitude of the control resistance."
"In the past, substation ground grids have been designed by rule-of-thumb methods. There is reason to believe that as a result of this, many were greatly over-designed whereas others gave a sense of security that was questionable."
"The influence of winding capacitance upon the performance of magnetic amplifiers is a matter of some concern. Although no systematic investigation has appeared in the literature, it is generally accepted in the art that such capacitances may be responsible for certain peculiarities in the transfer characteristic of the self-saturating magnetic amplifier. In this paper a lumped equivalent winding capacitance, connected across the winding terminals, is defined. An approximate, empirical formula is given for it for toroidal core windings. The concept of this equivalent capacitance is shown to be of some value in explaining the experimentally observed behavior of certain types of magnetic amplifiers."
"Amplification of a-c signals with magnetic amplifiers is generally more difficult than d-camplification. The conventional full-wave circuits, such as the doubler circuit and the bridge circuit, can yield high performance only by demodulating a-c signals and amplifying the resultant direct current. These circuits remain, in effect, d-c amplifiers and suffer from several shortcomings. For example, the sensitivity is limited by the forward voltage drops of the demodulating elements, the output is affected by d-c drifts of the control characteristics, and the component duplication and ineffeciencies of push-pull circuitry must be used to obtain phase sensitivity. The work of Ramey has led to the development in recent years of a number of high-speed magnetic amplifiers of the half-wave type. These circuits can amplify a-c signals without demodulation, but they also have certain shortcomings. The power gain per stage is generally less than the gain of full-wave circuits, the amplifiers remain subject to the effect of zero drift caused by unbalance of component characteristics, and low-level sensitivity is particularly difficult to obtain. Geyger has shown that the effect of amplifier zero drift on a-c servomotors (or other frequency discriminating output elements) can be eliminated by operating half-wave circuits at a carrier frequency several times the signal frequency.1 None of these circuits, though, entirely achieves the advantages relative to d-c amplification techniques which are associated with true a-c amplifiers."
"The increase in demand for communication service throughout the world has exceeded the rate of growth in population and the tremendous expansion of industrial activities.1 Both civilian and military requirements have grown beyond the expectations of those associated with the communication field. Along with this need for increased capacities in communication networks, the need has developed for more reliable, higher quality communication service. Military operations and the defense of a country are dependent on the ability to communicate rapidly and accurately. Likewise the operations of large industrial organizations are controlled by signals transmitted over long distances. With these factors in view the MM-600 radio relay system described in this paper was developed. It is intended for use in major communication networks to transmit large numbers of signals from one central location to another over distances up to 4,000 miles. It was designed for common-carrier-type applications where reliability, excellence of performance, and ease of maintenance are of paramount importance. New components such as travelling-wave tubes and solid state devices plus new concepts such as computer techniques have been integrated into proven methods to fulfill these requirements."
"The planners of aircraft operations, both commercial and military, have always required up-to-date information regarding predicted weather along flight paths and at destinations. The need for more timely weather information has been increasing for some years. On the commercial side the need has grown because of the increasing density of air traffic and the economic drive for more efficient aircraft operations. For the military side, apart from the constant drive for greater efficiency, the need has also been growing because of the increasing complexity of operations."
"This paper describes a process control of the triple-action positioning type; i.e., the control circuits provide variable proportioning, automatic reset, and rate actions to position a valve or other modulating device. The input or error signal is derived from a recording instrument of the null-balance type, which can be a potentiometer recorder operating from a thermocouple, a self-balancing resistance thermometer, or a pressure recorder operating from a strain-gage transducer."
"In the spring of 1956, the need arose in Quebec City to add a new English-language television station in order to supplement the existing service of CFCM-TV, in operation on channel four, and serving primarily the predominant French-speaking population."
"The application of multiple-channel communication circuits as provided by carrier and microwave radio systems has been steadily increasing in recent years in the attempt to satisfy the widespread consumer demands, public, private, and military included, for more and better telecommunication facilities. The use of these systems has solved many problems of expansion; however, in turn, the systems have introduced their own problems, in particular the increased susceptibility to interference, crosstalk, and noise as compared to physical voice frequency circuits."
"Before a system can be simulated on an operational analog computer, a passive-element analog computer, a digital differential analyzer, or a digital computer, it is necessary to derive or synthesize a set of differential equations which yield the response of the system to an arbitrary excitation. Every constant and function in the differential equations must be known."
"Due to the recent growth of telephone requirements in northern California, a constant search is being made for better methods of using the basic telephone facilities in this area. One of the facilities which was looked at was the cable pairs used by the K carrier systems. This system, by design, is a long-haul carrier. That is, it is designed to provide circuits that have transmission characteristics suitable for 4,000-mile circuits. However, since the capacity of this system is only 12 circuits it was seen to be advantageous to devise some method to increase the capacity of the cable pairs. The circuits derived by such an addition could be short-haul, of 100 to 200 miles. The requirements for new long-haul circuits are being filled by the L1, L3, TD2, and in the future, TH carrier systems. The objective then of examining the K carrier cable pairs was to provide a method of deriving additional short-haul voice channels on these same pairs. One of the stipulations for any method of accomplishing this, however, is that no degradation of the K carrier systems should result from the modification or addition. A second stipulation, since the need for the additional channels was fairly urgent, is that any instrumentality employed should use as much existing equipment as possible in order to minimize the development time. With these factors in mind, a study was started which eventually led to the development of the ON/K system. This paper describes the development and the use of these systems in the northern California area of the Pacific Telephone Company."
"The oj carrier system is designed to provide economically, on open-wire lines, additional circuits up to 500 miles in length of quality consistent for use in the nation-wide toll dialing network. It is a 12-channel system in the frequency range of 40 to 148 kc (kilocycles), capable of operation on the same wires with type C or type OA systems and on the same pole line with type J or similar systems. It is intended for the same field of use which type J has filled successfully and has been designed to give high quality transmission, freedom from service interruption and ease of maintenance. It employs miniature components for cost and space saving, and modern arts in the design of niters, equalizers, and amplifiers. Many of these components were taken from the O carrier system1 and hence the designation OJ for a system similar to O in its composition and occupying the type J field.2"
"Increased use of automatic operating techniques has created a greater demand for communications links to be used for telemetry, selective remote control, and supervisory control. Supervisory systems which had gained wide acceptance in electric utility operations have been applied to oil pipe lines. In a manner, these operations are also related to ticket reservation equipment used by railroads and airlines, and to transmitter remote supervision equipment used by standard broadcast stations. There are undoubtedly other examples. Whereever a commercial operation exists requiring very little human effort but constant human surveillance, fail-safe automatic equipment can be developed, and the operation can be supervised from a centralized remote-control location."
"A system for the transmission of binary digital data over telephone circuits has been developed for the SAGE (semiautomatic ground environment) System of air defense. This data transmission system had to meet stringent and varied requirements for data rate, error rate, general applicability, cost, and not least importantly, reliability in the face of enemy action. The nature of these and other requirements are discussed together with some of the history of the development program which led to the present solution. A detailed description of the data-transmission system now being installed throughout the nation is given. The conclusion contains a discussion of problems still remaining and some opinions of future trends in data-transmission systems for air defense and other applications."
"Synopsis. Accurate timing waves for the transmission and decoding of a kilobit per second data signal are generated by the use of tuning fork resonators in a flywheel-type of synchronization circuit. Accuracy of the derived timing wave is good enough that the timing jitter makes a negligible increase in the error rate. Synchronization is established in about 20 milliseconds prior to sending data."
"The characteristics of dead space are reviewed, and a method of converting the discontinuous nonlinearities of dead space to a linear characteristic or, at least to a continuous nonlinearity, is outlined."
"The sage (semiautomatic ground environment) system is a system of air surveillance and control designed to aid in the air defense of the continental United States. In this system of air surveillance, flight information is transmitted from radars and other sources to a central point where it is processed and evaluated to form a comprehensive picture of the air situation. This picture covers the search area of several radars, thus providing centralized surveillance of a sizable geographic area. The provision of this surveillance capability requires the evaluation of a large amount of information. In addition, to be of any practical use, the surveillance picture must not lag the actual air situation by any very appreciable interval of time. To accomplish this, the flight information must be gathered and evaluated very rapidly. This has been accomplished by minimizing the use of human beings in the surveillance system and leaning heavily on automatic methods. The various automatic data units in the SAGE System are, however, geographically scattered and must be interconnected so that they can process and exchange the flight information. This interconnection is made by special communication systems called data transmission systems which will be described herein."
"A circuit which consists of capacitance in series with an iron-core reactor, with or without other circuit elements, may be a ferroresonant circuit. Ferroresonance, as the term indicates, is resonance associated with circuits in which at least one of the circuit elements contains iron and which is a nonlinear inductive element. Resonance in any series circuit occurs where the inductive and capacitive reactances are equal. In a given series circuit of linear resistance, inductance, and capacitance, there is only one frequency of applied sinusoidal voltage at which resonance will occur; but at this frequency, resonance occurs at all values of applied sinusoidal voltage."
"Recent investigations, still being continued at Westinghouse, seem to indicate that careful observation of the detection theory, of the definition of digital systems, of the size of the signaling alphabet, and of the conversion process from low-pass signals to band-pass (carrier) signals may be extremely helpful for faster progress in applying information theory to digital communication systems."
"The efficiency of a block-checking system of data transmission, in which an answer-back block-checking signal is provided to acknowledge each block of characters, or to ask for a repeat if an error is detected, is investigated. Curves of data transmission efficiency, as a function of the number of characters in a message block, are shown to have sharper peaks as the distance and error probabilities are increased. For comparison, efficiency curves are plotted for a 7-bit single-error-detecting code and for a 10-bit single-error-correcting code. A family of curves of optimum block length is given for different probabilities of error and different reply times."
"To make magnetic amplifier theory mathematically tractable, numerous analyses which have appeared in the literature employ assumptions leading to either “ampere-turn control” or “volt-second control” idealizations. While either set of assumptions leads to quite good prediction of operation for simple saturable reactors, both simplified approaches break down at several important points when extended to self-saturating magnetic amplifiers. The regions of inadequate correlation have been explored extensively in recent years in terms of ampere-turn control, especially for self-saturating amplifiers exhibiting simple time delay. However, the limitations of the more recent volt-second control approach1,2 have received relatively little attention, especially for amplifiers exhibiting only dead-time (i.e., so-called “fast-response” amplifiers).3‾5"
"Modern business is embracing automation. In the business field, automation is often termed integrated data processing (IDP). This involves the use of large-scale digital computers as fundamental elements in the bookkeeping and routine activities of business. The communication system role in IDP is to transmit digital data from one location to another. This may involve sending data from subsidiary centers to a processing center or it may involve transmission of data from the central location to other business offices. The telephone companies are especially well fitted to handle the needs of business customers in this field because of their well-developed wire line distribution networks. The Bell System expects to offer digital transmission services over normal telephone lines. This is the Bell System Dataphone Service."
"In the sage (semiautomatic ground environment) System,1,2 the function of converting the data in the form generated or used by the processing equipment to a form suitable for transmission over the communication channel is performed by the terminal apparatus of the Western Electric Al digital data signaling system. The major components of the terminals, as shown in the simplified diagram of Fig. 1, are the digital data transmitter (DDT) and the digital data receiver (DDR). At the originating terminal, the data source furnishes three separate components of information to the transmitter: timing, data, and start. The timing component is a continuous sine wave of either 1,300 or 1,600 cps (cycles per second), depending upon the bit rate, which provides means for synchronizing the system. Message information, contained in the data component, is in the form of dipulses. (A dipulse is one complete cycle of the timing wave per bit, which, in telegraph terminology, represents a mark. Absence of a dipulse in the data component represents a space.) The start component consists of single dipulses which group the data into words."
"The consolidated edison company of new York is building a nuclear electric generating station on the Hudson River at Indian Point about 24 miles north of New York City. Fig. 1 is an aerial perspective sketch indicating the general arrangement of the completed plant."
"The desirability of replacing the mechanical commutators now used in many telemetering systems by special electric circuits is generally recognized.1 This desirability is enhanced in rocket, missile, and satellite applications by the demand for high reliability and long life in the face of stringent environmental conditions, e.g., high g forces. The present paper describes such a commutating circuit. This circuit offers several advantages: 1. Mechanical commutation is eliminated. 2. The amplitude variations of the signal sources are encoded as rectangular pulses of variable width but constant height. This feature is particularly advantageous when low signal-to-noise ratios are encountered in the communication link. 3. Considerable power gain is afforded. 4. Solid-state devices, i.e., square-loop cores, transistors, and rectifiers, are used exclusively, hence the circuit can be potted and made very rugged."
"The development of solid-state 2- and 3-terminal switching devices has made possible the design of physically small linear power amplifiers which have a large power-handling capability. Two-and 3-terminal switching devices will be referred to as “dynistors” and “trinistors” throughout most of this paper. Germanium dynistors and trinistors make excellent output devices for the linear power amplifier because: 1. The OFF state impedances are approximately 50,000 ohms; 2. The ON state impedances are approximately 0.05 ohm; 3. The dynistors and trinistors can be operated at much higher current densities than transistors; 4. The dynistors and trinistors need only a pulse to turn on. Once the dynistor or trinistor is on, the device can be turned off by reducing the current through it to a very small value. The characteristics of the germanium dynistor and trinistor are summarized in Appendix I."
"The pacific coast microwave development during the early formative years could hardly be considered a network in its own right. Although a relatively large use of microwave was planned at this time, the planning was limited to short systems with unquestionable economic advantages over competing facilities."
"An analysis is given for the behavior of the ferroresonant series circuit containing a reactor with 50% NiFe grain-oriented core material. Consideration is given to several different kinds (or modes) of steady-state circuit response at fundamental as well as at subharmonic frequencies for both sinusoidal and square-wave applied voltages. Conditions are derived which are necessary for the stable existence of these modes, and methods are given for the study of the transient processes by which these various steady-state modes are attained."
"A new small crossbar telephone system called the 756A private branch exchange (PBX) was recently developed for business establishments requiring no more than 60 lines to PBX telephone stations and ten trunks to a telephone central office. Distinguishing features of this new PBX are the small size and attractive appearance of the cabinets for the PBX attendants and the switching equipment. These cabinets have colors and finishes that blend with modern office decor so they can be located satisfactorily adjacent to office furniture."
"An essential objective of a pulse transmission system is the preservation of some aspect of the pulse shape at the receiver. The phase characteristics of a system, which can generally be neglected in voice transmission, become important in pulse systems, since the shape of a pulse is influenced greatly by the phase of the energy components of the pulse spectrum. A quantity frequently used in describing this influence is the 6372915group delay” or “envelope delay.” It is a measure of the relative phase shift experienced by neighboring components of the frequency spectrum and is equal to the slope of the tangent to the phase curve at any given frequency. If the phase shift changes linearly with frequency, the envelope delay is constant across the band, and there is no delay distortion. When the envelope delay varies with frequency, however, the shape of a pulse is degraded or distorted in transmission. This variational component of envelope delay will be called the delay distortion."
"The utilization of very-high-frequency (vhf) and ultrahigh-frequency (uhf) radio facilities to provide short-haul toll, rural subscriber, or other point-to-point communication systems has answered the demands for modern telephone facilities in small isolated locations. In October 1957, The Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company of Maryland combined two radio-carrier terminals and associated central office equipment to provide three communities on Smith Island, Md., as shown on Fig. 1, with the latest dial telephone service."
"While radio communication to airplanes has been in everyday use for many years, until September 15, 1957, the only public telephone service available to aircraft has been that furnished through coast stations which have been established for the provision of telephone service to ships. Approximately 600 aircraft are registered for service through coast stations operating in the 2-mc (megacycle) frequency range. The service is not satisfactory in many respects. It is not available in many inland areas and due to the crowded conditions on the marine channels fast-moving aircraft are frequently unable to receive any service before landing at their destination. In addition, atmospheric noise at these frequencies seriously limits the range and reliability of the service. Even with these limitations the service has grown as shown in Fig. 1."
"Increasing use of the common-carrier microwave-frequency bands at 4 and 6 kmc (kilomegacycles) has directed attention to the next higher band at 11 kmc. All three bands are subject to atmospheric fading, but propagation at 11 kmc differs from that at the lower frequency bands chiefly in its vulnerability to rain. Knowledge of the statistics of the excess path loss caused by rain is a necessary prerequisite to 11-kmc system design, and therefore an experiment was undertaken to extend the modest body of available knowledge."
"During the past 3 years new problems in audio amplifier design have arisen as a result of using low-distortion high-power audio amplifiers for driving electrodynamic vibration exciters.1 Modern vibration testing procedures require that random noise forces be used to excite the test specimens. This requirement has arisen from efforts to reproduce the actual environments occurring in airborne guided missiles.2,3"
"In the designer approach to transistor servo-amplifier design, only limited consideration has been given to direct coupling. This is particularly true in applications involving operation over a wide temperature range. This paper discusses design and performance relationships and d-c stability considerations for a 2-stage direct-coupled preamplifier capable of d-c operating-point stability and high gain at temperatures in excess of 125 C (degrees centigrade)."
"The “operational amplifier” as it is usually referred to in computer terminology has proved its versatility and usefulness as the backbone of modern electronic differential analyzers. In a rapidly increasing number of engineering offices, schools, and laboratories, these devices are available either in small computing installations or as separate plug-in units. It is the purpose of this paper to describe briefly their operation and to show how their usefulness may be extended beyond the usual computing applications. The applications described are suggested by a point of view which is certainly not new, but which does not seem to have been exploited to its fullest extent."
"There is a considerable body of literature on the theoretical and experimental characteristics of 2- and 3-terminal p-n-p-n negative resistance switches.1‾4 This paper describes a 2-impurity simultaneous-diffusion process for producing structures in silicon which are suitable for 2- or 3-terminal signal and power p-n-p-n switches (“controlled rectifiers”); the properties of the devices produced by this process are discussed in the following."
"This paper was written to present an operating engineer's viewpoint of a particular nation-wide dialing installation from its conception to its realization. Providence, R. I., was chosen as subject of this presentation as this city appears to be typical of many others that are in service or proposed. Providence was chosen also because here is found utilization of a wide variety of the available instrumentalities and plans to incorporate probable future instrumentalities."
"Shannon's coding theorem for a noisy channel1 indicates that information can be transmitted as reliably as desired in the presence of noise, provided the transmitted rate does not exceed the channel capacity. In unidirectional systems the reliability may be improved by increasing the code length or the redundancy of the message."
"The recently developed lenkurt type 74A microwave system is designed for a capacity of 240 telephone channels per radio circuit over short-haul routes. Economic considerations in systems planning were based upon achieving a cost per circuit-mile which would compare favorably with new toll cable installations. Fig. 1 shows two views of a basic terminal."
"The reactance modulator that uses one or two diodes to control the current in a capacitor is analyzed with the assumption of lossless circuit elements. Universal curves of susceptance, conductance, and control current, as functions of control voltage, are calculated for three basic circuits."
"During the course of work on an electromechanical analog computer it was necessary to convert frequencies in the range of 2 to 20 kc into shaft rotations. The shaft rotation had to be proportional to frequency with a departure from linearity of less than ±0.1% of full scale. The circuit was required to operate over the temperature range of —55 to +55 C (degrees centrigrade)."
"The concept of a power reactor which would use an organic fluid as the moderator and coolant has been considered an attractive possibility for several years. This concept suggested itself because of the many physical properties of organic fluids which are superior to those of water when used as the moderator in a nuclear reactor."
"It is found that an avalanche transistor biased into the negative resistance range will deliver an exponentially increasing current into a capacitor connected between the emitter and collector. For a uniform base layer of width W, minority carrier diffusion constant D, emitter efficiency γ, collector capacitor Cc, load capacitor C, and avalanche multiplication M, the current builds up as exp λ t where $\\lambda = (D/W^{2}) [cosh^{-1} \\gamma MC/(C+C_{c})]^{2}-\\nu$ where v is the reciprocal of the minority carrier lifetime. The time required for a voltage drop from near breakdown voltage to about 89% of breakdown voltage is about W2/4D provided Cc/C < 1 and γ is nearly unity; the rate of drop of voltage is substantially equal to 2VBD/(n + 1)W2 after the voltage has dropped from near VB to below 90% VB where n is the exponent in 1/M = 1-(VC/VB)n. If the ratio of C/Cc is too small, the collector voltage will not “bottom,” i.e., drop to the base voltage; means of estimating the critical size of the capacitor are given. The analysis is based on an integral equation involving stored minority carrier charge in the base layer, which may be useful in other transient problems of transistors."
"Many optimization problems in the communications field are characterized by the fact that they involve large numbers of highly interconnected variables. This has forced communications engineers, planners, and managers to resort to various suboptimization schemes, many of which have been of the empirical or trial-and-error types. This situation has in large part been caused by the lack of adequate mathematical and numerical techniques for analyzing and solving such problems."
"A pile oscillator is a device that periodically varies the neutron population in a nuclear reactor. The population change may occur as a localized variation in neutron density, or the density of neutrons throughout the reactor may be caused to vary in a systematic manner. Such a variation may be effected by a periodic oscillation of the multiplication constant, keff, of the reactor. The required changes in keff have been achieved in reactor oscillators by mechanical oscillations of either absorbers or reflectors located in or near the core."
"The semiconductor art is expanding at an exceedingly fast rate. New devices are being developed continually so that the use of even the famous transistor is beginning to decrease in some areas of application. The controlled rectifier is one of the most exciting of these new devices. This device was commercially introduced by the General Electric Company early in 1958 and has been in production ever since. Since the controlled rectifier is capable of performing many of the functions of magnetic amplifiers and thyratrons, it represents another tool with which the engineer should be acquainted. The degree to which this is accomplished will determine the new horizons which are possible in the application area."
"Major difficulties are encountered when d-c amplifiers are used to amplify low-level low-frequency signals. These difficulties are mainly problems of zero-drift and noise. One of the most successful techniques in circumventing the drift and noise problems is to convert the low-frequency intelligence to a frequency permitting conventional a-c amplification. The means for accomplishing the frequency conversion have been mainly mechanical: choppers, vibrating capacitors, and similar devices. These devices, by their very nature, must be operated at relatively low sampling rates and are subject to the usual failures of moving equipment."
"Feedback techniques are receiving considerable attention in the magnetic-amplifier field and many ways have been suggested in which the output quantity can be chosen and employed to modify the controlling action of the signal. This paper examines and compares a variety of feedback configurations that are associated with 2-core full-wave self-saturating amplifiers. A companion paper, Part II, extends the study to combined feedbacks, as used in \"self-balancing\" amplifiers.1"
"Obtaining the transient response of linear systems is fundamentally a problem involving the solution of the differential equations which describe the behavior of the system. These equations can be solved by the use of classical methods, operational calculus, or by applying the Laplace transformation."
"In the design of control systems for nuclear reactors, detailed knowledge of the rate of change of temperature in the reactor core is a very important factor. To evaluate this temperature as a function of time, it is necessary to determine both the heat added from the nuclear reaction itself, and the heat rejected through the cooling medium and through losses. The ability of the cooling medium to remove heat from the reactor is dependent upon the rate of coolant flow. This paper describes an application of a digital computer for computing coolant flow under various transient conditions which may arise during normal operation or during emergencies. The method used takes into account the following factors: 1. Inertia of the coolant fluid. 2. Inertia of rotating equipment (pumps and motors). 3. Frictional pressure drops in the flow paths. 4. Pump head flow characteristics. 5. Friction and windage losses in pumps and motors. 6. Transient effects in the rotor circuits of the pump motors."
"The use of phase-locked oscillator control loops for the detection and tracking of signals in the presence of noise is well known and has been extensively analyzed.1‾4 Two completely transistorized phase-locked oscillator systems have been developed which perform these functions. System I operates at an input center frequency of 10.5 kc, and system II operates at 30 megacycles."
"This bibliography covers domestic and foreign literature for the year 1957. Some articles from the year 1956, not previously listed, are also included. The patents listed cover those issued between July 1956 and December 1957. Earlier magnetic amplifier literature is covered in a Magnetic Amplifier Applications Subcommittee report covering the literature for the years 1951 through 1956.16"
"This paper describes, analyzes, and presents performance data on a reversible-polarity d-c power amplifier suitable for reversing drive of d-c motors in sizes up to 1 horsepower (limited only by presently available components) as well as for a wide range of additional applications including servomechanisms. Full-load and light-load efficiencies, output impedance, power gain, and other characteristics compare favorably with those of the rotating-amplifier-type motor-generator sets. The system under discussion, being completely static, can be expected to show significant advantages in reliability and ability to withstand a wide range of adverse environments. Limitations on size are practical rather than theoretical and may be expected to become less stringent as transistor technology improves and as further developments occur in areas such as switched silicon diodes."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the title page of this issue of the periodical."
"This paper is a discussion of the need to broaden the base of test procedures relating to enameled magnet wires. At present, the AIEE Publication no. 57, revised in 1959, establishes a method for determining the relative life of enameled wires as a function of thermal stability.1 Also available to air evaluation are the AIEE test procedures 65, 510, and 511.2 These are intended for evaluation of systems of which magnet wire insulations are an integral part. Experience is showing the desirability of providing acceptable test procedures for determining the relative life and the practicability or suitability of magnet wires as functions of other characteristics. Of importance, in this respect, are: 1. compatibility of the wire enamels with other substances, both of insulating function and environmental in nature, which are present in a complete electrical system, 2. thermoplastic flow properties, 3. heat shock characteristics, 4. change of reaction rate of aging properties with increase in temperature, 5. heat softening after extended aging, 6. retention of flexibility after aging, and 7. winding problems reflected in abrasion resistance, flexibility, reaction to rapid elongation, etc."
"The object of this paper is to describe a method for synthesizing function matrices from logical conditions and for detecting redundancy prior to designing the network. Accordingly the paper discusses the following: 1. the definition of function matrices and logical operations; 2. the expansion of logical functions in view of additional logical conditions imposed by another variable; and 3. minimization routines."
"This paper presents the final portion of a study to extend the volt-second control approach in considering the effects of signal circuit resistance and nonideal flux-current loops for fast-response magnetic amplifiers.1,2"
"Unprecedented service demands on the telephone operating companies have emphasized the need for an economical means to extend transmission ranges and to permit the reduction of cable gages in local office areas. As a result, considerable interest has developed in the negative-impedance-type repeater, recently introduced and now finding wide application by the Bell System."
"This paper represents a look at telephone development around the world. Emphasis is placed on some outstanding European contributions to the art of telephone transmission. An appraisal of telephone growth potential in the lesser developed countries is also included."
"Insulating Materials have become increasingly the subject of serious study within recent years. Seven books1‾7 and at least ten full-scale reviews8‾17 on insulating materials have appeared within the last 10 years. These do not include a monthly trade paper, Insulation, dedicated wholly to the subject,18 or the annual Digest of the Literature on Dielectrics, published by the Conference on Insulation of the National Research Council.19"
"Traffic data for engineering of telephone switching equipment is usually derived from traffic measurements extended over as large a number of circuit groups and as long periods of observation as practical. The quantities of equipment required in circuit subgroups are then based on the average traffic, prorated to the particular subgroup. The factors governing this averaging process will be analyzed under case I. The converse process, where the total traffic is estimated from observation on a few sample subgroups, is less often used in engineering equipment quantities. In latter instance, Case II, standard methods of statistical estimation are applicable, with additional adjustments which correspond to those discussed herein."
"At present, there are many varied types of paging systems on the market which are applicable to the many types of services or industries requiring paging systems. Each of these, whether they be audio, inductive loop, r-f (radio-frequency), light, bell, or any other type of system, has certain advantages and limitations. The results of a comprehensive investigation of the paging field showed that there was a definite need and a market for a selective r-f paging system. In many instances such a system could adequately replace, with improved operation, the existing type of system. In other instances it could advantageously supplement an existing paging system with a resultant improvement in the overall paging operation."
"In the Allentown-Bethlehem area of Pennsylvania, the strange sound of a low whistle issuing from the coat pocket of a pedestrian (who will, on hearing it, probably seek the nearest telephone and dial a number) might be mystifying to the uninitiated. But to the pedestrian from whose pocket the whistle actually came, it represents a new Bell system telephone service that for some time has been functioning in this area."
"In two other papers Kraus1 and Young2 describe in some detail the operational and equipment features of 35-mc (megacycle) amplitude-modulated systems for providing one-way selective signaling service. This paper covers a number of the problems associated with the planning and evaluation of systems operating in either the 35- or 150-mc range which might be used to provide city-wide coverage. Fig. 1 is a simplified schematic of a signaling system and illustrates three of the major areas to be discussed. These areas are the pocket receiver, the radio transmission path, and finally the central office facilities."
"This paper develops a method of choosing the core required for transformers which must handle random-noise voltages. Experimental verification of this method is briefly described. The early portion of the paper describes briefly some of the characteristics of random noise and outlines the method of calculating the random current produced in a complex impedance by a random voltage."
"There is a continuing need for improvement in all types of electric equipment. New applications call for higher operating temperatures, better reliability, smaller size, lighter weight, and little, if any, increase in cost. At the present level of design perfection, new materials having better properties are often required for making equipment which can handle higher voltages, or more power per pound or per cubic foot."
"As a part of work performed on a government contract, magnet-wire materials were investigated for application in electronic power transformers and inductors. One of the most critical environments specified for the application was 1,000-hour life in the ambient temperature range - 65 C (degrees centigrade) to 500 C. This paper summarizes the planning and results of an ultrahigh-temperature heat-aging program designed to screen selectively the most promising magnet wires to meet this requirement."
"Spontaneous polarization of barium-titanate (BaTiO3) ceramics has been noted in research for its ferroelectricity and for its practical use. It is natural that a great deal of interest has been attached to spontaneous polarization as the property is quite essential in the ferroelectric phenomena. Nevertheless when measurements of residual polarization of BaTiO3 were being made, the authors found that a very large amount of polarization occurred at times and it could not be attributed to spontaneous polarization in any case.1 Blood and his co-workers2 also found large residual polarization more than 150 μcoul/cm2 (microcoulomb/centimeter2) in BaTiO3 ceramics accompanied by the anomalous phenomena in piezoelectric oscillation. After examining the phenomena it was recognized that some sort of polarization should be superposed upon the proper spontaneous polarization. As such phenomena are never favorable to the practical use of ferroelectric substance, investigations have been made especially to find a way to diminish their effect. Thus it was found that the mixing ratio of raw materials of the ceramics seemed to have a remarkable relation to the anomalous polarization, and the reduction of BaTiO3 seemed to exist in accompaniment with such phenomena. The result obtained is reported in this paper."
"Hydrogen thyratrons are used as switching tubes in line-type pulsers in most high-power radar equipment.1,2 A lumped-constant transmission line is repetitively charged to a high voltage and discharged by firing the hydrogen thyratron to provide pulses of power to the radio-frequency oscillator tube. The transmission time of the resulting high-frequency pulses to the object scanned and back to the receiver is the mechanism by which distances are measured by the radar equipment."
"It is felt that 4-terminal network theory is potentially of great value in the analysis of problems in the non-electrical realm and problems which are only partially electrical. In attempting to apply 2-port theory however,1,2 some perplexing difficulties arise. These appear to the author basically to be due to somewhat loose habits of thought in defining impedance and admittance on the basis of purely electrical concepts without due regard for their significance in other domains."
"The recent growth of automation and the handling of data by machines have resulted in a growing need for data communication between terminals separated by many miles. Both the trend toward decentralization of business and the tendency toward centralized data-processing centers have contributed to this need. One solution to the problem of providing effective data communication is to use the telephone network which makes the interconnection of almost any two points in the country feasible."
"Chemical, industrial, and mechanical progress have increased the incidence of cases requiring artificial respiration in industrial, military, and civilian spheres. The danger from electricity is a potent factor in all of these situations."
"In the summer of 1953, a Working Group on Thermal Stability of Insulating Materials was organized under the sponsorship of the AIEE Subcommittee on Electrical Insulation (formerly the Dielectrics Committee) of the Basic Sciences Committee. In January 1954 a task force on the Evaluation of the Thermal Stability of Enameled Magnet Wire was appointed and it was given the responsibility of developing a test procedure."
"The name silicon-controlled rectifier has been given to a new 3-terminal semiconductor device which has electrical characteristics similar to a thyratron. This device has been developed by the Semiconductor Products Department of the General Electric Company and has been given the developmental designation ZJ-39A. Its characteristics are made possible through the use of a p-n-p-n junction configuration. It is capable of handling load currents up to 16 amperes average at peak voltages up to 300 volts. Its fast switching action, small size, and relatively high-current ratings make this new device adaptable to a great many applications. Its characteristics and ratings, which are of utmost importance to the circuit designer, are the subject of this discussion."
"The recommendations of the International Telegraph Consultative Committee (CCIT) and International Radio Consultative Committee (CCIR) now extend into virtually every phase of communications, and are becoming of increasing significance to the radio-relay engineer. Of particular interest is the hypothetical reference circuit proposed as a guide for system design. It is pointed out that recommendations with respect to this reference are intended primarily for international circuits, and do not necessarily apply to all operational conditions. Optimum design would suggest that limits be established on the basis of actual performance requirement."
"Since communication or radar systems, like all systems involving human activity, are subject to the laws of profit and loss, their performance may be evaluated on a scale of economic utility values. A utility evaluation may be conducted with the aid of D. Bernoulli's Law of Diminishing Marginal Utility.1"
"During the last decade and a half in particular, the use of teletypewriters on leased lines has grown very rapidly. The Bell System now has more than 50,-00 such teletypewriter stations in service. In order to obtain the most communication for the least over-all cost, it is common practice, where the traffic load on the line will permit, to operate several stations on the same line. This results in a significant reduction in line cost compared with a line facility for each pair of stations. However, such multistation lines involve operating complications which somewhat offset the lower cost."
"A recent study of magnetic-amplifier theory based on block-diagram techniques1 suggested to this author that one potentially useful basic technique for extracting the output information from the simple self-saturating magnetic amplifier had been seriously neglected in the past. Although it is a well-recognized fact that the output information in a self-saturating magnetic amplifier is contained in the half-cycle average voltage across the gate winding, independent of power-supply variations, most of the conventional magnetic-amplifier circuits are so arranged as to make the output voltage proportional to the difference between the average gate voltage and the average supply voltage. (Subsequent to the preparation of this paper, Rosenstein published a description of a transactor2 which bears a family resemblance to the shunt-coupled circuit described in this paper.) The afore-mentioned study of the theory revealed that some definite advantages could be derived by utilizing the average gate voltage directly as the output quantity. One obvious advantage, of course, results from the fact that this “output voltage” is thereby made independent of the regulation of the power-supply voltage. More important advantages, however, can be realized when the gate voltage is used to drive a subsequent stage of a multistage amplifier. It is shown later that the application of shunt coupling to a 2-stage magnetic amplifier effectively circumvents the traditional interstage coupling problems and yields an amplifier with all the advantages and few of the disadvantages of conventional 2-stage amplifiers."
"Nuclear power has become a reality. The theory and classical experiments of half a century have been assembled and within the last decade have provided mankind with a new source of power. The problem of handling and controlling this new process is a monument in itself to technical ingenuity of the American engineer. At this stage of the art one cannot judge the nuclear power plant as a simple system, but with new technique and every day improvements this new industry will be established on an economical basis."
"A previous paper1 has presented a steady-state and transient analysis of various types of feedback, magnetic or electric, applied to a self-saturating bridge or center-tap amplifier. This paper is a brief extension of that treatment to certain combinations of a positive magnetic feedback and a negative electric feedback as used by Geyger in \"voltage-balance\" and \"current-balance\" potentiometer-type amplifier circuits.2-4 The essential principle of these feedback combinations is well-known: The positive magnetic feedback reduces the control winding current, while the negative electric feedback insures stability and linearity without modifying the current requirements of the control winding. Two examples are shown in the schematics of Appendixes I and II. (The symbols and terminology are those used consistently in reference 1 and shall not be restated in detail.)"
"One of the most significant advances in the record communications industry occurred during World War II. This was not so much a technological advance, although this certainly occurred, but a change in operational requirements. The sheer bulk of communications which is required to control adequately and to support a highly mobile combat force plus the difficult communications problems which are posed by such mobile operations early dictated the requirement for more efficient and reliable communications than could be provided by conventional voice circuits. Voice communications are beset by the disadvantages of a relatively low transmission rate and an inherently high transcription error, plus the requirement for a relatively good communications circuit. Consequently, the volume of traffic which is assigned to ripnted record communications has steadily increased until currently the use of voice communications is largely limited to short-range command functions; it is conceivable that, in the not too distant future, even this function will be supplanted by highly portable printing telegraph systems."
"Why is industry starting and expanding programs to educate its young engineers beyond the level where formal education left off? Why is it reviewing the education of its older engineers and giving them further training? Are not the great universities offering their students the proper curriculums?"
"Integral transformations are defined by the expression $(p) = \\int^{b}_{a} {f(x)k(p, x)dx} \\eqno {\\hbox{(1)}}$ where K(p, x) is termed the transformation kernel. Theoretically a wide variety of functions could serve as kernels, and an infinite number of transformations could be generated. However, only a limited number of kernels possess those properties which make their transforms useful for the solution of practical problems."
"The purpose of this paper is to discuss a nuclear design technique for a nuclear power reactor. It is felt that this area of reactor design is not as well-known in the engineering profession as, for example, power plant systems or control systems."
"It is well known that both the human and the dog's heart may be thrown into ventricular fibrillation by 60-cycle a-c shocks, resulting in the cessation of circulation followed by death. There are, however, little data available as to the magnitude of the current of various durations that will result in fibrillation, nor is there much information as to how the induction of fibrillation is influenced by the timing of the shock in the heart cycle. Ferris, Williams, Spence, and King1 found that the sheep's heart was most vulnerable to shocks that fell during the T phase of the electrocardiogram of the heart."
"In this paper formulas are developed, on the basis of simple physical conceptions, for the calculation of eddy currents in solid and laminated iron, which, as the experiments presented show, enable the losses caused by eddy currents to be predicted with surprising accuracy. A simple formula for the calculation of the power factor (pf) that the magnetic circuit reflects into the magnetizing winding is also presented."
"One phase of electrical measurements which is rapidly becoming more important and requiring higher degrees of accuracy is the measurement of voltage ratio. Conventional 4-arm bridge techniques are often used where two impedances are connected in series, energized from either or both of the voltages whose ratio is being measured, and adjusted so that the voltages across them exactly match the two being compared, both in magnitude and phase angle. The voltage ratio can easily be computed if the characteristics of the impedances are known. Sze has developed a system which uses this technique and will measure voltage ratio with an accuracy of about 50 parts per million (ppm) and phase angle to 0.2 minute at frequencies up to 10,000 cycles per second (cps).1"
"Since 1952, when the solderless wrapped connection first was described publicly,1 its use in telephone central offices has grown steadily. Several hundred million solderless connections are being wrapped annually in the Bell System today, and the growth is continuing."
"An automatic dial teleprinter exchange service was placed in operation in May 1958, through which subscribers in New York City may obtain direct teleprinter connections, in a matter of seconds, to over 1,200 subscribers throughout Canada."
"The development of carbon-film resistors since World War II has provided the electronics industry with a reasonably priced semiprecision resistor.1,2 The film resistors are smaller, lighter, cheaper, and have better frequency characteristics than precision wire-wound resistors. They are not as accurate as precision wire-wound resistors, and the temperature coefficient is still undergoing improvement, but the film resistor can perform an important function in filling the needs for a semiprecision resistor.3"
"The measurement of a-c corona loss in laboratory test setups is frequently necessary when the magnitude of the loss is so small that wattmeter instruments cannot be used. An accurate, rapid means using only one measurement from a voltage-charge diagram is presented in this paper."
"Today the magic of television takes a teacher instantly to as many classrooms as desired. She appears before vast numbers of pupils not only with her voice, but with her material and her gestures, instructional ability, and personality intact. The principal missing element is the ability to know her pupils and to gage her pace by their reactions. Unseen and unheard, they lack presence."
"The development of pulsed radar created a need for a relatively new type of transformer, one that transforms the energy in a pulse with an approximately rectangular shape and a time duration in the order of microseconds.1 A good deal of experimental work has been done in this field, which has evolved a trial and error method of designing pulse transformers.1‾3 This method is tedious and time consuming since it involves the use of many interdependent mathematical calculations and the necessity of making these same calculations over and over again before a satisfactory design is obtained."
"Tapered transmission lines have been found to be useful for pulse-transformer service.1,2 It is the object of this paper to develop a new theory for the optimization of the taper which is based upon the transient rather than the steady-state response of the transmission-line pulse transformer. A criterion for the optimum taper will be established and then applied in a special case in which both ends of the line are nominally matched. Finally, the case of general terminations at both the input and output will be discussed."
"Tapered transmission lines are frequently used in communications engineering to transform voltages and impedances. Much has been done in the steady-state analysis1‾12 of these devices. The need remains, however, for a theory of the optimum taper based upon transient considerations because of intrinsic limitations of any steady-state theory. Steady-state treatments are sufficient for a-c applications, but are difficult to apply meaningfully to transient phenomena. Very little has been done in the realm of tapered-transmission line transient analysis. An analysis for exponential tapers has appeared in the literature,13‾16 but there has been no attempt to find the optimum taper from transient considerations."
"By modification of a 3-wire single-phase meter, a single-stator watt-hour meter has been developed for the measurement of two phases of a 4-wire Y 3-phase distribution system. The paper discusses the modifications of the meter together with its performance characteristics."
"The trend to miniaturization of components and the expanding use of transistor circuitry in communication equipment has necessitated the development of new protection measures capable of limiting foreign potentials and currents to values much lower than has heretofore been necessary."
"The last 30 years cover a period marked by outstanding advances in certain areas of electrical insulation. This period begins with what might be termed the synthetic-chemical age and ends with the beginning of the space age. Specifically, the paper records briefly the progress made in the theoretical phase of the field, the development of new insulating materials, the revision of the electrical insulation temperature standards, and the application of insulating materials to power equipment. The progress made in the development of materials, many of which were unheard of 30 years ago, has been truly phenomenal. This has resulted in marked advances in the design of new equipment. A few of these advances in the power field are discussed. Progress made in insulation temperature standards has resulted in new revolutionary methods of rating insulating materials and systems of materials as used in electric equipment. This has enabled the electrical industry to take better advantage of the host of new synthetic materials developed during the period covered by this review. This period may be characterized as one in which research and development in the insulation-materials area has, in a marked way, stimulated radical advances in design, reliability, and performance of electrical equipment. No radically new advances were made in the theoretical phase of the field, but the gradual progress made in the underlying theories has contributed considerably to our understanding of dielectric phenomena, especially in the liquid- and solid-state areas."
"The need for automatic visual display of numerical information has grown rapidly in recent years. As a result, at least a dozen different numerical indicators are now available. Each will show any one of the ten Arabic numerals when actuated by the proper pattern of electrical signals. Some show painted numerals by electromechanical means; others use optical projection, masked lamps, edge-lighted plastic sheets, matrices of incandescent or neon lamps, numerically shaped wires in neon lamps, or cathode-ray tubes to indicate the desired numerals. Some distribute the ten numerals along a vertical line; some stack the numerals in depth, and some show each and every numeral in the same space and on the same plane. The device described here uses an electroluminescent phosphor to form a truly planar numerical indicator."
"There are a number of instances in the operation of electric apparatus in which the physical situation may be approximated by a configuration in which a plane electrode conducts current which is received from or delivered to a cylindrical conducting path normal to its surface. Among these instances the most familiar examples are cases in which the conducting path is an ionized column resulting from sparkover (breakdown) of a solid, liquid, or gaseous dielectric between conductors, or the process of arc formation by the separation of initially juxtaposed conducting surfaces between which current is flowing. Typical situations correspond to circumstances accompanying insulation failures in apparatus, relay contact “breaks,” circuit-breaker operations, and to the sparkover phenomena utilized in electric spark machining.1–2 In each of these situations craters are formed on the electrode surface. Considerable attention3–5 has been given to the phenomena of crater formation for obvious reasons. Formation of the craters has been attributed to various causes1,5,6 and, indeed, the predominant cause may vary, depending on conditions of current formation, duration and magnitude, and on current-density distribution in the ionized column. In at least one range of physically realizable circumstances current density beneath the surface has been demonstrated3 to be significant in determining the depth of crater formed by a particular discharge. The relationship demonstrated was of a qualitative character only, however, owing to the lack of quantitative knowledge concerning both transient and steady-state subsurface current distribution. This paper describes the results of an analytical study of current distribution under appropriate conditions. In this study steady-state current distribution was determined from work by others on an analogous problem in hydrodynamics.7,8 Transient current distribution was determined by a solution which is described in some detail in the Appendix."
"For many years telephone people have been intrigued with the idea of making use of the idle time during a telephone call. Time Assignment Speech Interpolation (TASI) is a high-speed transmission and switching system based on the principle of using the free channel time to interpolate additional talkers. Although TASI requires considerable terminal equipment, it can approximately double the usefulness of long expensive channels such as the deep sea submarine cable systems. The first speech interpolation system is expected to be placed in service during 1960 on the first transatlantic telephone cable system between London and New York, which was opened for service in September 1956."
"Since its introduction in 1938 the FM (frequency-modulated) carrier has found ever-increasing use in the Western Union Telegraph Company. The gradual evolution from the type-15 to the current type-40 carrier telegraph terminal has shown an increase from two telegraph channels per bay, to 10 channels in the same space. The equipment herein described mounts two 10-channel groups per bay along with associated power supplies, bias and leg controls, and metering and monitoring facilities. This design has been designated as the type-60 channel terminal."
"During the past 10 years the American Telephone and Telegraph Company has conducted tests at 4,000 mc (megacycles) over most major microwave radio relay routes prior to the initial installations. As the necessity for further expansion arises, it is planned to add 6,000-mc and, possibly, 11,000-mc circuits to the existing routes. For this reason antenna height versus path loss tests were performed over four paths with highly reflective terrain in Colorado and Wyoming. The purpose of these tests was to collect information to permit the evaluation of performance at the higher frequencies on existing paths from the results of earlier 4,000-mc tests when a common antenna is used for all frequencies. To obtain comparable results simultaneous measurements were made at 3,950 and 6,310 as well as 3,950 and 11,200 mc. The 3,950-mc measurements were used for reference purposes."
"Sampled-data feedback systems which contain a saturating element are investigated in this paper. A condition which must be satisfied if these systems are to be stable is developed; it is shown that this is a necessary condition for stability and an intuitive argument is presented to indicate that this condition is probably sufficient. Finally, a method to obtain a digital filter for compensating and/or stabilizing these systems is presented."
"There are many private telegraph networks in the United States serving industrial, commercial, financial, and transportation organizations, and used for the transmission of intracompany message traffic, data transmission, and telemetering. In size there is a wide range, from small networks with a home office and a single branch, to large and highly complex ones with tens of thousands of miles of facilities, hundreds of operating points, and weekly message files running into six figures. The majority of private networks lease both equipment and facilities. However some own their operating equipment and lease facilities, while others own both equipment and the plant that provides the facilities."
"Conventional design techniques cannot readily produce optimum solutions to present-day design problems. The ideal characteristics of a design procedure are reviewed herein and compared with the conventional techniques. The characteristics of a currently feasible procedure are noted, and a new technique for use with a digital computer is described. A sample design optimization is employed to illustrate the operation of the new technique, which closely approaches the ideal design procedure."
"The general characteristics of a new and powerful procedure for the design of optimum systems have been outlined in Part I of this paper.1 This procedure consists of a complex group of criteria specifically formulated to enable previously known gradient minimization techniques to be applied to the design problem."
"The corner-reflector antenna has been investigated by Kraus and others.1,2 The mathematical expressions for the array factor as given in this earlier work are cumbersome, making it difficult to design such an antenna accurately. It is the purpose of this paper to overcome this difficulty."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"NOT very long ago, the concept of automatic control was embodied in a simple diagram consisting of a block surrounded by a single line embellished with a summing point and direction arrows. Hundreds of papers have been written to explain the mysteries of stability and performance that pertain to this simple loop when actual physical equipment is substituted for the symbols representing it."
"This is a brief report on recent happenings which should be of interest to PGAC members. Of particular interest are the growing stature and responsibilities of the PGAC on a national and international scale."
"Special features of this issue include a discussion of the American Automatic Control Council bv its first chairman, the first section of a three-part tutorial paper, and two annotated bibliographies."
"An international meeting of automatic control was held in Heidelberg, Germany, September 25–29, 1956, under the auspices of the joint control Committee of the German electrical and mechanical engineering societies. This committee is known as the VDI/VDE — Fachgruppe Regelungstechnik. Other international meetings on automatic control had been held previously. On July 16–21, 1951, one took place in Cranfield, England. This was called the “Conference on Automatic Control.” It was followed by the “Frequency Response Symposium” in New York City, December 1–2, 1953. The Heidelberg meetings were such a success that a demand arose for an international federation which could assist the host country in the matter of publicity, securing papers, and other aspects of the organization of future international control meetings."
"Three types of compensation widely used to achieve stable operation in instrument servomechanisms are: the lead network, tachometer feedback, and the viscous-coupled-inertia damper. The paper compares these types of compensation in such matters as servo bandwidth, velocity constant, torque constant, transient response, tolerance to gear-train backlash, noise, and required amplifier gain. The purpose of this comparison is to provide a basis for selection of the most appropriate type of compensation for a particular application. The paper also serves to illustrate a method of analyzing servo performance in terms of the asymptotic gain-crossover frequency. Although this method may be theoretically trivial, it actually is a powerful tool for analyzing the performance of feedback control systems."
"The z-transform is used to solve sampled-data systems which have a periodically time-varying sampling rate, i.e., systems which have a repetitive sampling pattern in which the time duration between the individual samples is not constant. Such systems are described by linear difference equations with periodic coefficients; however, the difference equation which describes the system at sampling instants corresponding to KN, where N is the period of the coefficients of the difference equation, and K = 0, 1, 2, …, is a linear difference equation with constant coefficients. Thus by forming a series of difference equations which individually describe the system at sampling instants corresponding to KN, KN+1, KN+2, …, (K+1)N−1, the time varying features of the system are in essence removed from the analysis and the z-transform can be used to solve the resulting constant coefficient difference equations. Also, the response between the sampling instants can be found using the solutions of these difference equations. The method presented is straightforward and can be used to analyze any linear sampled-data system with a periodic sampling pattern. Such a condition could occur, for example, when a computer is time shared by more than one system or in some telemetering devices which periodically give to control systems information on quantities being monitored but in which the desired information is not available at equally spaced intervals of time. This method can also be used to obtain an approximate solution for the output of any linear system which is excited by a periodic but nonsinusoidal forcing function and, because of the flexibility of the sampling pattern, should give more accurate results than an approximation which uses equally spaced samples. In this analysis, only periodicity of the sampling pattern is assumed, and no relationship between the individual sampling intervals is required. A few examples have been introduced to illustrate the analytical procedure and the features of the response of a system to sinusoidal inputs is indicated in one of the examples."
"This is primarily a tutorial paper written to acquaint control engineers with mathematics pertaining to important subsystems in modern weapons and space control systems. It is intended to minimize basic design errors often made when attempting to visualize the processes involved, particularly those involving dynamics where time as well as three-dimensional space is involved."
"A method is presented for synthesizing a feedback system under the constraints that the open-loop transfer function must have specified Kv and contain real poles at prescribed locations. The method is based on examination of the inverse root-locus plot for the closed-loop poles and zeros. Algebraic equations are obtained for the open-loop pole and zero locations. Examples are given for systems through fourth order in which the resulting linear algebraic equations are readily solved for the required compensation poles and zeros."
"The mathematical analysis of linear dynamic systems, based on experimental test results, often requires that the frequency response of the system be fitted by an algebraic expression. The form in which this expression is usually desired is that of a ratio of two frequency-dependent polynomials. In this paper, a method of evaluation of the polynomial coefficients is presented. It is based on the minimization of the weighted sum of the squares of the errors between the absolute magnitudes of the actual function and the polynomial ratio, taken at various values of frequency (the independent variable). The problem of the evaluation of the unknown coefficients is reduced to that of the numerical solution of certain determinants. The elements of these determinants are functions of the amplitude ratio and phase shift, taken at various values of frequency. This form of solution is particularly adaptable to digital computing methods, be-because of the simplicity in the required programming. The treatment is restricted to systems which have no poles on the imaginary axis; i.e., to systems having a finite, steady-state (zero frequency) magnitude."
"The characteristics of simple pursuit and compensatory manual control systems were measured with, a family of gaussian input signals having power-density spectra that covered a range of bandwidths, center frequencies, and some variety of shapes. The experimental results, presented in the form of graphs, show the nature of the dependence of human operator characteristics upon input-signal characteristics. The superiority of pursuit systems over compensatory systems is clearly demonstrated. Simple analytic models that approximate these measured results are derived for both systems. The compensatory model is highly developed and relations among its parameters and those of the input have been obtained. The pursuit model is not so well developed and only approximate relations among its parameters and the input parameters have been found. The measured results and the analytic models together provide a description of manual control systems that should be useful in design of control systems."
"This bibliography is an attempt to survey the writings, in various fields of study, which deal with functions with retarded argument. This problem is characterized by a response to a stimulus which is identical to a normal response except that it is delayed in time. Some situations in which this transportation lag occurs include process control (distance-velocity lag), control of thermal systems (including control of nuclear reactors), rocket motor combustion (ignition and combustion lags), traveling waves, magnetic amplifiers, human link in control systems (reaction time), high-speed aerodynamic control, and economic systems (period of gestation or production lag). A bibliography is presented which lists and abstracts a number of the references dealing with this problem. Relevant references in two major categories have been omitted in this bibliography. Foreign language works and pure mathematical treatments have not been listed. A comprehensive list of these references may be found in an excellent bibliography on the subject.1 The format of the reference listings is an adaptation of standard bibliographical format convenient to the type of material presented. References are lettered according to the author's surname, rather than numbered, to facilitate future additions without breaking the continuity of the reference notation."
"Adaptive, self-adjusting, or self-optimizing servos are designed for operation in a slowly-changing environment as opposed to servos intended for a fixed environment. Optimalizer controls and similar devices which hunt for and adjust to a pre-set optimum condition are considered as adaptive servos. The references which follow are a selective sampling of the latest material on this subject taken from the open literature and technical reports. Servos which are designed to operate at some pre-set optimum based on pre-filtering of input signals evolved from Wiener's optimum filter theory, and, accordingly, references to the latter topic have also been included."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"An anniversary is a truly happy event when the promise of the future outweighs the accomplishment of the past. In this respect, AIEE is particularly fortunate."
"ON MAY 13, just 75 years ago, a group of men interested in electricity, many of whom were telegraph electricians, founded the AIEE. The objectives then were much the same as they are today — namely to hold meetings, to read and discuss professional papers, and to circulate the information by means of publication, as well as to promote “social intercourse.” Today, the organization is comprised of over 45,000 members, 10,000 students, and 56 technical committees with several hundred subcommittees in six broad technical divisions. In passing, it is interesting to note that in the Institute's first paper, “Notes on Phenomena in Incandescent Lamps” by Professor Edwin J. Huston, attention was focused on the high-vacuum phenomena observed by Mr. Edison in incandescent lamps and known as “the Edison effect,” which was a forerunner of the great electronic industry of today."
"PAUSING to look back over your shoulder at the last quarter century is an interesting experience, but it is also a little unsettling. If you start with recent copies of Electrical Engineering, for example, and gradually work your way back into the past, you find some strange sensations sifting out from between the pages of the big bound volumes. As you move back through the 40's, into the 30's, you find yourself in a world in which men are asking themselves, with some anxiety, how the Nation can best lift itself out of the Depression … where engineers are properly impressed with the complex electrical system of a twin-engined DC-3 … and where the floodlit buildings of the great World's Fairs, glowing with exotic colors, seem dedicated to a search for light-hearted amusement."
"IT GOES WITHOUT SAYING that a look back over the past 25 years will show great changes in every branch of the applied sciences and especially in electrical engineering. Generators, transformers, switchgear, and transmission lines, for example, are designed today to operate at greater capacity, with increased reliability, more automatically, and at higher voltages than did their predecessors of 1934 vintage. Such changes, broadly speaking, are in the nature of improvements and constitute the development of electrical engineering as an art progressing as it has throughout the entire 75-year history of the AIEE. With this long history, it is no wonder that future electric machinery and equipment development can be forecast with some degree of accuracy."
"TWENTY-FIVE YEARS AGO, the military application of electron-tube devices was limited mainly to radio communications. Now electronics plays a vital role in practically every offensive and defensive weapon that our armed forces use. It provides the vast and complex network of early warning, intelligence, and command communications we must have so that, if required, our powerful defensive and retaliatory forces could spring into action in minutes."
"LESS THAN A QUARTER of a century ago, there was no semblance of a rocket or guided missile industry; today, there exists a multibillion-dollar business employing a sizable fraction of the Nation's most skilled scientists, engineers, and technicians. This industry has brought into being, in the relatively short span of some dozen years or so, some of the most sophisticated and complex mechanical and electrical systems yet conceived by man. There exist today target-seeking missiles for military applications, and vehicles for exploring cislunar space, not to mention the highly automated ancillary devices and equipment required to support operations and missions which existed in the realm of fantasy only several decades ago."
"THE EXTENT to which mathematics plays a significant role in engineering is synonymous with the extent to which engineering is identifiable with applied science. Engineering is a combination of the scientific and the practical. The extent to which either of these aspects predominates over the other cannot be defined, but depends entirely upon the nature of the problem dealt with and the ever-changing pattern of prevailing circumstances. Therefore, it is quite clear that the degree to which purely mathematical disciplines are coupled with or are essential to the activities of the engineer must be recognized as markedly varying with both time and geographical location. For example, 50 years ago in this country, the practical definitely out weighted the purely scientific aspects in engineering activity; 25 years ago, we might say that the two were reaching a competitive stage; today, it is fair to say that the emphasis upon science in engin eering predominates so strikingly that a member of our profession whose background is not primarily scientific to a degree of substantial depth cannot identify himself with that segment of professional activity that dominates and, hence, characterizes its essential meaning or definition."
"A DIFFICULTY FACING all of us who summarize various portions of technological history in the past quarter century for this anniversary issue of Electrical Engineering is the utter distortion of the once comfortable relationship between time and technical progress. In a previous generation, the historian assigned himself a century or more of engineering development in order to describe an appreciable advance. Today, by contrast, a decade is likely to give him as much as he can handle. In going back as far as 25 years, he finds himself in an age which, if not actually dark, is at best only dimly lighted by present standards."
"THOSE OF US who have lived through the last quarter century have experienced never a dull moment either in the kaleidoscope of public affairs or the onrush of science. Diapason has followed crescendo, and wonder has been raised to the nth power, until now superlatives are all but exhausted. In such circumstance, it is only fitting that we pause for a moment to reflect upon some of those factors which have affected our society most profoundly, and bid fair to do so in future. Not the least of such factors has been the progress of communication at a electrical means, or if you will, telecommunication. Indeed, so interwoven have communication and social structure become that it is often hard to differentiate cause and effect. Communication begets civilization, and vice versa."
"“THERE ALWAYS is a better way,” underlies the spirit of service to the nation which has been the precept of the telephone industry from its beginning."
"THE TOPIC comes to the author by assignment. No one would volunteer a writing for which he might reasonably be expected to be pilloried in effigy in 1984 as part of AIEE's celebration of its centennial. It will be shown that any attempt to predict will prove futile before it is made."
"CENTURIES are remembered — not for the passage of time — but for the men, the events, the discoveries, and the innovations they produce."
"IN THE BRIEF SPAN of years since the closing days of World War II, we have witnessed a technological development in computers of such broad proportions that it is still impossible to appraise its far reaching effects adequately. Perhaps, the best way to express the enormous influence of this revolution is simply to point out that practically all of man's actions in producing the necessities and luxuries of life fall into two categories, namely his mental and his physical work. All of his mental work has to do with the processing of information in some form or other, and the close relationship of the computer to the human brain and its functioning needs no elaboration here. It should have been expected that nearly all of the operations of the civilized world, in which the human brain is involved to a greater or lesser extent in carrying out the task, could be aided by a technological development which performs accurately and at high speed, some of the functions of the brain. This is variously called computing, or information- or data-processing. Its field of application is as broad as human knowledge and is far beyond the comprehension of any one individual. However, large teams of scientists and engineers are currently at work in many of these compartmented fields of knowledge, learning how to adapt and develop the automatic processing methods of the computer to the needs of their particular fields."
"IN 1955, the lighting industry celebrated Light's Diamond Jubilee commemorating the invention of the incandescent filament lamp and the birth of electric utilities in the form of Edison Electric Illuminating Companies. A feature of this celebration was a 75-kw incandescent lamp constructed especially for this use, just as a 50-kw lamp had been made for exhibit at the New York World's Fair in 1939. This mammoth lamp, burned from time to time for demonstration during the celebration, should not be taken to indicate that advance in lighting has been solely in the size of the source."
"TWENTY-FIVE years of aviation history accounts for approximately half the time since the Wright Brothers made their famous flight at Kitty Hawk. In the time period since the Golden Anniversary of the AIEE, 1934, great advancements and major breakthroughs have been made in the field of aviation."
"A SUPERFICIAL SURVEY of electrical engineering accomplishments in the field of land transportation during the past 25 years would seem to indicate that they have not kept pace with the progress made in the power generation, transmission, illumination, communications, and other fields of application of electrical engineering. In all of these other fields of endeavor, the contributions of electrical engineering toward progress have been noteworthy and visible. During the past two decades, however, the achievements of the many noted electrical engineers who were identified with the field of electrical engineering and transportation during the years 1910 to 1935, seem to have been discarded and forgotten with the advent of the diesel-electric locomotive and the gasoline engine."
"THE TREMENDOUS DEVELOPMENT of shipboard electrical applications in the 25 years from 1934 to 1959 can best be shown by a brief review of that state of the art in 1934, contrasted with present-day installations."
"THE HISTORY of the electric utility industry in the United States in the 25 years since AIEE celebrated its Golden Anniversary in 1934 has been that of remarkable physical growth. The technical achievements of the industry during this period helped to foster this growth and were, in turn, stimulated and made possible by it. During this 25-year period, electric utility generation expanded by well over 700%, or at a rate almost 2&1/2; times as fast as the increase in the real gross national product (GNP) after eliminating changes in the price level. The expanding use of electric energy in every aspect of American life has contributed to and, in turn, has been made possible by the rising standards of living and the increased productivity this country has enjoyed in this period."
"A RELATIVELY SMALL NUMBER of discoveries and inventions of tremendous consequence have shaped greatly the course of human history. In this number we would include fire, farming and herding, the wheel, the lever, the clock, the alphabet, and the zero in mathematics."
"IN ANY DISCUSSION of the progress in power apparatus, an impressive fact emerges: an increasing number of challenges is being presented to the industry to conceive systems and provide apparatus that will continue to give more power to the American worker, at lower and lower cost. This is the strength of American industry and the free enterprise system, to which the electrical industry has made a major contribution. The fact that the American worker now has more power available to him to do the dull or routine tasks is building his stature with respect to workers in similar jobs in other countries. The electrical industry has done much to provide this high standard of living."
"THE 75TH ANNIVERSARY of the AIEE is a particularly appropriate occasion to review and take stock of the developments in power transmission. A corresponding review by Prof. H. J. Ryan just 25 years ago traced the development of power transmission from its early beginnings and discussed how, among other things, the number of phases and the system frequency were chosen. At that time, the 800-mile 287.5-kv line from Hoover Dam to Los Angeles, Calif., was just being erected. The newly solved problem of lightning, system stability, and symmetrical components were still being digested and assimilated. The a-c calculating board had just been adopted and accepted as a tool for the solution of regulation, load, and reactive power flow and stability problems. The closely allied problem of synchronous machine transient analysis had also just completed its first great bound in understanding."
"NUMEROUS TECHNIQUES for use in acceptance testing of apparatus have been developed over the past 25 years. It is not possible to cover, because of lack of space, the various devices that may be used in high-voltage laboratories for development work, except in a very general way. At the end of this article, a list of papers most easily accessible to American readers is included. In addition, rather comprehensive bibliographies are available.1–3 There have been many investigators who have made important contributions but are not mentioned because of the necessity for keeping references to a reasonable length."
"ALTHOUGH the distribution field may not seem as spectacular as others, it represents approximately half the total power system investment. It is in this area that the ultimate quality of service is determined. Future opportunities for improving the quality and minimizing the cost of electrical service are believed to be greatest in the distribution field."
"IN THE PAST 25 YEARS many diverse and exciting developments have appeared in insulated electric power cables of all voltages and in all matters relating to them. The importance of the entire field has greatly expanded mainly as a result of (1) the rapid growth in the use of electric power, (2) the increasing use of underground instead of overhead lines, and (3) the sharp rise in costs of cable installations."
"THE AIEE Middle Eastern District Meeting to be held at the Lord Baltimore Hotel, Baltimore, Md., May 19–21, 1959, will feature 135 technical papers presented by outstanding speakers from many parts of America as well as Europe. Interesting inspection trips, closely allied with the technical sessions, will be plentiful because of the prominence of Baltimore as a nucleus for many leading industries. Scenic tours, including a trip to historic Annapolis, have been arranged specifically to appeal to the ladies and the program of social affairs will be educational and entertaining for all."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE AIEE Summer and Pacific General Meeting will be held June 21–26, 1959, in Seattle, Wash. Headquarters will be the Olympic Hotel where all technical sessions, as well as most of the social events will be held. This annual meeting commemorates a milestone in the history of the Institute since it celebrates the 75th year of its founding. The opening session will be addressed by Mayor Gordon Clinton of the City of Seattle."
"A limited number of hardbound, silver-cloth copies of the May 1959 issue of Electrical Engineering commemorating the 75th Anniversary of the Institute are available at $2.50 per copy. Those interested in obtaining a copy are asked to fill in and return the coupon below before July 1, 1959. Please enclose remittance."
"WE ARE IN THE MIDST of the campaign for funds for the construction of the new Engineering Center — the headquarters of 10 Societies. If the Societies are to meet their obligations of today and the challenges of tomorrow, the new Center must be provided."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Modern medicine could not exist without electronics! From common office instruments to highly complex apparatus used in heart and brain surgery, the advances of electrical engineering are utilized daily in medical practice and research."
"FROM 1945 TO 1958, the noncoincident peak load in the United States increased from 40- to 118-million kw, tripling in 13 years. Future load growth at anywhere near this rate will require higher voltage transmission. Difficulty of obtaining right-of-way for additional and higher voltage overhead lines will increase demand for extra-high-voltage (EHV) insulated cable; capable of transmitting 500 mva and over at 230 kv and higher."
"THE DEMAND for better control in modern complex electric power systems calls for better load- and frequency-control equipment. One such supplementary device is the Woodward rapid load control auxiliary, as used on hydraulic turbine governors."
"A COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM has been designed to meet the special requirements of modern toll road operations simply, and within reasonable costs. It was installed for the Massachusetts Turnpike Authority and provides communications between turnpike buildings and vehicles operating anywhere along the toll road right-of-way. By using microwave to link each of the seven vhf base stations with maintenance centers, police barracks and administration headquarters, the desired flexibility has been achieved. Fig. 1 is a map of the toll road showing the location of microwave stations and their interconnections."
"A discussion of the role of Technical Committee no. 22 (TC-22) of the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) in evolving international standards for static power converting equipment."
"FEEDBACK CONTROL SYSTEM DESIGN is most effective when both steady-state and transient performance specifications can be realized. One approach, synthesis, proceeds from a set of closed-loop specifications to an appropriate open-loop system which, upon closure of the feedback path, satisfies the specifications. Almost without exception, a compensation network must be used in conjunction with the fixed portion of the system G2 (s). In many cases it is desirable that the compensation network consist of resistance and capacitance elements. To be R-C realizable, the poles of the transfer function describing the compensation network must be simple on the negative real axis, the origin and infinity excluded, i.e., its pole-zero excess must be equal to or greater than zero."
"THERMOSIPHON COOLING of oil-immersed transformers has been in use for many years, and cooling tubes and radiators in standard configuration may be applied to transformers with confidence. In the development of new cooling equipment, however, the performance and efficiency of new shapes and arrangements are determined empirically. The theoretical analysis of thermosiphon flow is quite complicated. Actually, although it may be used qualitatively in many cases, the theoretical approach is directly applicable only to idealized circuits, and the basic assumptions concerning modes of flow, for example, must be checked experimentally."
"An investigation has been conducted on cables with elastically deforming sheaths, which have been designed to dispense with the conventional bulky and expensive external means of maintaining pressure in high-pressure cables. Results have shown that satisfactory performance may be expected from these elastic sheath cables."
"Because of the normal pauses between sentences, words, and even syllables, a talker actually uses a telephone circuit only about 35% of the time. TASI takes advantage of this fact by interpolating additional channels into existing groups of channels, thus greatly increasing the usefulness of transatlantic and other expensive cable systems."
"NUMEROUS APPLICATIONS require random numbers. For example, some applications are the selection of signals or input information for psychophysical experiments, simulation and testing of complex physical systems, setting of safe combinations, performance of Monte Carlo experiments, and applications where random samples are needed."
"THE USEFULNESS of the method of symmetrical components in analyzing the case of an induction motor operating with an unbalanced rotor circuit has been limited by a lack of conclusive evidence as to what assumptions can be made in applying this method. The nature of assumptions useful to this analysis has been established through comparison of numerous experimental and calculated speed-torque curves. An accounting for the variation of both rotor and stator winding resistances with frequency has been found necessary for accurate prediction of these characteristics. It has been found that a linear approximation of the resistance-frequency variation in these windings is sufficiently accurate for calculations on small wound-rotor induction motors. Blocked rotor tests over a range of frequencies have shown the resistance-frequency variation to be essentially linear for this type of motor. It is to be expected that certain cases involving a configuration of conductors in the motor windings such as deep bars or untransposed parallel windings may involve a departure from the linear resistance-frequency variation. In these cases either tests or design calculations can be used to establish a more suitable approximation."
"This two-part article discusses the various problems encountered in the detection and measurement of refrigerator noise, and describes the equipment, instrumentation, and techniques involved in its evaluation."
"AIRCRAFT electric system generators have been changing from the wide-speed-range, d-c machines of 15 years ago to the constant-frequency, 400-cps a-c systems widely used today. These constant-frequency generators require a fixed-speed shaft. This is sometimes provided by supplying engine shaft power through variable gear ratio devices. In other cases, generators are driven by fixed air turbines operating on air bled from the engine compressors. Design problems in these systems center on the reduction of weight and compatibility with the environmental conditions presented by high performance aircraft. It was in an effort to meet these problems that the Turbonator, an integrated turbine-generator package, was conceived and developed."
"THE EQUATIONS available for determining the developed torque and power of induction motors deserve critical review. Accurate and convenient equations are necessary to encourage designers to avoid approximate short-cut calculations. However, an even more important result of having improved equations available is that this can provide a first step toward the development of synthesis procedures1 which would establish motor dimensions by direct calculation from specifications."
"The difference between stable and unstable systems is demonstrated logically from the standpoint of the frequency-response diagram, often called a Bode diagram. In addition to providing a means of understanding fundamentals of regulating systems, the Bode diagram is a useful design tool."
"The basic approach is developed that switching surges, in combination with 60-cycle operating voltage, are primary factors determining electrical clearance requirements at the higher voltages. Clearances presented are discussed and compared with reference to current design values and practices."
"This is the second and concluding article of a series on the main research aspects of two important transmission projects. The comprehensive investigations on these projects may have far-reaching results in the electrical and mechanical engineering fields because of the variety and general interest of studies undertaken."
"The first of three informative articles in which President Hickernell describes our present organization, internal activities, and intersociety relations. Woven throughout are historical highlights of our first 75 years."
"TO DATE little attention has been focused on the resulting over-all system performance caused by the effect of driving source impedance on servomotor characteristics. The torque speed characteristics of a motor, as furnished by the manufacturer, may be correctly used for calculating the motor transfer function only when the identical test conditions relating to the driving source impedance to both phases are satisfied."
"THE AIEE combined Summer and Pacific General Meeting will be held in the Olympic Hotel in the heart of downtown Seattle, Wash., June 21–26, 1959. The Air Transportation Conference with the theme, “Electricity in Space,” will be an integral part of the meeting."
"ATLANTA, GA., was host to the AIEE Joint District Meeting of the South East District No. 4 and South Central District No. 13, April 8–10, 1959, held at the Dinkier Plaza Hotel. Attendance exceeded 550 members, wives, and guests. There were approximately 66 papers read at 17 technical lessons. Students were liberally represented."
"THE VERY STRONG world-wide position of United States computer technology has been confirmed in the final program plans for the forthcoming global computer conference sponsored by an organization of the United Nations in Paris, France, June 13–23, 1959. The formal technical program alone will feature 23 of 55 papers from United States computer experts."
"If you are changing your address be sure to advise AIEE as soon as possible by using this convenient form."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"CINCINNATI has been declared the first community in the Nation in which all Founder Society Sections, through concerted action, have surpassed their quotas in full support of the United Engineering Center fund campaign. The total pledged by Cincinnatians now stands at $45,120."
"THE NATION'S most comprehensive series of meetings devoted to peacetime uses of the atom — the 1959 Nuclear Congress — was held in Cleveland, Ohio, April 5–10. More than 3,000 engineers, scientists, and industrial executives with an interest in nonmilitary applications of nuclear energy and radioactive materials were in attendance. The Congress, which included the 5th Nuclear Engineering & Science Conference, the 7th Hot Laboratories & Equipment Conference, the 7th Atomic Energy in Industry Conference, and the Atomfair, was sponsored by 30 engineering, scientific, and industrial organizations, and was co-ordinated by the Engineers Joint Council."
"For the first time since it was established in 1928, the AIEE Lamme Medal has been awarded jointly to two engineers, P. L. Alger (F '30) and Sterling Beckwith (F '49). The medal will be presented during the Institute's Summer and Pacific General Meeting, with the citation, “In recognition of their contribution to the art and science of design and application of rotating electric machines.”"
"The winners of the AIEE District Prize Papers Competition have been announced. First prize for any Transactions paper prepared by a resident of the District consists of a certificate and $75; second prize consists of a certificate and $50."
"Engineers Joint Council (EJC) has now become the sponsor for the United States Committee of the International Association for the Exchange of Students for Technical Experience (IAESTE), and its secretariat is now located in EJC's headquarters at 29 W. 39th St., New York 18, N. Y. The announcement of the change was made recently by E. R. Needles, president of EJC and by U. S. Committee for IAESTE."
"D. E. Argo (AM '47), Western regional manager, A. B. Chance Company, has been promoted to regional vice-president. In his new position, Mr. Argo will be in charge of all company operations in eight western states including the A. B. Chance Company's manufacturing plant and sales ServiCenter in San Francisco, Calif."
"SPARROW III, the U.S. Navy's air-to-air missile, is now operational with the Seventh Fleet in the western Pacific. Capability against aerial attack is enhanced by squadrons armed with missile on the USS Midway and Bon Homme Richard."
"YOU ARE WRONG; the typographer did not make a mistake in setting the headline. This strange sentence is written in the language of the APT System, a new method for operating machine tools."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE FIRST successful attempt to establish radar contact with the planet Venus was reported recently by a research team led by Dr. Robert Price and Dr. P. E. Green, Jr., from Lincoln Laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). This experiment with radar astronomy achieved a one-hundredfold increase in the longest range ever attained with radar and is the first instance of a direct two-way contact with any celestial body at a distance that is far beyond the moon."
"A gadget that turns the energy of splitting atoms directly into electricity inside an atomic pile was tested successfully recently at the secret atomic-bomb laboratory at Los Alamos, N. M."
"ALUMINUM DOME, 87 feet high, houses largest entirely industry-owned research reactor. Constructed by 10 companies in noncompeting fields to conduct basic research, the Plainsboro, N. J., installation is called Industrial Reactor Laboratories, Inc., and is jointly owned."
"An aerial Hash unit, whose peak light output is so intense that only three would be needed to light up Yankee Stadium, has been developed by a scientific instrument firm. The light source of the unit, developed for night aerial photography, is a xenon-charged flash tube 3.5 cm high (about 1 &1/3; inches) and the diameter of a pencil. The flash tube is made of high-purity quartz and is shaped like the looped end of a safety pin."
"A radically different type of aircraft altimeter — said to cut reading time in half and virtually to eliminate reading error — was demonstrated recently by the Bulova Watch Company, Inc."
"A major developmental advance in semiconductor solid circuitry was announced recently by Texas Instruments Incorporated (TI)."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may he of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The Navy has long been proud of its close association with the American engineering community, a fruitful alliance which has resulted in a sustained record of outstanding achievements."
"In this second of three articles, President Hickernell groups all the internal affairs of the Institute into 10 general categories, and briefly describes each one."
"DISCONTINUOUS NONLINEARITIES such as static friction, hysteresis, and saturation exist in most physical systems. Extensive theories have been developed for the analysis of this type of nonlinearity. The most common of these theories are those of the phase plane and the describing function. Unfortunately, these theories do not contribute substantially to the synthesis of physical systems of any complexity."
"DURING THE EARLY 1940's copper was in short supply in many countries, with the result that aluminum came into use in power transformer windings as a means of conserving copper. Since that time, there has been a continued interest in aluminum for transformer use. Considerable literature has been published on the use of aluminum in reactors, dry-type transformers, and distribution transformers. Less data has been available on the use of aluminum in power transformers above 10,000 kva. It is these larger sizes that are now under study."
"The Government laboratory is one of the most important assets of national science. Within the framework of the need for an enlarged national scientific effort, it plays a unique role. It is vital that its work be strengthened and its responsibilities appreciated."
"By means of Telex, an automatic dial teleprinter exchange service, New York City subscribers may now obtain direct teleprinter connections to more than 1,200 subscribers in Canada. The subscriber set, the Canadian network, means of connection, charges, and operation of the exchanges are described."
"A description of a switch that extends the range of usefulness of the cathode ray oscillograph (CRO) in viewing transient phenomena in electrical circuits by means of a repetitive trace on the CRO."
"DURING RECENT YEARS a choice more and more frequently considered is the use of electric energy rather than oil or gas for heating in a new home. About two years ago two houses, one with a modern-type central furnace using oil, the other with a coal furnace converted to use gas, were each equipped with sufficient unit electric heaters to provide the necessary heat. Tests on each of these two houses, both located in the State of Washington were started in January 1956 and run alternately one day on oil, or gas, and the next on electric heat, and careful measurements were made on all fuel used, with weather temperature records obtained from the local weather bureau. Unfortunate circumstances caused tests on the Seattle house with the gas furnace, termed House 2, to be discontinued after a month's run. The tests on the Yakima house with the oil furnace, termed House 1, were continued the next autumn for three months and all through the following winter, but running one week before changing type of fuel."
"In the second part of a two-part article, the emphasis is on noise testing, first of the compressor and then of the refrigerator as a whole. Avenues of approach in designing for noise reduction are also described."
"THE INCREASING SIZE of turbine-generators on large power supply systems means that a sudden loss of a unit tends to endanger the continuity of power supply over large areas. Because of this, some operating companies prefer to sound an alarm upon the detection of generator ground faults which in themselves do not cause immediate disability of the generator. The unit is then taken out of service at the first opportunity."
"THE MEETING of the AIEE Empire District at the Hotel Syracuse, April 29-May 1, in Syracuse, N.Y., had as its theme, “New Horizons in Power and Industry.” Approximately 440 members and guests who attended the meeting were unanimous in their praise for the technical and social programs."
"SOME 500 representatives of industry, colleges, engineering societies, and the press in the New York City area gathered at a luncheon on May 13 in the Hotel Astor to hear W. P. Marshall, president of Western Union, describe some of the new electrical wonders that are now being developed and to salute the AIEE. The occassion was the commemoration of the Institute's founding meeting which took place 75 years ago, on May 13, 1884. The luncheon was one of many such affairs which will be held throughout the country by the Institute's 112 Sections to mark the Diamond Jubilee Year."
"OVER 550 AIEE members and guests were present at the East Central District Meeting, held in conjunction with the Rubber and Plastics Conference at the Sheraton Hotel, Akron. Ohio, April 22–24, 1959. The general theme of the meeting was “Electricity-Major Tool of Industry.”"
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"LEGENDARY Atomic City — Oak Ridge, Term. — opened its security gates on March 19, 1949, to give the general public its first opportunity to view the place where so much of the development work in releasing the tremendous force of the atom for mankind's use had been carried out in the utmost secrecy."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Anniversaries are times for looking forward as well as for pointing with pardonable pride to past achievements. In this spirit, I salute the electrical engineers of America upon the occasion of the 75th birthday of their professional society — the American Institute of Electrical Engineers."
"Scientific knowledge is a crucial factor in our struggle for survival and world peace but without the discoveries of basic research our technology cannot continue to advance. The chief of Naval Research discusses the ingredients of a basic research program that can assure our scientific supremacy."
"MOUNTING REQUIREMENTS for capital investment and dependability per circuit-mile of transmission construction have given imminent importance to the elimination of incipient fatigue failures of overhead conductors and associated hardware. The increasing attention devoted to these fatigue problems in recent years has been manifested by the expansion of both laboratory and field activity in cable vibration research and in the development of improved test methods and equipment for obtaining pertinent data. However, relatively few field investigations to date have utilized the modern instrumentation techniques common to the laboratory, and those studies have been confined to nonenergized test spans since the transducers employed in modern instrumentation require electric connections to grounded recording equipment. The mechanical instruments used in energized line studies have been entirely inadequate for accurately measuring the many pertinent variables involved. Consequently, there are insufficient field data to establish quantitative relationships or to permit realistic correlation with laboratory results."
"The scientific structure of any country is influenced by many factors, including geography, population density, and resources, as well as political and social conditions. The organization of scientific research which has evolved in Canada and England is discussed."
"THE EXTENSIVE USE of 400-cps power systems in manned military aircraft and the consequent availability of standard 400-cps generation, conversion, and utilization components has caused this frequency to be used in most U. S. guided missiles. However, as higher missile flight speeds, longer ranges, and greater accelerations are needed to achieve successful guided-missile missions, the adoption of all measures that reduce the weight and volume of the electric power system without impairing reliability and logistics must be considered. Use of a power frequency higher than 400 cps would permit substantial reductions in the weight and volume of most missile electromagnetic components and of the prime energy source. However, the determination of an optimum missile power frequency must include a coordinated study of the generation, conversion, transmission, and utilization of electric power in missiles. This study shows that higher power frequencies are compatible with missile utilization components and that the weight of signal transformers and magnetic amplifiers may be decreased substantially."
"In his AIEE Founders' Day address, President Hickernell describes how the Institute came into existence 75 years ago. It is of great interest to note the now-historic names among the AlEE's first officers."
"A review of electrical progress during the past 75 years. The rapid integration of electrical intelligence and power, which now has the resources of the atom at its disposal, can open up an era of peace and material satisfactions as the engineer's contribution to mankind's welfare."
"MAGNIFICATION of transient voltages in one part of an electric power system may occur in another part of that system, possibly at a different voltage level. Experiences such as these have resulted in system flashovers or equipment damage. The degree of voltage magnification does not necessarily involve circuit-breaker restriking or prestriking, although these factors may increase the severity of the disturbance."
"With increasing use of transistorized equipment, it has become necessary to re-evaluate the approach to protection against foreign potentials and currents. In some cases, additional protective measures have been developed which are capable of limiting potentials to only a few volts."
"COMBINING the output of a watershed for the generation of electricity with the supply of water for domestic consumption produces interesting problems, which the Western Massachusetts Electric Company (WMEC) and the City of Springfield, Mass., have successfully solved in the unique arrangement which integrates the two water uses. The electric utility company and the municipality embarked upon this joint venture with the signing of an agreement on June 21, 1928. Runoff from a 45.8-square-mile drainage area is impounded in the Cobble Mountain Reservoir system where an aggregate of 3,000 million cubic feet can be stored. Water for both power and domestic use is drawn from this reservoir via a tunnel to the powerhouse. Here the energy in the water is transformed to electric energy during the peak hours of the day. Upon completion of its work at the power station, the water is retained in the intake reservoir which forms the tailrace for the power plant. From this intake reservoir, the water is drawn off to the sedimentation and filtering works, hence through the distribution system to its final use as domestic supply for Springfield and its neighbors."
"THE LAMME MEDAL, which is to be awarded to two outstanding members of the AIEE today was established by Benjamin Garver Lamme in his will. The purpose of the award is to give deserved recognition to Institute members who have shown “meritorious achievement in the development of electrical apparatus or machinery.” In considering candidates for the award, the members of the Lamme Medal Committee have exercised the greatest care to insure compliance with the founder's intent in establishing it."
"ONE OF THE TWO distinguished Institute Members being honored here today is my esteemed friend and associate Dr. Sterling Beckwith. It was my good fortune to have worked with him in the design of rotating a-c machinery at the Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Company for nearly 20 years. It is indeed a privilege to review his career for you, and to explain the significance of some of his more important contributions to the art of electrical machine design."
"IT IS INDEED A PRIVILEGE to be honored by the Lamme Medal Award and to share it with my very worthy friend, Philip Alger."
"ONE OF THE CHOICEST of pleasures is to document the achievements of someone whom we all have long admired. Today's occasion is an especially pleasant one for we are privileged to describe the brilliant careers of two such men. My acquaintance with Philip Alger began at the very start of my own engineering experience, and it has been my good fortune that the chain of events since then has kept me within the sphere of his activities."
"IZAAK WALTON'S whimsical book, “The Compleat Angler,” opens with a debate between a hunter, a falconer, and an angler on the merits of their favorite recreations; and it goes on to describe in loving detail the arts of luring the wily trout with worm, or fly, or frog. The reader is beguiled along the way by many curious tales of nature's ways, as the description of a salmon leap:"
"THE BASIC INNOVATION which has allowed the continuing challenge to design steam turbine-generators of greater output to be met is the application of conductor cooling to large generators."
"An evaluation and progress report of a gas-insulated transformer recently put into operation at the Pennsylvania Power and Light Co. This type of transformer offers definite advantages to the utility industry which must participate in its development to realize its full potential."
"AHIGH VOLTAGE Schering bridge with broadband differential amplifier and cathode-ray oscillograph were used to check the onset and offset of ionization as well as the change in conduction caused by surface effects within the void."
"In this third and concluding article in a series written to acquaint the membership at large with Institute functions, President Hickernell describes our relations with other societies, and AlEE's position with regard to the increasing demands for unity of the engineering profession."
"ELECTRIC MOTORS that drive oil well pumping units are subjected to a continuously varying load characterized by high peaks and wide and rapid load variation. The exact load-vs-time relationship is influenced by many factors and is different for each installation. Load peaks may occur from 8 to 60 times per minute. Valleys between peaks are frequently negative where the motor momentarily acts as an induction generator and transfers energy from the pumping system to the electric power system. Ratio of peak load to average load ranges from 1.8 to 4.0."
"Description of a drive that uses saturable reactors and a wound rotor motor to provide adjustable constant speed performance comparable to d-c variable voltage drives. A line contactor is used to connect the system to the power line. All regulating components are static. Motor currents are controlled in all three phases for motor heating."
"The Soviet Union invests 27% of its gross national product in new plants each year compared with our 19%. To maintain this higher rate of expansion, heavy emphasis is placed on automation. Observations of a delegation of automation specialists to the Soviet Union indicate this economic challenge must be taken seriously."
"THE AIEE Middle Eastern District Meeting, held May 19–21, 1959, in the Lord Baltimore Hotel, Baltimore, Md., was attended by 636 members and guests."
"A limited number of hardbound, silver-cloth copies of the May 1959 issue of Electrical Engineering commemorating the 75th Anniversary of the Institute are available at $2.50 per copy. Those interested in obtaining a copy are asked to fill in and return the coupon below. Please enclose remittance."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE 2nd Annual Joint conference on automatic techniques, sponsored jointly by AIEE, American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), and Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE), was held at the Hotel Pick-Congress in Chicago, Ill., May 11–13, 1959. The second of a series to be held annually, the Conference was devoted to a discussion of fools and methods available for introducing automatic techniques in manufacturing industries, process industries; in sorting and handling; and in the processing of business data."
"THREE MEETINGS of the AIEE Board of Directors were held in Buffalo, N. Y.; Sacramento, Calif.; and in New York, N. Y. The Executive Committee met four times: twice in New York, N. Y.; once in Akron, Ohio; and once through a telephone conference during which the cancellation of the Fall General Meeting in Pittsburgh, Pa., was discussed. Information regarding the more important decisions of the Board were reported in various issues of Electrical Engineering."
"American Institute of Electrical Engineers: We have examined the balance sheet of American Institute of Electrical Engineers as of April 30, 1959 and the related statements of income and operating fund reserve and of restricted fund reserves for the year then ended. Our examination was made in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, and accordingly included such tests of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances."
"May 3, 4, and 5 are the dates established for the 1960 Western Joint Computer Conference to be held in San Francisco, Calif., next year. The Conference sponsors are the AIEE, Institute of Radio Engineers, and the Association for Computing Machinery."
"A HUGE three-legged “self-elevating portable island” recently began drilling an offshore oil well 1 1/4 miles off the coast of Gela, Sicily, after making a rough 7,000-mile tow-voyage from the United States to the Mediterranean Sea. Part of the voyage was through 75-foot seas, according to the captain of the ocean tug Zeeland which handled the crossing. At one point, the 1,000-ton platform is reported to have ripped loose from the tug, but because of the platform's stability while afloat, it arrived without damage."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Congratulations to the American Institute of Electrical Engineers upon its 75th Anniversary. During the last 75 years, the electrical engineers have accomplished more in the field of electronics than in the 75 million or billion years our planet Earth has been in orbit."
"In the annual President's Address, various highlights of the Institute's activities during the past year are discussed."
"FOR MANY YEARS it has been common practice to include a Δ-connected stabilizing winding in Y-Y-connected transformers and Y-connected autotrans-formers. This applies to 3-phase units of all types of core construction as well as 3-phase banks of single-phase units. The practice has been followed so closely for such a long time that it is generally taken for granted that the stabilizing winding is a necessary part of all Y-connected transformers. In many cases it is; but it is not necessary or even desirable to include a stabilizing winding in all cases regardless of type of core construction and system characteristics."
"A CIRCUIT which consists of a capacitance in series with an iron-core reactor, with or without other circuit elements, may be a ferroresonant circuit."
"In this era of shrinking distances, it may be hard to realize that slightly more than a century ago it took weeks to communicate between the European and American continents. In one giant leap, electrical technology all but annihilated time and distance, bringing both continents within a few seconds' reach of each other. This is the story of that epoch-making achievement. It introduces the contributions of some of the giants of 19th Century electrical science — Lord Kelvin, Morse, Faraday, and others. It is told in three installments."
"Chemical and electrical degradation occurs in electronic equipment under nuclear radiation. Problems and suggested solutions associated with the design and development of radiation-tolerant equipment are discussed."
"A single all-embracing unit forms the new research laboratories of the Pirelli Cable Division at Bicocca, Milan. A series of analysis and inspection instruments, including an electron accelerator, are used in the manufacture of every new product."
"DURING the past several years, saturable reactors and self-saturating magnetic amplifiers have found increasing application for the control of reversing induction motor drives for intermittent slow-speed duty. The restriction to intermittent duty is imposed by the low motor efficiency at slow speed. With speed feedback, which is usually included, the reactor-controlled induction motor possesses adjustable speed characteristics and speed-torque curves similar to those of a d-c adjustable voltage drive. The minimum no-load speed is about 1 per cent, and the speed drop between no load and full load is in the order of 5 to 10 per cent of synchronous speed."
"Recent developments in the field of fuel cells are described in this article. These devices are capable of converting the chemical energy of fuels directly into electric energy. It is predicted that fuel cells for central station power may become a reality in the future."
"THE ELECTRICAL characteristics of an arc drawn upon separating the contacts of a circuit interrupter can be classified as the static, or steady-state, and the dynamic characteristic. Both are involved in the circuit interrupting process, but of the two the dynamic characteristic is generally most important. The latter is essentially involved in the transition of the arc from a conductor to an insulator which must precede the recovery of high dielectric strength between the switch contacts. This transition, which depends on changes in energy content associated with the arc conductance, can most conveniently be described and analyzed in terms of differential equations which serve as approximate mathematical “models” of the arc. By means of such models, the arc can be treated as an element in the connected circuit. Usefully simple mathematical models have been devised by several authors by this method, all of which include a characteristic “time constant” which will be designated as θ. This quantity is a measure of the time required for the arc conductance to reach a new steady state when its original state is disturbed."
"A number of digital computer programs have recently come into use for solving problems concerned with load flow, short circuit, and transient stability studies. The tremendous power of large-scale digital computers should soon make possible the solution of very difficult utility problems which cannot be solved on analog-type computers."
"MAJOR PROBLEMS in devising reversible polarity direct current magnetic amplifiers are poor efficiency and large voltage regulation. Conventional reversible polarity circuits have a maximum theoretical efficiency of 50 per cent as compared to 100 per cent for the circuit under consideration. The increase in efficiency is accomplished by using switched transistors in conjunction with magnetic amplifiers. Previous applications of switched transistors have had magnetic amplifier gate windings in series with the transistors. Such circuits have the disadvantage of requiring the use of power magnetic amplifiers."
"Because failure of a transformer in electronic equipment generally results in complete failure of its circuit, reliability of this important component is essential. A program for achieving reliability of electronic transformers throughout every step of their design and production is proposed."
"STEADILY DECREASING peak-load power factor has amplified the problem of providing a supply for the ever-increasing reactive load on the Baltimore Gas and Electric Company system. The location of new generation in more remote areas has increased the attractiveness of static capacitors located near the load for reactive supply. However, in order to avoid excessive voltage and generator instability at light loads, suitable switching provisions for these capacitors must be available. Capacitors located on substation busses, so as to facilitate this switching, are a step in the right direction, but do not provide relief to the most costly element of the system — the distribution facilities. Pole-mounted line capacitors provide maximum feasible system relief, but the switching must be accomplished by automatic means. Time clocks, voltage, current, temperature, and other types of control are available for this function, and each type has its place. However, the extensive use of these controls presents a substantial co-ordination problem if excessive voltage changes are to be avoided. Considerable maintenance can be expected, and lack of operation supervision would indicate that some routine inspection may be deemed essential."
"Very little has been published on the resistance, capacitance, and inductance of storage batteries. A study made to obtain actual measured values of these important parameters is described."
"A review of some aspects of global public telephone service in the light of the important developments that have taken place within the period of 1954 through the Fall of 1958 — notably the growing number of underseas telephone cable circuits, and the trend toward the use of radio for domestic networks and for relatively short links to nearby islands."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Responsibility for applying discoveries of science to mankind's needs resides with the engineer. The field of electricity in the 19th Century and its 20th Century electronics offspring have presented to engineers one of history's greatest challenges and opportunities for service to mankind."
"The future of computer control for the process industries looks bright, but its full potential will not be realized until the process itself is susceptible to such control. Computer control, it is stressed, is not a substitute for present conventional control but a refinement."
"This article seeks to acquaint the reader with the elementary problems of thermoelectric generation and some of the solutions that have been devised. Consideration is also given to advantages and disadvantages of thermoelectric generation for uses which may appear desirable at the present state of the art."
"This article seeks to acquaint the reader with the elementary problems of thermoelectric generation and some of the solutions that have been devised. Consideration is also given to advantages and disadvantages of thermoelectric generation for uses which may appear desirable at the present state of the art."
"DEVELOPMENT of large modern turbogenerators has resulted in reduction of clearances between stationary and moving turbine parts to a bare minimum in order to achieve better turbine efficiency. Because the thrust bearing must be relied upon to maintain these clearances by absorbing any unbalance of thrust in a horizontal direction parallel to the turbine shaft, the importance of its performance has been enhanced greatly. With the older 50-mw class (and lower) units, thrust-bearing failure did not affect the turbine adversely, provided the steam valves were closed immediately after the bearing was wiped. However, with the large, modern, multistage 3,600-rpm units, failure of the thrust bearing usually results in damage to the turbine seals, even if catastrophic damage is prevented by an alert operator."
"SINCE 1956, an IBM 704 electronic data-processing machine has been used by the authors' company in the design of large steam turbine-generators. The computer has been an effective aid in both advance engineering and design engineering work for these machines."
"SINCE 1956, an IBM 704 electronic data-processing machine has been used by the authors' company in the design of large steam turbine-generators. The computer has been an effective aid in both advance engineering and design engineering work for these machines."
"RECENT IMPROVEMENTS in arrester impulse protective levels have permitted the application of power apparatus having insulation reduced two voltage classes on well-grounded systems where 75% or 80% arresters can be applied. Although the insulation of such apparatus can be adequately protected against impulse voltages, the adequacy of lightning arresters to protect the reduced insulation against switching surges is not so well established. Some of the areas receiving increased attention by the electrical industry are: 1. Determination of magnitude, wave shape, and duration of switching surge voltages. 2. Establishment of the insulation strength of apparatus subject to switching surge voltages. 3. Determination of the duty that arresters will be subjected to in providing protection for apparatus when exposed to excessive switching surge voltages."
"TWO 325,000-KW turbine-generator units operating at supercritical steam pressures are being installed in the new Eddystone Station of the Philadelphia Electric Company. The station is located southwest of the center of Philadelphia, near the city of Chester, Pa. The higher steam pressures involve greater auxiliary power requirements than usual, but the use of steam turbine driven high-pressure boiler feed pumps reduces the portion carried electrically to about the normal percentage. To achieve adequate reliability in the auxiliary power system and, at the same time, to provide an economical design has been a primary objective. Simplicity of layout with a minimum number of cross ties and the absence of complicated automatic throwover schemes contribute to this result. Furthermore, the electric system has been co-ordinated with the mechanical requirements to obtain a balanced design."
"Second installment of a three-part series on the historic enterprise that forged one of the North Atlantic community's most potent links."
"WHEN a guided missile is launched from Cape Canaveral, Fla., it is first tracked and controlled by the radar and radio equipment at Cape Canaveral. As the missile progresses down range, the tracking and control is transferred from station to station as the missile passes out of the range of one station's radar and radio equipment into the range of the next station's radar and radio equipment. Likewise, the reception of telemetering data from the missile is transferred from station to station as the missile progresses down range."
"To provide shielding for crews of manned space vehicles utilizing nuclear sources, considerable distance between the power source and vehicle may be necessary. Some of the problems involved in the design of the required transmission line are discussed."
"THE ISOLATED-PHASE BUS which is described here has been developed to meet the need of the modern generating station for a design which is simple to install, has tight enclosure joints, adequate mechanical support and insulation, and easy accessibility when required."
"A description of high-speed (3,000 wpm) low-cost terminal printing equipment using the basic technique of electrostatic printing. Speeds of 30,000 wpm are practicable with line feed on intermittent demand."
"In designing telephone cable, the engineer must take numerous factors into consideration in order that the desired transmission properties may be realized. Thus certain predetermined mechanical and electrical characteristics must be built into the cable."
"THE CONTINUING RAPID GROWTH in the kva ratings of 3,600-rpm generators, as shown in Fig. 1, has been made possible by the development of many new features, and the resulting designs have some distinctive characteristics. The purpose of this article is to describe several of these features and characteristics."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"We in the automobile industry salute the American Institute of Electrical Engineers on the occasion of its 75th Anniversary. Your contributions to our nation's unprecedented technological growth deserve the recognition of all industry."
"Areas of future research must be evaluated in terms of our true needs, spiritual as well as material, if we are ever to obtain a rational and satisfying life."
"ACONDITIONALLY STABLE SYSTEM is a feedback device which is stable for the designed operating conditions but which becomes unstable if the over-all gain is reduced. When a servomechanism is designed for optimum performance, the final system is frequently found to be conditionally stable. The behavior of this class of systems is reliable, provided that operation is confined to the linear regime throughout."
"To determine the most efficient role that a human operator can play in spacecraft of the future, instrumentation has been designed that probes psychophysiological reactions to tasks typical of those presently assigned to the human operator in the air. Information obtained can be of help to designers seeking a balance between men and machines in a complex system."
"AN ESSENTIAL OBJECTIVE of a pulse transmission system is the preservation of some aspect of the pulse shape at the receiver. Phase characteristics of a system, which can generally be neglected in voice transmission, become important in pulse systems, because the shape of a pulse is influenced greatly by the relative phase of the spectrum components. A quantity frequently used to describe this influence is envelope delay distortion. It is a measure of the relative phase shift experienced by neighboring components of the frequency spectrum, and is equal to the slope of the tangent to the phase curve at any given frequency. The object of this article is to illustrate a method for assessing the effects of delay distortion on data-transmission systems, based on experimental tests."
"The technical societies' greatest problem is that of gearing their operations to a rapidly changing scene of scientific and technological growth. It is essential for the societies, along with the colleges and universities, to study this problem and find ways of encouraging young people to venture forth with a true pioneering research spirit."
"THE HEATING of dielectric materials by means of microwave energy was investigated in the General Electric Company a decade ago by members of the Research Laboratory, who demonstrated the feasibility of preheating plastics and heating foods using a magnetron oscillator at a frequency of 1,000 mc (megacycles). In recent years, the GL-6787 magnetron, operating in the 915-mc Industrial-Scientific-Medical band, has been developed as a source of power for these applications. In order to design equipment for efficient preheating, it is necessary to know the characteristics of the materials as a function of temperature. An initial investigation of the effectiveness of 915-mc heating on various dielectric materials has been conducted."
"A discussion of the formation of the positive and negative charges left on the surface of insulation as a result of the electric discharge between a metal and a dielectric surface. Results of measurements with the rotating probe electrometer are given. This new method has opened up many experimental techniques for studying the influence of surface charges in high-voltage phenomena."
"IN THE DESIGN of servosystems, two essentially opposing requirements have to be met: fast response and stability. Nonlinear and switching techniques provide new means to decrease the response time of a system without sacrificing stability. An accepted criteria for the evaluation of the response of a switching-type positioning servosystem is based on the time required by the system to settle to the steady state without overshoot, after a step input has been applied to the system. D. McDonald and J. B. Lewis described methods to improve the response time of servosystems by varying the damping coefficient of the system during the transient period. Another method, described by McDonald and A. M. Hopkin, is to reverse the forcing function of the system during the transient period. This method, although providing fast response, requires special measures to avoid erratic operation near the rest position."
"High electric output and long life without maintenance are achieved in a recently developed generating system designed for use in motor coaches. It is expected that this system will also find application in marine engines, power shovels, and military equipment."
"Interest in electrostatic generators has been revised recently because of their possible application in the field of space propulsion. Among their advantages for ion propulsion are ability to operate in a vacuum, generation of power at high voltages, and high efficiency."
"IT HAS BEEN ESTABLISHED that the source of infrared radiation may be anything at a higher temperature than its surroundings, and that the quality and quantity of radiation by any such source is completely predictable and describable through well-known physical laws. The facts in this matter have been collected and summarized in a previously published paper.1"
"This is the concluding installment of a three-part series on the laying of the Atlantic Cable."
"In April and May of 1959, an exchange of visits by computer experts took place between the United States and the USSR. This article describes the series of negotiations which led up to this exchange and the tour itself made by the Russian visitors."
"GROUND-BREAKING ceremonies for the United Engineering Center, a multimillion dollar, 18-story structure to be erected opposite the United Nations in New York City, were held Thursday, October 1, 1959, at 11:00 a.m. Former President Herbert Hoover, representing the older generation of engineers, shared earth-turning honors with a freshman engineering student from Hawaii, Jerry Fujimoto, who represented engineers of the future."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Prospective authors are requested to submit new, unpublished manuscripts for inclusion in the upcoming event described in this call for papers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"When we consider the milleniums through which man struggled feebly, with firebrands, coals, and candles, to push back the walls of darkness, the enlightened years since Thomas Edison's discoveries seem brief indeed."
"A review of some of the events of national and international significance that formed the background and partially inspired the first technical meeting of the Institute 75 years ago in Philadelphia."
"STUDIES of pure liquid dielectrics under the influence of relatively intense electric fields reveal a phenomenon of mass transfer. Two variations of liquid displacement are possible. One is called cross-field displacement. It may be produced by partially immersing two rod-like electrodes in a liquid dielectric. The other is called co-field displacement. This type of mass transfer may be produced by immersing energized electrodes made of parallel screens in the dielectric liquid. Fig. 1 shows a simple cell for cross-field displacement."
"SUBMERGED arc furnaces have been in commercial operation for more than 50 years. However, the literature tells little about what they require from the supplier of the electric energy or what effects they have on the supply system. Information follows on the electrical performance of such a furnace."
"The manager of engineering has the responsibility for assuring optimum utilization of all facilities. The concept of peripheral professional problems points out the many areas of interest to which the manager's attention must be directed."
"An outline of some of the more interesting features of the electric system of the British Vickers Vanguard, new turbo-prop airliner now being flight-tested."
"TO DATE, no satisfactory test has been found which will evaluate the condition of the internal insulation of generator coils and reliably detect deterioration such as illustrated in Fig. 1"
"A change in procedure in which all interested parties have an equal opportunity to propose changes to ASA C62. This will result in one American Standard on Lighting Arresters instead of two or more separate standards that quite∗∗∗ often conflict in overlapping areas."
"Some of the problems that will be encountered in designing a solar-powered space thermoelectric generator are outlined. A test model of a solar-powered generator is described."
"TO UTILIZE the new materials effectively as they become available, it is necessary that searching and severe representative tests be used and the results compared to those for existing materials. From this agreement, it is possible to proceed confidently in the use of these evaluated materials. It is then possible to match more exactly an insulation system to a proposed use. Thus, the user benefits from a better and more economical electric machine."
"A discussion of the design and manufacturing techniques of a direct burial wire that compares favorably in cost with open-wire construction in areas where high-speed wire plows can be used."
"THE THEORETICAL approach so far made in the development of formulas for the direct- and the quadrature-axis subtransient reactances is based on either proportioning the current in the pole-tip bar, depending on its permeance, or evolving an equivalent damper winding on the assumption of sinusoidal distribution of damper currents. Both these methods have their limitations when applied to the case of salient pole synchronous machines. The purpose of this digest is to outline an accurate method of determining the subtransient reactances by estimation of the induced magnetomotive force of each of the rotor circuits in terms of the applied sinusoidal armature magnetomotive force from a knowledge of the field forms for the two axes and the leakage permeances of the damper and the field windings."
"In this discussion of the design of a transistor amplifier which exhibits a linear phase response, the theoretical background as well as experimental techniques are outlined."
"As a result of improved techniques, the quality of flash-welded joints between aluminum and copper has been greatly improved so that they can now be made commercially. To evaluate these techniques, tests were made on 500 joints and the effects of heating on tensile strength, ductility, resistance to impact, and electrical resistance were determined."
"INDUCTION MOTORS have been built in Germany with a free running member carrying d-c excitation. They had excellent characteristics, including 100% power factor. Permanent magnets have been substituted for d-c excited poles in magnetos and in synchronous motors with good results. Why not, one may ask, substitute them for the d-c free running member of the German motor? Assuming this could be done, a design for an 8-pole 10-hp 60-cycle motor, based on the German motor, was made, its equivalent circuit analyzed, and its performance computed."
"Because the radio spectrum is one of our most valuable “natural resources,” the necessity for government regulation is obvious. Certain groups of radio users have formed advisory committees to assist the regulatory bodies in establishing suitable rules. This article discusses some of the interrelationships between these groups in the light of today's technical advances."
"The research laboratory described is a comprehensive facility, capable of duplicating system operating conditions. Its principal function is the development and engineering of electrical and line construction products for power transmission and distribution systems."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Reports on the construction and applicability of a \"space ferry\" designed to shuttle astronauts between the earth and outer space. "
"Advertisement."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"To the members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers joined in the observance of their 75th Anniversary, I send greetings."
"THE YEAR 1958 was marked by widespread progress in electrical engineering, as reported by 32 of the Institute's technical committees in the six broad fields of activity covered."
"A Photographic Record of Some of the Important Electrical Engineering Achievements of the Year."
"The biggest single factor in the economic health of an enterprise, in the author's opinion, is the quality of work its engineers do today and every day. Thus, one of the most important problems industry must face is that of utilizing engineering talent effectively."
"NAILS, WIRE, AND OTHER TRAMP IRON in hay are likely to puncture the stomach of a cow if ingested. Pneumatic conveyors are often the only devices handling hay and conveying speeds of 8,000 feet per minute are common. A metal detector offers no obstruction to flow. Combined with a mechanical rejecting device it offers a means of tramp-iron removal at even the highest pneumatic conveyor speeds. A suitable combination has been described by J. B. Dobie, et al, in an article “Electronic Detection and Removal of Tramp Iron from Chopped Hay,” which appeared in Agricultural Engineering, June, 1953, and by J. B. Dobie and F. C. Jacob in another article “Removing Tramp Iron from Chopped Hay,” which appeared in Electronics, June 1954. This combination is for use with fixed installations such as barns or feedmills. The same method can be adapted to a field forage harvester to make a self-contained unit. However, the blower pipe is shorter, the hay delivery rate is more variable, the hay has variable moisture, the vibration environment is more severe, and the problem of disposal is more awkward for the field harvester as compared to a stationary machine. Appropriate design can accommodate these factors."
"Features of Personal Signaling Service, a new development in the telephone communications field, include pocket-carried receivers and a selective signaling system. Results of a study made after 10 months of operation in the Allentown — Bethlehem area are outlined."
"THE OBJECTIVE of a power transformer design and estimate cost program is to supply accurately and quickly output data which not only meets the desired design characteristics, but also results in the most efficient utilization of labor and materials. A program to supply complete core and winding, tank and cooling equipment and estimate cost data for any two or three winding power transformer of 2,500 to 50,000 kva requires 7 times the available internal storage of the IBM (International Business Machines) 650 digital computer. The 650 magnetic drum permits a maximum storage space of 2,000 ten-digit words, with each instruction or constant constituting one word space. The program instructions and constants are loaded by punched cards, which makes it desirable to maintain iterative calculations within the capacity of the drum; the alternative is to reload data. Some iterations would necessitate the loading and reloading of decks of punched cards a number of times."
"In reactor control instrumentation, such as the ORNL (Oak Ridge National Laboratory) system, certain interactions accompany the interconnection of safety amplifiers. These interactions, or loading effects, are discussed in order to facilitate understanding of the unavoidable variations in trip or scram point."
"New knowledge is presented that may reverse basic concepts of the relative merits of single-vs 3-phase motors for residential uses and start a trend in favor of single-phase residential service."
"IN 1953, a requirement for additional circuits developed along the K carrier routes in Nebraska and California. Two options were available to meet these requirements."
"An extremely accurate redetermination of a fundamental physical constant — the gyromagnetic ratio of the proton — is presented. More accurate values for all physical constants whose values depend on the measurement of magnetic fields are now possible."
"THIS ARTICLE presents the results of engineering and laboratory studies on the use of water as a coolant for direct cooling of the copper conductors of turbine-generator stator windings. Table I compares the relative rates of heat removal by several fluids under similar conditions that are practical for employment in turbine-generators."
"Shift registers, when composed of static elements, combine flexibility and reliability in performing control functions for industrial materials handling systems. Circuit configurations and field applications are described for dispatching, scanning, counting, and static stepping switch functions."
"A RECENTLY developed frequency transient magnitude measuring system measures, accurately and conveniently with digital read out, the magnitude of frequency transients in power systems. It is not affected by the variables which normally produce inaccuracies in other frequency transient measuring systems."
"THE AIEE Student Branch at Iowa State College, Ames, Iowa, was authorized on April 15, 1903. Present Counselor is W. L. Hughes, (AM '56), assistant professor of electrical engineering. The Division of Engineering at Iowa State College was organized about 1896 with four departments. It now has 11 degree-granting departments, an Engineering Experiment Station and an Engineering Extension Service. The Electrical Engineering Building (right) was completed in 1952."
"A PICTURE of telephone engineers living in a college dormitory, eating in a college dining hall, and walking across a campus to classes on communications theory conducted by college professors is an intriguing one. This has been taking place during the past year in South Carolina. It is part of a new method of providing technical training to experienced telephone engineers developed by the School of Engineering of Clemson College and the engineering department of the Southern Bell Telephone and Telegraph Company."
"A new type of television receiver especially designed for classroom use has been developed by Motorola. Called the “Classroom 21,” the versatile new set can be used in either closed-circuit television systems or for viewing over-the-air broadcasts from educational and commercial stations."
"Engineers' Council for Professional Development (ECPD) has announced that Section VII — Electrical Engineering of a Selected Bibliography of Engineering Subjects is now available."
"Over-all demand for engineering graduates probably will be somewhat higher in 1959, a University of Michigan (U-M) official indicates."
"A series of new products on the subject of electricity has been announced by Product Design Company, Redwood City, Calif., designers of science teaching aids for elementary and junior high schools. The focal point of the new series is a model Hydroelectric Dam and Generator Kit. The dam reservoir is molded from sturdy polystyrene, and materials are provided for pupils to construct their own dam. Extensive use of clear plastic in the generator unit permits full observation of all working parts. An intake tower controls the flow of water through the penstock to operate the turbine generator. The generator unit will also work independently off any faucet outlet. Six volts a-c current are generated — sufficient to light a lamp, ring a bell, or operate a small d-c motor. Accessories include a rectifier and d-c motor, transmission lines and transformer, ammeter, voltmeter, a hydraulic kit, and a kit for teaching magnetism."
"THE AIEE Winter General Meeting, to be held at the Hotel Statler (meeting headquarters), the Hotel Sheraton-McAlpin, and the Hotel Governor Clinton, New York, N. Y., February 1–6, 1959, will feature the largest technical program in the history of the Institute. The social activities, for which the Winter General Meeting is well known, will again be outstanding. A group of varied and interesting inspection trips has been arranged, closely allied with the technical sessions."
"THE ANNUAL REPORT of the Corporation and its Departments, for the fiscal year October 1, 1957, to September 30, 1958, has been issued by United Engineering Trustees, Inc. (UET)."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A LISTING FOLLOWS of the papers which were scheduled to be presented at the 1958 AIEE Fall General Meeting which was cancelled due to a hotel employees strike in Pittsburgh, Pa. Copies of numbered papers are available to members for 40¢ each and to nonmembers for 80¢ each. Send order and remittance to: AIEE Order Department, 33 W. 39th St., New York 18, N. Y. Papers marked CP∗ have not been printed by the Institute."
"WHATEVER YOUR GRADE may be, these certifications of membership mounted in attractive laminated plastic plaques (above) will make a handsome display for home or office. Fellows, Members, and Associate Members may obtain diplomas; certificates are available to Affiliate Members, (Diplomas for Fellows and Members will carry signatures of both Secretary and President: diplomas for Associate Members and certificates for Affiliate Members will carry the signature of the Secretary.)"
"THE FOLLOWING are sample contents lists from some of the leading Soviet scientific and engineering journals, translations of which are being made available by arrangement with the Pergamon Institute, a nonprofit organization. For a listing and prices of the publications, available on an annual subscription basis, and ordering instructions see p. 52A of this issue of Electrical Engineering."
"THE ALPR (Argonne Low-Power Reactor) is a direct-cycle boiling-water reactor of 3,000-kw gross reactor heat, with enriched uranium fuel; moderated and cooled by natural circulation of light (ordinary) water."
"A TELETYPWRITER, at 3,000 wpm the fastest general-purpose message printer in communications history, was announced recently by the Department of the Army."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Higher, Faster, Farther Missile. Existence of a new supersonic air-to-air guided missile which climbs higher, flies faster, and has a greater range than any of its predecessors, was announced recently by the U.S. Air Force and Hughes Aircraft Company, its developer and producer. Fourth in the family of Falcon missiles produced by the company, the new GAR-3 (guided air rocket) is scheduled to go into operational service as principal firepower of advanced all-weather jet interceptors of the Air Defense Command. One of the principal differences between the new Falcon and other models is a distinctive white ceramic nose cone, longer, and more pointed than the stubby, rounded radomes of earlier “birds.” According to company engineers, the nose cone represents a significant development of a material capable of withstanding a great variety of environments created by both speed and temperature and enables the Falcon to adjust to these environments in fractions of seconds. Other external changes in the GAR-3 include its greater length (slightly over 7 feet), increased wing span, an extension of stabilizers so that they reach beyond the center of the airframe."
"Unusually uniform electrical grade steel has helped make possible a new concept in smashing the atom, and will make possible the gathering of much more information on these basic building blocks of the universe. The new concept, called strong focusing, depends on huge magnets holding protons on course and using these particles to hit and break the nuclei of other atoms. The nuclear properties can then be observed and studied. For this purpose, a mammoth new proton synchrotron is being built at Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, N. Y."
"The Press and Publications Division of the United Nations Office of Public Information issues certain information media releases which are available to the public, but which are noted to be “not an official record.” These press releases can be obtained at United Nations, N.Y."
"Effective as of September 18, 1958, the National Bureau of Standards (NBS) has discontinued the distribution of radioactivity standard samples of longer-lived radioisotopes which are now commercially available."
"Components for Belgium's first atomic power reactor are moving toward completion at several plants of the Westinghouse Electric Corporation, Pittsburgh, Pa. The atomic power plant, which is rated at 11,500 kilowatts, is scheduled for operation late in 1959 at Mol near Brussels."
"Through a new method which is unlike ordinary fluoroscopic inspection, another major step in automatic quality control was unveiled recently when the X-ray Department of the General Electric (GE) Company demonstrated the latest in television X-ray — the GE TVX X-ray image intensification system."
"Row to make an automatic report of the sun's radiation from dawn to dusk was explained at the University of Michigan recently by Y. T. Sihvonen of General Motors (GM) Research Laboratories' Physics Department."
"At the invitation of Dr. V. K. Zworykin, of the Medical Electronics Center of the Rockefeller Institute, and with the cooperation of UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization) and a number of scientific societies, a group of 76 representatives from 11 countries met at the New Faculty of Medicine in Paris, France, in June 1958 to plan expanded international cooperation in the field of medical electronics."
"Electroluminescence from the surface layer of barium titanate has been observed at the National Bureau of Standards (NBS) and is now being used as a tool to study the material itself. The light emission, which is extremely low in both intensity and efficiency, occurs when an r-f voltage is applied to the BaTiO3 sample. Data obtained from the emitted light have led to an understanding of the mechanism by which the light is generated. This, in turn, provides knowledge about the unusual surface layer of barium titanate."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers"
"This section contains complete multientry indexes covering the contents of Electrical Engineering for the calendar year 1958. It includes all special articles and authors, all news items, and all items published in Electrical Engineering on AIEE technical program papers, whether they appear in the form of a digest, essentially full text, or full text. The technical program papers are indexed also by both title and author."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"It will be a notable event not only in the development of engineering but in our national history when the American Institute of Electrical Engineers celebrates its Seventy-fifth Anniversary."
"A report prepared by the Intersociety Relations Committee of AIEE and approved by the Executive Committee. This report was presented to the Board of Directors of Engineers Joint Council (EJC) in response to a request to the constituent societies to prepare statements evaluating the work of EJC and suggesting areas for its future development."
"A nuclear electric generating station, using a pressurized water type reactor, is under construction by the Consolidated Edison Company at a site about 24 miles north of New York City. The electrical features, particularly as they differ from those of a conventional plant, are described."
"THE COMPENSATOR distance relaying scheme is a new and different approach to the problem of relaying interphase faults on transmission lines. It differs from conventional distance relaying in that no one relay is assigned to any particular phase. Instead, one polyphase unit responds to all phase-to-phase faults, and a second polyphase unit responds to 3-phase faults. Between the two of these units, one or the other or both will respond to any 2-phase-to-ground within the desired zone of protection."
"THE INTRODUCTION of a 3-phase compensator concept affords an entirely new approach to distance relaying. This new scheme has been designed so that one relay provides protection against all phase faults for a single zone. Transient overreach of the sensing unit has been eliminated. A single type of basic relay unit is used to interpret the output of the static compensator network and the moving element in the relay unit has been designed for low contact bounce at both low and high energy levels."
"THE COMPENSATOR distance relays described in the two companion articles present an opportunity for considerable simplification of the trip and carrier-control circuits of a complete 3-zone distance carrier relaying system. The use of only two inherently directional polyphase distance units per zone, responsive to all phase faults in each zone of protection, reduces by at least one third the number of contacts associated with phase-fault protection."
"A nontechnical review of the development of gaseous dielectrics. Topics discussed are history, action of gas insulators, problems in choosing a suitable gas, established uses for SF6, and new gaseous dielectrics."
"SEMICONDUCTOR DEVICES are often bolted to a metal plate which acts as a cooling fin. This paper shows a determination of optimum design proportions."
"A survey of the growing need and problems of developing an air — ground radiotelephone service connected with the land-line telephone network."
"THE NEW HEDGE SUBSTATION of Sacramento Municipal Utility District, located a few miles southeast of Sacramento, Calif., is designed to receive firming power over two lines from Pacific Gas and Electric Company plus substantial amounts of power from the U. S. Bureau of Reclamation Central Valley Project and from the new Upper American River Project, all at number of disconnecting switches and insulation points is small; extra buses are not required; relaying is not overly difficult; and when a line is disconnected the ring may still be closed."
"This first part of a two part article discusses the interesting and dramatic effects displayed when tiny spheres, usually of magnetic material, move or are driven over the surface of a dielectric. Demonstrations of these phenomena may be made by simple means and at low cost, in terms of the equipment described."
"The comparative safety aspects of the use of potentials higher than the present 120/240-volt level in residences, as covered in an AIEE symposium, are outlined. The discussion includes shock hazards to people and risks of damage to property and equipment from fires of electrical origin."
"THE ELECTRICAL FEATURES of the Philadelphia Electric Company's 650-mw Eddystone Station are noteworthy because of the problems created by the use of supercritical pressure turbine-generators, and because of the complexities of integrating this large block of power into the existing system. Reliable and economical solutions of these and associated operating problems were given primary consideration in the execution of all phases of the project, from the planning stages through engineering, design, and construction."
"A LARGE INDUSTRIAL PLANT on the eastern seaboard has developed a method of drying and rehabilitating transformers used in its electric power distribution system in its own shops. The procedure does not require a drying oven and produces results which equal or excel oven-drying in time requirements and improvement of insulation-resistance values. Development of this process was made necessary by the fact that the plant was faced with the prospect of failure of several 5,000-kva 11.5- and 2.5-kv transformers, which would have seriously crippled operations, and which readily could have resulted in complete shutdown of the plant for an extended period."
"THE OFFICERS of the Student Branch at the University of Michigan are: Chairman J. S. Squire, Vice-Chairman D. E. Atkinson, Activities Chairman D. M. Yee, IRE (Institute of Radio Engineers) Secretary H. W. Estry, AIEE Secretary J. T. Olson, and Treasurer F. L. Miller. Academic Counselor is Prof. J. G. Tarboux."
"INCREASED USE of amplifiers at frequencies of 0 to 20 cycles per second has focused attention on the problem of designing direct-coupled amplifiers. Grid current, in particular, is a problem, inasmuch as it causes a change in tube bias that cannot be distinguished from a signal. For this reason, direct-coupled amplifiers are designed to operate in the region where grid current is normally considered negligible. Operation in this region, however, is not in itself a solution because even these small currents are significant in direct-coupled amplifiers. Since grid-current characteristics for this region are not included in handbooks, the designer must solve the new problem of measuring these currents."
"ENGINEERING EDUCATION of sound quality is effectively integrated into the planned economy of the USSR."
"Northeastern University marked the 10th anniversary of its graduate program in engineering in the fall of 1958 with a record enrollment of more than 1,500 students."
"The first joint meeting of the Illinois Valley Section of the AIEE and the newly organized Bradley University AIEE Student Branch was held December 4, 1958, in Jobst Hall on the Bradley University Campus."
"The College of Engineering at Valparaiso University (VU) was recently accorded national recognition by the Engineers' Council for Professional Development (ECPD) and became one of four schools in Indiana to receive this honor. Others are Notre Dame, Purdue, and Rose Polytechnical Institute."
"“INDUSTRY IS HUMMING IN DIXIE” has been selected as the theme for the AIEE Joint District Meeting for the Southeast District No. 4 and South Central District No. 13. The meeting will be held in Atlanta, Ga., April 7–10, 1959. Headquarters for the meeting will be the Dinkier Plaza Hotel."
"AS OF DECEMBER 1, according to W. E. Scholz, secretary, AIEE Member-Gifts Campaign Committee, the Institute had passed the half-way mark in its fund drive for contributions to the United Engineering Center — reaching 50.5% of its quota of $900,000."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE Board of Directors of the Institute in June 1956 originated a proposal for the organization of the engineering profession, which has since come to be known as the Functional Plan (Electrical Engineering, February 1958, p. 119). The Board at the same meeting took another action in which it suggested to the National Society of Professional Engineers (NSPE) that that society open its membership “for a period of years, to unregistered engineers holding suitable grades in technical societies subscribing to ECPD (Engineers' Council for Professional Development) uniform membership grade standards.” The “suitable grades” in AIEE would be Fellow and Member. This suggestion was made in the belief that its adoption would strengthen NSPE in the role proposed for it under the Functional Plan."
"The AIEE Nominating Committee will meet in the Buffalo Room, Hotel Statler, New York, N. Y., 9:00 a.m. February 2, 1959, during the Winter General Meeting of the Institute, to nominate candidates for AIEE offices to be voted on by the membership in the Spring of 1959. Representatives receive travel allowance. Alternates are required to attend only if called upon to serve in place of their representative. (See Constitution C30, 31, 32, 33; Bylaws B27, 28; and Electrical Engineering, November 1958, p. 1055–56.) Members of the committee are as follows:"
"The selection of the recipient of this award is made by the Recognition Awards Committee of the AIEE. The award consists of a cash stipend of $500, a bronze medal, and a suitably engraved certificate. In the event that the recipient is a group of individuals, the stipend shall be equally divided among the members of the group, and a medal and certificate provided for each."
"J. H. Foote, president of Commonwealth Associates, Jackson, Mich., and past AIEE District vice-president, was guest speaker at the regular meeting of the Arrowhead Section of AIEE on November 14, 1958, at the Duluth Athletic Club."
"Lt. Gen. R. A. Wheeler, who has been announced as the recipient of the Hoover Medal for 1958, will be the guest of honor at a special dinner meeting of The Society of American Military Engineers (S.A.M.E.) on February 19, 1959, when the presentation of the award will be made. He is a past president of S.A.M.E."
"The Textile Industry Subcommittee of AIEE has made the final arrangements for its Conference, to be held April 2–3, 1959, in Atlanta, Ga., at the Heart of Atlanta Motel."
"Engineers Joint Council has published the third report of its study series on Professional Income of Engineers initiated in 1953. The report presents the most comprehensive analysis of engineering earnings ever completed in the United States, including information on 190,810 engineering graduates in various employment activities."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"AN INTENSIVE PROGRAM aimed at “advancing the frontiers of knowledge of light production and its effect on all living things,” was launched with the recent dedication of the new multimillion-dollar Lamp Research Center of the General Electric (GE) Lamp Division at Nela Park, Ohio."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"IN EARLY NOVEMBER, Mars was approximately 45 million miles away from Earth. At that time, it was closer to Earth than it will be again for the next 17 years. Seventh in size, Mars is the fourth closest planet to the sun. Earth, fourth largest of the planets, is third from the sun. Mars is 4,399 miles in diameter, Earth 7,918 miles in diameter."
"A new radio broadcasting system that provides full stereophonic sound through a single receiver and dual speakers on the regular AM broadcast band was unveiled recently by the Radio Corporation of America (RCA)."
"The front-line infantryman is not being forgotten in this age of rockets to the moon, earth satellites, and intercontinental missiles. A new mobile radar system designed to help protect the foot soldier from his most deadly enemy — mortar fire — was unveiled at the opening of the annual Association of the U. S. Army convention being held at the Sheraton Park Hotel, Washington, D. C."
"A recent experimental development of a gaseous fuel cell was successful in lighting two 15-watt electric light bulbs at the Allis-Chalmers (A-C) Research Division."
"A unique, phenomenally high-precision experiment has given strong further confirmation of Einstein's Special Theory of Relativity, it was announced jointly by the International Business Machines Corporation's (IBM) Watson Research Laboratory and the Physics Department of Columbia University, New York, N. Y."
"A noted Korean eye surgeon will probably go down in history as the father of mass communications in his beleaguered country."
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers"
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The transmission of telegraphic signals across the Atlantic Ocean by Marconi in 1901 was a first in communications. The transmission of information from outer space by a solar-powered transmitter aboard Vanguard I in 1958 was another first in communications. Yet neither achievement was a scientific revolution. Instead, each was the inevitable result of an orderly development to which many scientists and engineers had contributed."
"A discussion of the direction and rate of growth of electric power based on the experience of the Commonwealth Edison Company. Factors are noted which may greatly affect this direction and rate. The interdependence of the coal and electric industry is emphasized."
"An introduction to standardization activities of the AIEE published to give members and users of the Standards Manual a better appreciation of the steps taken in the development of standards, guides, and test codes as well as ASA procedures."
"THE LAST 30 YEARS was a period marked with outstanding advances in certain areas of the field of electrical insulation. This period began with what might be termed the “synthetic chemical age” and ended with the start of the “space age.” The progress made during the period may be divided into the following four categories: (1) advances in understanding and application of dielectric theories, (2) development of a host of new synthetic materials, (3) creation of a new system of classifying materials and the revision of the electrical insulation temperature standards, and (4) application of new insulating materials to electrical equipment."
"Recently the FCC amended its remote-control rules to include stations having powers greater than 10 kw or a directional antenna. A directional station applying for remote-control privileges must have an extremely stable antenna system. This article covers design factors which are important in achieving this stability."
"THE DIELECTRIC SAMPLE HOLDER described was designed for the purpose of measuring the dielectric properties of thin sheet insulation from room temperature to 600 C. The frequency to be covered was from power frequency to 100 kilocycles and the sample thickness ranged from 0.001 inch to 0.050 inch. In the design, considerations were given to a method of applying heat, ease of changing samples, accuracy of measurement and the time required to obtain the data. The holder was designed to connect to the type 1610A General Radio Capacitance Measuring Assembly or any similar type capacitance bridge."
"THE MAJOR FACTOR determining the life of current-carrying contact systems is contact metal erosion resulting from electric discharge in the contact gap. In general, contact system deterioration is proportional to the energy dissipated in the contact gap. Typically, a 5-ampere aircraft fire extinguisher solenoid may discharge 2.69 joules of energy in the contact gap compared to an 0.2 joules of energy in the contact gap for a 5-ampere resistive circuit."
"Microwave by wire or surface-wave transmission by G-Line is a new way of propagating microwaves In nonradiating mode along an insulated wire which does not require FCC allocation. Its simplicity and low loss permit it to replace economically coaxial and radio transmission. Practical examples are given for G-Line components and complete G-Line systems."
"RECENTLY field tests were performed at the Tanners Creek Station of the Indiana and Michigan Electric Company to investigate overvoltages which were produced when a 1,360-foot section of 345-kv bus was de-energized by an air-break disconnecting switch.1 The high transient overvoltages not only caused severe duty on connected lightning arresters, but also induced surge voltages in the station low-voltage power and control circuits. In conjunction with the field investigations, analytical studies were initiated in an attempt to determine the causes of the overvoltages and to develop remedial measures which could be used to eliminate the overvoltages."
"Technique of recharging a cyclotron with a special oil is a complicated 2-day procedure in which change is effected through a series of filters into the coil tank of the cyclotron's electromagnet."
"IN THE SAGE SYSTEM, the function of converting the data in the form generated or used by the processing equipment to a form suitable for transmission over the communication channels is performed by the terminal apparatus of the Western Electric Company A1 digital data signaling system. At the originating terminal, the data source furnishes three separate components of information, timing, data, and start, to the digital data transmitter (DDT)."
"In the second part of a two-part article, additional experiments with small spheres of magnetic material are described. Not only are the results interesting in themselves, but also it is hoped that they may serve as analogs for such phenomena as Brownian movement, thermal movement of molecules, crystal formation, bacterial chaining, and others."
"FUTURE electronic computers will “think” at speeds 10 and 20 times faster than now by using a magnetic pin-sized device, thus enabling new missile and satellite advances. This device, a glass rod with a magnetic coating (B), serves as both a switching and information storage element. Top speed of the magnetic element is as yet unknown. But research models (D) showed switching characteristics as fast as 4 millimicroseconds."
"THE AIEE STUDENT BRANCH at Yale University, New Haven, Conn., was started on October 13, 1911, by Prof. C. F. Scott, who founded the system of student branches when he was president of AIEE during 1902–03. Until the Connecticut Section of the AIEE was established in 1921, the Yale Branch served as a meeting place for both students and practicing engineers in the area. The present Branch Counselor is Prof. J. C. May (M '51)."
"THIS ARTICLE DISCUSSES the generation of random numbers for use in auditory psychophysical experiments conducted at the University of Michigan's Electronic Defense Group laboratories. These experiments, which require randomized signal presentation, are designed to test theoretical hypotheses related to the operation of the human auditory mechanism."
"Ohio State University's curriculum in welding engineering has been accredited by the Engneers' Council for Professional Development (ECPD), according to word received by President N. G. Fawcett."
"The AIEE serves me in two ways — directly, by keeping me informed of new developments, and indirectly, through its fight for unity and professional. As a member of the AIEE, you, too, fly the banners of high professional standards and important technical knowledge."
"With the placement of fuel elements containing 2.2 kilograms of enriched uranium into its nuclear core, the TRIGA research reactor at the University of Arizona (UA) began operating on December 6."
"Dedication of the California Institute of Technology Radio Observatory on December 19 marked completion of virtually all mechanical construction and the start of the “shakedown” phase of the $1.5 million installation."
"ATLANTA, GA., will be host to the AIEE Joint District Meeting for the Southeast District No. 4 and South Central District No. 13, April 7–10, 1959, with headquarters in the Dinkier Plaza Hotel. “Industry Is Humming Dixie” has been selected as the theme of the meeting, which will feature technical sessions, social events, and inspection trips of unusual interest."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE 1959 Western Joint Computer Conference, sponsored by AIEE, Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE), and Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), will be held March 3–5, at the Fairmont Hotel in San Francisco, Calif."
"AT A LUNCHEON MEETING of the Board of Directors of Engineers Joint Council (EJC), held in the Hotel Roosevelt, January 16, 1959, EJC presented a citation to the Westinghouse Educational Foundation and the Carnegie Institute of Technology for conducting the George Westinghouse Scholarship Program, one of the first national scholarship programs to encourage science education. The luncheon was held during an all-day open meeting of the Board of Directors of EJC. After the ceremonies, an address, “Engineering, the Policies and Program in the National Science Foundation,” was delivered by Dr. R. D. Brode, associate director of the National Science Foundation (NSF)."
"DETAILS of the 1959 Nuclear Congress, the nation's largest gathering of specialists in the atomic field, were announced recently. Some 40 sessions are to be held during the 5-day Congress, April 5–10, at the Public Auditorium in Cleveland, Ohio."
"NEARLY 90 papers will be presented at 27 technical sessions scheduled for the 21st annual American Power Conference to be held at the Hotel Sherman, Chicago. Ill., March 31 through April 2, 1959. Conference Director is R. A. Budenholzer, professor of mechanical engineering at Illinois Institute of Technology, which is sponsoring the Conference."
"THIS IS A SUMMARY of progress and problems. By the time it is published, there will doubtless be more progress and new, if not fewer, problems. Right now, at the close of 1958, there is a healthy balance of progress and problems; the kind of balance that always stimulates and challenges engineers."
"A Conference on Analog and Digital Instrumentation will be sponsored by the AIEE Recording and Controlling Instrumentation Committee April 20–21, 1959. at the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel in Philadelphia, Pa. Co-operating societies are the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, Institute of Radio Engineers, and Instrument Society of America."
"Plans are under way for the Spring Meeting of the Empire District No. 1 of AIEE. The meeting will be held in Syracuse, N. Y., April 29-May 1, 1959, in the Syracuse Hotel. The theme of the meeting will be “New Horizons in Power and Industry.”"
"Bell Telephone Laboratories and the AIEE have announced the establishment of an award for achievement in the field of telecommunications, to be known as the Mervin J. Kelly Award."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A REVOLUTIONARY METHOD of calibrating airborne compass systems by “rotating the world” around a parked aircraft — or guided missile — was announced recently by the U.S. Air Force (USAF) and Sperry Gyroscope Company, Great Neck, N.Y."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"FROM FAIRBANKS, ALASKA, to Phoenix, Ariz., in 30 minutes — by car! That is just one of the accelerated tests available to Ford Motor Company in “Hurricane Road.”"
"“Tom Thumb” Neutron “Detective.” Splitting atoms of uranium, placed on a sensitive semiconductor no larger than a pinhead, make up the smallest known neutron detector. Recently developed by Westinghouse atomic scientists, it is designed to probe deep inside a nuclear reactor core and map the neutron flux — the most basic piece of information needed for proper reactor design. Its tiny size permits “looking” into tight, out-of-the-way spots, such as the spaces between close-fitting core fuel plates. Presented before a meeting of the ANS by Dr. K. H. Sun, advisory physicist in the materials engineering department in Pittsburgh, Pa., the detector was said to have “potential significance comparable to conventional gas or scintillation types of detectors” now in common use. It consists of a tiny slice or silicon of germanium having a sensitive junction or layer near the top surface of the slab and is known as a semiconductor diode. It is commonly used in such devices as rectifiers and solar batteries. The detector has a deposit of uranium on it about a millionth of an ounce. Hair-thin copper wires are soldered to it and then it is sealed inside one end of a thin aluminum tube about the size of a piece of spaghetti. The detector is wired to suitable electronic amplifyng and recording apparatus and is ready to be inserted into the reactor core. Slow-speed neutrons strike this uranium surface and cause U-235 atoms to split apart thus producing “fission fragments — fast charged nuclei of atoms that burst into being as the uranium nucleus falls apart.” The energized particles crash through the diode detector junction and upset its electrical balance. This results in an electrical pulse that can be detected and counted."
"Anticipating expiration of its wholesale power contract with the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) in June 1958, the Memphis Light, Gas & Water Division devised plans in 1955 to build its own generating stations rather than rely on other sources for its requirements. Fast-growing power needs demanded a reliable and low-cost source of abundant electric power. The publicly owned Thos. H. Allen Electric Generating Station will produce this power at the same relative rates to consumers as now prevail under the present TVA contract."
"Today's virtual stream of new automatic machines, processes, and devices continues to have an increasing effect in the area of the world's general knowledge and its communication of that knowledge. Two recent developments, for example, deal with information processing and with information distribution. New machines to help make possible the “automatic library” of the future were demonstrated in Washington, D.C., by International Business Machines Corporation (IBM) at the International Conference on Scientific Information."
"As an addition to its Lighting Institute at Nela Park, Ohio, General Electric Company (GE) recently opened the “best lighted office” to the public officially."
"The new “Radio-Phone” was described as a “major advance in the growing field of personal communication,” by President J. L. Burns of the Radio Corporation of America (RCA). He said the Radio-Phone will be priced at about $100 a unit, and will be capable of two-way voice transmission over a distance of several miles. The new citizens radio, is expected to find wide use among small-boat enthusiasts, hunters, fishermen, and farmers, as well as in homes and automobiles. It will also be useful in railroad marshaling yards, oil fields, construction projects, and for many other person-to-person applications."
"With a tight grip on the hidden cable, the picturesque cable cars of San Francisco, Calif., are hauled smoothly up its steep hills. The power for this spectacular hill-climbing feat is supplied by a single 700-hp Fairbanks-Morse electric motor."
"The first technological conference in the United States at which blind engineers, technologists, and mathematicians were principal participants and discussion leaders has made some important contributions to technology and blindness, according to M. R. Barnett, executive director of the American Foundation for the Blind in New York. The 3-day conference, just adjourned, was held in New York City."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question"
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"It is a pleasure, both personally and officially, to bring to members of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers greetings and felicitations on the observance of your 75th anniversary. Anniversary observances are useful in that they encourage us to take an appraising glance at the past and to re-examine our plans and hopes for the future."
"The Institute's role in the phenomenal progress made during the past 75 years is summarized by President Hickernell with highlights from reports and records of the AIEE and its affiliated organizations."
"AMONG the advantages of twin conductors are the reduction of the surface gradient and of the inductive reactance of the phase conductors. The typical conductor arrangement of the single circuit line with twin conductors is shown in Fig. 1. C is the intragroup spacing; i.e., the distance between the centers of the twin conductors of each phase."
"Commemorating the Institute's Diamond Jubilee, Mr. Killian emphasizes the fact that the engineering profession is faced with unprecedented requirements for excellence, peak performance, and public service — the past having been “a prologue to the future.”"
"THE THERMAL RESISTIVITY of soils is an important factor in the economy of systems of buried electric power cables. This resistivity is a function of the volume fractions of the solid, liquid, and gaseous phases of which soils are normally composed, and of their structural arrangement. Inasmuch as the solid phases usually possess lower thermal resistivities than the liquid and gaseous phases and, because the latter are greatly affected by external factors such as weather and topography and, hence, are subject to cyclic variations, the volume proportion and the structural arrangement of the solid soil constituents determine the maximum theoretical thermal resistivity of a soil. The dry densities of soils are often used instead of the volume proportions of solids. An increase in dry density by one pound per cubic foot results in an average decrease of thermal resistivity of 3 per cent. Soil systems, as found in nature or as obtained by normal backfilling practices, are usually neither at their most loose nor at their densest possible state. Between these two states, there is normally a difference of about 36 pounds with the natural state often having a density of about 12 pounds above the most loose. This indicates the potentialities of decreasing the thermal resistance of soils by means of better and more appropriate compaction methods."
"ALTHOUGH a low-voltage circuit, connected to the system by a transformer, has no direct exposure to lightning, lightning surge voltages can be produced in this circuit as a result of surge voltage impact on the high-voltage side of the transformer. Even though a lightning arrester is connected on the high-voltage side of the transformer, surge voltages transferred to the low-voltage side can be dangerous especially to lower BIL equipments such as rotating machines and dry-type transformers."
"Some of the outstanding electrical features of Commonwealth Edison's Dresden Nuclear Power Station, now nearing completion, are described. Among these features are safety systems fortifying other systems to provide reliable safeguards against infraction of normal operating procedures."
"A SYSTEM for transmission of binary digital data over telephone circuits has been developed for the sage system of air defense. This data transmission system had to meet stringent and varied requirements for data rate, error rate, general applicability, cost, and reliability in the face of enemy action."
"NEW semiconductor devices are being developed constantly. The controlled rectifier is one of the most exciting of these new devices. This device was commercially introduced by the General Electric Company early in 1958 and has been in production ever since. Inasmuch as the controlled rectifier is capable of performing many of the functions of magnetic amplifiers and thyratrons, it represents another tool with which the engineer should be acquainted."
"THE JOHN FRITZ MEDAL is awarded annually by a board composed of lour representatives of each of the four national engineering societies — the American Institute of Electrical Engineers, the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, the American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical and Petroleum Engineers, and the American Society of Civil Engineers for notable scientific or industrial achievements, regardless of nationality or sex and in any field of pure or applied science."
"STRICTLY SPEAKING in the American tradition has been the rise of Mervin J. Kelly from a school principal's son to the chairmanship of the board of the world-famous Bell Telephone Laboratories. The secret of his career resides in his inventive genius, perseverance, and keen foresight. Recognized for his character and ability, and honored by his contemporaries throughout his eventful career, few men, if any, have contributed more to the progress of the world than has Mervin J. Kelly, and fewer still have lived to see such full fruition of their ideas and endeavor. He is one of the group of great electrical engineers. Such men as he come into the world but rarely. Their composition requires the happy combination of many qualities: energy, courage, vision, the ability to seize upon essentials, the inventive spark, and the power of influencing the minds of other men. This country has been fortunate in the production of a few such geniuses, scientists, and engineers, who have been at the root and basis of limitless changes."
"I RECEIVE the 1959 John Fritz Medal with pride and humility. To be enrolled among the illustrious recipients of this medal, extending across the last half century, is a sobering honor. It is a superlative climax to my 41-year career of service to science and technology as a member of the Bell System, that comes to its close at the end of this month with my retirement from Bell System service upon reaching my 65th birthday."
"ONE LIMITATION of previously known methods of melting ice from transmission lines has been the range of line lengths that could be so treated while in service. The 60° phase-shift method is applicable to 34.5 kv lines of only 25 to 35 miles in length depending upon design impedance and conductor size. To circumvent this limitation, methods of shifting phases 19° and 41° were developed. The range of lengths that can now be cleared of ice while in service has been increased to include lines 5 to 25 miles long."
"This is the first of a series of two articles on the main aspects of the industrial research work in France for the preparation of two important electrical energy transmission projects — the establishment of the French 380/420 kv system, and the submarine d-c cable interconnection between Great Britain and France. The concluding article dealing with the latter project will appear in the June issue."
"THE RAPID DEVELOPMENT of germanium and silicon power rectifier components in recent years has posed unique problems in fault current protection. These two types of rectifiers are characterized by the extremely high current densities tolerable in the active rectifying element at normal loads while maintaining low forward voltage drop and, thus, high efficiency."
"A description of a completely nonsynchronous transmission system which solves the problem of handling data at high transmission rates over a mobile extension to a printing telegraph network."
"A review of the activities and services of the Engineering Societies Library. Its unique documentation center and unrivalled search facilities have earned it world-wide reputation and use."
"The Vallecitos Boiling Water Reactor, in addition to being a power-producing plant, has the fundamental purpose of providing a facility for testing fuel and operating components for other reactor plants. Methods of operating and staffing, as well as maintenance experience and problems, are discussed."
"THE WORD “perspective” implies a whole view, complete in all its dimensions and in correct relation to its background. I want to sketch such a view of engineering today, with special attention to some new dimensions of professional responsibility. Going back a bit in history, we can start by separating the threads of science and engineering which are so closely interwoven in the fabric of modern civilization. In this way, we can identify those characteristics which are predominant in the work of engineers."
"SEVERAL INVESTIGATORS have shown that in a nonuniform field the positive direct breakdown voltage versus pressure characteristic of sulfur hexa-fluoride (SF6) exhibits a very pronounced maximum. Pure nitrogen (N2) does not show such a maximum. This unexpected performance is best illustrated by Fig. 1. Although the positive direct breakdown voltage goes through a maximum, the positive impulse breakdown voltage is much lower over a considerable pressure range. This produces an impulse ratio as low as one half. At the same time, the positive direct voltage required for breakdown may be as high as six times that for nitrogen. In the region of this maximum, corona occurs at a voltage much lower than breakdown. The 60-cycle crest breakdown voltage practically coincides with the positive direct breakdown voltage."
"ONE INTERESTING RESULT of the application of information theory to electrical measurements is that design practice should change in some particulars to keep pace with application needs. This applies with particular force to the span of measurement which, in many instances, is some normal value plus or minus the expected variations in the voltage, current or power in the circuit. In contrast to this need, the span of most electric instruments traditionally starts at zero and extends to some value in excess of the anticipated maximum. The accuracy and visual resolution of measurement may be increased by scale designs which transfer the little-used lower portions of the scale range to the estimated range of operating values."
"SOME of the activities of the International Geophysical Year (IGY), as reflected in the program carried out by the United States, have been reported as they occurred throughout the official 18-month period in which the IGY scientific community made its reports to the U.S. National Academy of Sciences. The magnitude of the world-wide effort can be visualized when one sees a listing of the number of principal stations in each activity classified by latitude zone and degree of geographical coverage."
"“The award will be made to a teacher of electrical engineering based upon his teaching experience, his ability to inspire students to higher achievements and capability, contributions to the teaching of electrical engineering in text books and in writings on engineering education, active participation in the work of the professional and educational societies, and contributions to teaching and the profession through research, engineering achievements, and technical papers.”"
"The AIEE Medal in Electrical Engineering Education was presented to Dr. J.F. Calvert (F '45) head of the department of electrical engineering at the University of Pittsburgh, PA, USA. The presentation and acceptance addresses made at the ceremony for presentation of the AIEE Medal in Electrical Engineering Education held during the AIEE Winter General Meeting, New York, NY, USA (Feb. 1-6, 1959) are given. The award is made to a teacher of electrical engineering based upon his teaching experience, his ability to inspire students to higher achievements and capability, contributions to the teaching of electrical engineering in text books and in writings on engineering education, active participation in the work of the professional and educational societies, and contributions to teaching and the profession through research, engineering achievements, and technical papers."
"GREATNESS often comes in humble packages. A week ago the friendly voice of today's award recipient came to me over the phone from Pittsburgh, urging that I be modest in this tribute. This set off a chain of questions in my mind — what is greatness?"
"AS ALWAYS, Pres. Bronwell is unusually generous. To gainsay him would be rude; to agree would be immodest if not somewhat hypocritical. But, I can thank him and do so most sincerely."
"Students in the United States do not enter the university at as high a level of education as do their Soviet counterparts, nor do they graduate with the same degree of technical background, five USSR engineering educators said on January 30 at Northeastern University."
"The Catherwood Foundation has announced that the Philip Sporn Fellowship of $2,500 per annum for graduate work at The Ohio State University in the field of Electric Generation and Distribution will be available again this coming year, 1959–60. The payments are applied first to tuition expense, and the remainder is paid directly to the recipient of the fellowship. Tuition is $90 per quarter and out-of-state fees for nonresidents of Ohio are waived. The only requirement necessary to qualify for this fellowship is that the applicant must be a citizen of the United States."
"A grant of $1.25 million from the Boettcher Foundation has been made to the University of Denver to finance the start of construction on a Science-Engineering-Research Center on its University Park campus."
"The world's largest military closed-circuit educational television system was placed in operation on February 6 by the U. S. Army Signal School, Fort Monmouth, N.J."
"Engineers' salaries are going up an average of 61&1/2;% a year and the median salary of engineers in industry. Government, and education in 1958 ranged from $6,125 annually for engineers with one year of experience to $11,000 for those with 20 years experience, according to the third in a study series “Professional Income of Engineers,” prepared by Engineers Joint Council (EJC)."
"AKRON, OHIO, the Rubber Capitol of the World, will be the site of the AIEE East Central District No. 11 Meeting, April 22–24, 1959, at the Hotel Sheraton. The Rubber and Plastics Subcommittee will hold its 11th Annual Technical Conference in conjunction with the District Meeting. General theme of the meeting is “Electricity — Major Tool of Industry.”"
"Textile Industry Conference∗ Heart of Atlanta Motel Atlanta, Ga. April 2–3, 1959"
"THE AIEE Empire District Meeting will be held at the Hotel Syracuse, Syracuse, N. Y. on Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday, April 29, 30, and May 1, 1959. The theme of this meeting will be “New Horizons in Power and Industry.”"
"THE AIEE Winter General Meeting, held in New York, N. Y., February 1–6, 1959, broke all previous attendance records and featured the largest number of technical sessions ever held at an Institute meeting. The facilities of three hotels — Sheraton (headquarters), McAlpin, and the Governor Clinton were utilized. Total attendance of members and guests reached 6,545, which exceeded the previous high of 5,340 set at the Winter General Meeting in 1958. There were 607 papers read at 140 technical sessions."
"ON THE LAST DAY of the 1959 Winter General Meeting, the Board of Directors held its customary midyear meeting. The agenda was, like the whole Winter Meeting program, heavy with items postponed because of the cancellation of the Fall General Meeting, in October 1958. The Board met last in August 1958 at the Pacific General Meeting in Sacramento, Calif. Attendance was 100%, plus several newly nominated Vice-Presidents who were available and interested in starting their indoctrination. The agenda covered many important routine matters characteristic of all Board meetings. Several actions, however, have special significance for all members."
"THE HOTEL STATLER in New York City was the scene of an all-day meeting of AIEE Section Representatives and Member-Gifts Chairmen held February 3, 1959, during the Winter General Meeting of the Institute."
"WITH A VIEW toward providing background and information and assisting technical committee chairmen in their operational functions, the Forum of Technical Committee Chairmen held during the Winter General Meeting was devoted to a panel of four arranged talks. Led by AIEE President L. F. Hickernell, the first talk outlined improvements in technical operations; the second dealt with how to use Technical Operations Department (TOD) headquarters' services; the third with the importance of meeting deadline dates; and the fourth with how to improve the effectiveness of oral presentations and the conduct of technical sessions."
"THE ANNUAL Eta Kappa Nu Recognition Award Dinner was held in the Hotel Governor Clinton, New York, N. Y., February 2, 1959. The bowl commemorating the award to the outstanding young electrical engineer for 1958 was presented to Dr. M. R. Currie by President Larry Dwon of Eta Kappa Nu. T h e citation of honorable mention was presented to Dr. D. A. Buck."
"THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS of the AIEE, at a meeting held in Buffalo, N. Y., on June 27, 1958, unanimously elected Luigi Emanueli∗ (F '56), general manager of Pirelli Societa per Azioni, Milan, Italy, an Honorary Member of the Institute. For the presentation of the award, a local committee was set up at the request of the President of AIEE consisting of he following Italian members of the AIEE: Prof. Agostino Dalla Verde, chairman; Giuseppe Palandri, secretary; Prof. Arnaldo Maria Angelini; Franco Bianchi di Castelbianco; Franco Castelli; Prof. Mario Mainardis; Edilio Pautrie; Prof. Emilio Santuari; Prof. Marco Semenza; and Francesco Tedeschi."
"A LISTING of the papers presented at the 1959 Winter General Meeting of the Institute, February 1–6, New York, N. Y., follows. Copies of numbered papers only are available to members for 40¢ each and to nonmembers for 80¢ each. Send order and remittance to: AIEE Order Department, 33 W. 39th St., New York 18, N. Y. Papers marked CP∗ have not been printed by the Institute."
"At its meeting held February 2, 1959, the AIEE Nominating Committee selected the following official nominees for election to Institute offices for terms beginning August 1, 1959."
"Finalization of the technical papers program for Middle Eastern District Meeting in Baltimore, Md., May 19–21, discloses that authors will represent not only this country but foreign nations as well. Through special arrangement, a two-part paper on power distribution will be presented from Paris, France."
"ULTRASCOPE, a new electron tube that is expected to be exceptionally helpful in medical and industrial research was demonstrated recently in New York City at a special showing."
"A COMPACT, realistic and economical closed-circuit television system, for the practice of one of the most vital phases of flight — the making of visual take-offs and landings — was demonstrated recently by the Curtiss-Wright Corporation at its Electronics Division, Carlstadt, N. J."
"A DESIGN refinement in particle accelerators whereby the ion beam energy can be stepped up as much as four times to increase the utility of such machines in basic nuclear research was described recently by Dr. R. J. Van de Graaff, Massachusetts Institute of Technology."
"A FURTHER STRIDE in mechanization of time-consuming clerical routines of business and Government was announced recently by the Western Electric Company at a demonstration of a new invention designed for use with telephone company Dataphone service. Dataphone service provides for the transmission of data over regular telephone connections. Thus, this new device, which has not yet been named, will provide multiple access, unlimited by distance, to the “electronic brains” of modern, high-speed computers."
"Experimental publication of a scientific journal exclusively in microform — a general term referring to various methods of microfacsimile presentation including microfilm, Microcards, Microprint, microfiches, etc. — is being conducted for the next 3 years by the American Institute of Biological Sciences (AIBS), Washington, D.C."
"A new method for delineating the domain structure at the surfaces of ferroelectric crystals was described recently by G. L. Pearson and W. L. Feldman of Bell Telephone Laboratories. It has been used to delineate domain structures in great detail on a wide variety of crystals in which domains have never been observed before, according to a paper presented at the American Physcial Society meeting in Chicago, Ill."
"A 20-pound package of medical instruments that will measure the physiological condition of man in space, was shown recently. The new medical electronic system was developed by the Vibro-Ceramics Division, Gulton Industries, Inc., Metuchen, N.J."
"Is there the possibility that some time from now a good portion of the earth's population will be living elsewhere in the universe? “Yes,” says Dr. A. R. Kantrowitz, director of AVCO Research Laboratories. “Migrations have always been a result of people running away from something, not toward something and you don't have to look far today to see the pitchfork.” He referred to the potential power of nuclear energy which he said “needs the vastness of interplanetary space” to make a situation we can live with. If space migration is a possibility of the not-to-distant future, then what of the more distant future asked another panelist. “Will there be a back-to-earth movement?”"
"INSTITUTE members and subscribers are invited to contribute to these columns expressions of opinion dealing with published articles, technical papers, or other subjects of general professional interest. While endeavoring to publish as many letters as possible, Electrical Engineering reserves the right to publish them in whole or in part or to reject them entirely. Statements in letters are expressly understood to be made by the writers. Publication here in no wise constitutes endorsement or recognition by the AIEE. All letters submitted for publication should be typewritten, double-spaced, not carbon copies. Any illustrations should be submitted in duplicate, one copy an inked drawing without lettering, the other lettered. Captions should be supplied for all illustrations."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Designed for high accuracy and resolution indication, Model 176 permanently records weight, strain, temperature, pressure, and other variables which can be measured by sensitive bridge-type transducers. The unit gives continuous monitoring and permanent periodic recording of the variable in printed tape form at rates up to two readings per second. Controls are provided for run and calibration selection. Gilmore Industries, Inc., 13015 Woodland Ave., Cleveland 20, Ohio."
"An unusual turbine-condenser arrangement was developed by the Westinghouse Electric Corp., Box 2278, Pittsburgh 30, Pa., because basement space limitations in an existing plant made it desirable that the condensers be located on the turbine operating floor level of the Crawford Avenue Station of the Commonwealth Edison Co. Instead of exhausting steam to the condenser in the conventional manner from the bottom of the turbine casing, the steam exhausts through two openings in the turbine casing located above the horizontal joint and on both sides of the longitudinal center-line of the unit. Engineers used a plastic model to determine the optimum arrangement of structural members in the low-pressure turbine casing."
"A pocket-size down-to-earth glossary of astronautical terms has been published to guide laymen through the lexicographic labyrinth of space science. Dr. W. J. O'Donnell, chief engineer for aircraft and missile development at Republic Aviation Corp., points out in a foreword that in the 88 years since Jules Verne wrote his around-the-world classic some 28,000 words have been added to the average dictionary. Republic Aviation Corp., Conklin St., Farmingdale, L. I., N. Y."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Three types of spurious signals, generated by microwave transmitters are discussed: splatter, harmonic radiation and anharmonic radiation. The interference potentials and measurement problems of these types of radiation are discussed. Possible corrective measures in the form of receiver and transmitter filters are presented."
"Through-channel and cross channel insertion losses of a new type of multiple-circuit feedthrough-capacitors, comprising ferrite walls and multiple ceramic-tubes, have been calculated to aid in determining means for optimizing in design the characteristics in the VHF-UHF range. Units designed on the basis of the analytical results are shown to have considerable advantages over earlier feedthrough units in their economic feasibility and improved characteristics."
"The paper describes a method for designing a quasi-peak detector for given charge and discharge time constants, assuming that the rectifying element has a linear forward characteristic. Some constants, useful in relating charge time and the physical parameters of the circuit, are computed for a wide range of charge to discharge time constant ratios. Special attention is paid to such circuits with standard charge to discharge ratios as used in noise meters."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"A study is made of coding and decoding systems for a continuous channel with an additive gaussian noise and subject to an average power limitation at the transmitter. Upper and lower bounds are found for the error probability in decoding with optimal codes and decoding systems. These bounds are close together for signaling rates near channel capacity and also for signaling rates near zero, but diverge between. Curves exhibiting these bounds are given."
"A study has been made of the Nernst effect and the variation of thermoelectric power with magnetic field for single-crystal samples of n-type germanium of various orientations and impurity concentrations, at fields up to 18,000 gauss and temperatures from 275° to 60°K and below. Except at the highest temperatures, both effects arise predominantly from that part of the thermoelectric power which is due to phonon drag. All observations can be quantitatively accounted for by theory. They yield information about the dependence of the relaxation times for phonon-phonon scattering on the frequency of the phonons, and establish with some certainty the conclusion that four-phonon collisions are much less important than three-phonon collisions in the pertinent range of temperatures and phonon frequencies. A uxiliary investigations have shown that the quantization of electron orbits in a magnetic field has only a small effect on transport properties when the cyclotron level spacing is less than thermal energy. The mean free path of electrons is shown to be energy-independent, as acoustic-scattering theory predicts. The absolute mobility can be predicted to within 10 per cent or better from data on the fractional changes of resistance with stress and magnetic field. A more detailed summary of the conclusions and implications of the present work is given in Section IX."
"A study has been carried out of the stability of silicon surfaces when they are provided with a chemically bound solid-solid interface. Stable surfaces have been obtained with the system silicon-silicon dioxide when the oxide is thermally grown. This latter system has been studied in some detail. In this paper the following phases of our investigation are presented: (i) some aspects of the thermal oxidation process and properties of the oxide; (ii) the electronic properties of the resulting silicon-silicon dioxide interface; (iii) the application of the process to devices and resulting device characteristics."
"An analysis of transistor blocking oscillators is presented which differs significantly from previous approaches in that the nonlinear dependence of collector current and base voltage upon base current is considered. First, the nonlinear differential equations governing circuit performance are derived considering the effects of alpha cutoff, collector capacitance and leakage and magnetizing inductance. The relative importance of the various terms in this equation during transition, relaxation and recovery intervals is discussed from a physical viewpoint. Analog and digital computer solutions of the nonlinear differential equation yield pulse responses which give excellent agreement with experimental results for carious signals, transistor characteristics and values of passive. circuit elements. The paper concludes with a design example in which the analysis is confirmed by experiment."
"A wealth of devices which depend on the Hall effect for their operation have been proposed in the last decade. This paper gives the results of a survey of these devices. Original work in this field is included in those sections which describe the circulator, one-piece gyrator, switch, frequency spectrum analyzer, phase discriminator and digital-to-analog encoder. Semiconductor materials are discussed in terms of what type of material is most desirable and how currently available materials limit the usefulness of Hall effect devices."
"One of the attributes of telephone service which is of importance to a telephone user is the loudness with which he hears the voice of a distant talker. Related to this loudness is an objective measurement of “received volume.” This paper represents the results of subjective tests made to determine a relationship between received volume and the satisfaction of telephone listeners. The results are shown as statistical distributions of listeners' opinion, which may be combined with estimated distributions of received volume in the telephone plant to give “grade of service.” Grade of service objectives have been stated as 95 per cent of connections rated “Good”, 5 per cent “Fair” and a negligible percentage “Poor.” Increased use of the more efficient 500-type telephone sets, and planned improvements in the circuits which interconnect them, will make it possible to meet these objectives."
"A method is described for transmitting digitalized video signals to reduce channel capacity front that needed for standard PCM. This method takes advantage of the inability of the human eye to notice the exact amplitude and shape of short brightness transients. The transmitted information consists of the amplitudes and times of occurrence of the “edge” points of video signals. These selected samples are coarsely quantized if they belong to high-frequency regions, and the receiver then interpolates straight lines between the samples. The system was simulated on the IBM 704 computer. The processed pictures and obtained channel-capacity savings are presented."
"The equilibrium delay distribution is found for a single-server queueing system with Poisson input, random service and constant holding time. Curves are presented for various occupancy levels, and these are compared with their queued-service constant-holding-time and random-service exponential-holding-time counterparts."
"In the development of solderless wrapped connections for telephone central office applications, the general reliability objective has been that the connections should remain mechanically secure and electrically stable during manufacture, shipment and installation and for 40 years thereafter in actual service. Destructive mechanical tests have been used to evaluate the mechanical properties of the connections. Combinations of elevated temperatures and mechanical disturbances have been used to accelerate the aging processes that tend to cause electrical instability. The results of such tests have provided considerable assurance that properly designed and properly made solderless wrapped connections will perform satisfactorily for 40 years in central office service."
"A new communication system concept which is an important step toward an all-digital telecommunication plant is discussed. A research model, called ESSEX (Experimental Solid State Exchange), which combines remote line, concentration, time-separation switching and PCM transmission is introduced to demonstrate the concept. The model, which uses solid state devices, works at the speed of a full-size system."
"This paper gives a theoretical treatment of several properties which describe certain variable-length binary encodings of the sort which could be used for the storage or transmission of information. Some of these, such as the prefix and finite delay properties, deal with the time delay with which circuits can be built to decipher the encodings. The self-synchronizing property deals with the ability of the deciphering circuits to get in phase automatically with the enciphering circuits. Exhaustive encodings have the property that all possible sequences of binary digits can occur as messages. Alphabetical-order encodings are those for which the alphabetical order of the letters is preserved as the numerical order of the binary codes, and would be of possible value for sorting of data or consultation of files or dictionaries. Various theorems are proved about the relationships between these properties, and also about their relationship to the average number of binary digits used to encode each letter of the original message."
"A class of codes capable of correcting multiple errors is described. Some of these codes can be implemented with considerably less hardware than was needed for previous multiple error-correcting codes. A general method is shown for constructing a code of redundancy 1/b that will correct error bursts of Kb or fewer digits (K and b integers). The logical design of the encoder and decoder, as well as the, guard space requirement of good digits between bursts of errors, is described."
"A binary-decision program is a program consisting of a string of two-address conditional transfer instructions. The paper shows the relationship between switching circuits and binary-decision programs and gives a set of simple rules by which one can transform binary-decision programs to switching circuits. It then shows that, in regard to the computation of switching functions, binary-decision programming representation is superior to the usual Boolean representation."
"Broadband very-low-noise microwave amplification can be obtained from solid state maser action in a propagating microwave structure. Such a traveling-wave maser produces unilateral amplification with a high degree of gain stability. The theory of the traveling-wave maser is developed and used to compare the gain, bandwidth and gain stability of the traveling-wave maser with that of the cavity maser. The general requirements for traveling-wave maser slow-wave structures are discussed. Theoretical analysis and experimental results are presented for the comb-in-wareguide slow-wave structure. A traveling-wave maser consisting of a ruby-loaded comb structure was tested. A gain of 23 db at 6 kmc with a bandwidth of 25 mc was obtained. Further performance characteristics of this amplifier and one using gadolinium ethyl sulfate are given. Experimental verification of the low noise temperature of solid state masers was obtained."
"The three-level excitation method for solid state masers, including some background material on paramagnetic resonance, is reviewed. With respect to the experimental application of the maser material, two cases can be distinguished, In the first, maser action is based mainly on a favorable relaxation time ratio in signal and idler transitions. It is shown that the relaxation time ratio can be changed artificially by a doping technique. Experimental evidence is presented for two such doping techniques, one self-doping, the other impurity doping. In the second case, maser action is based primarily on a favorable frequency ratio of signal and idler transitions. Maser experiments using this approach are described. In addition, excitation of unidirectional gain and attenuation by circular polarization is discussed. Properties of practical isolator materials are surveyed; they include high-concentration paramagnetic and polycryslolline ferrimagnetic materials."
"The number of telephone circuits carried by a submarine cable system can he doubled by using the normal gaps in speech to interpolate additional conversations. TASI is a high-speed transmission and switching system that assigns a talker to a channel as soon as he starts to talk and disconnects him when he pauses, if someone else needs the channel. Switching from channel to channel may occur many times during a typical call, but the effect on transmission quality is negligible because the switching time is fast compared with the syllabic rate."
"The flying spot store is a versatile and efficient semipermanent information storage system developed for use in the electronic telephone switching system. Because of the form of the store, many variables enter into system design. In this paper the factors which control speed, capacity, number of channels, physical size and probability of error in readout are discussed. It is shown that these factors are related to the intended application for the store, to the form of the store and to device parameters. A number of scaling operations which involve exchanges between system parameters such as speed and capacity or between system and device parameters are given."
"The flying spot store is a semipermanent binary information storage system in which a cathode ray tube display is imaged on photographic emulsion by parallel optical channels. One section of the lens system provides the cathode ray tube with spot-positioning information for a closed-loop servo; the remainder of the channels are used for storage of the desired information. This paper discusses some of the optical and photographic problems to be considered in the construction of a flying spot store."
"This paper describes the cathode ray tube beam-positioning servo system essential to the accurate and reliable microsecond access to the photographic information in the flying spot store. The characteristics of both the basic servo loop and its components are discussed and several variations of the basic scheme are compared in relation to the system requirements."
"This paper covers the design of access circuitry for a barrier grid tube temporary memory. The circuitry converts a 14-bit binary address into the analog deflection voltage necessary to deflect the electron beam in the barrier grid tube to a specific geometrical storage area defined by the address. A special feedback circuit and raster reference tube deflected in parallel with the barrier grid tube control the size and centering of the array of storage spots. Novel methods of measurement were developed to certify the accuracy of the deflection system. The system meets the requirements of high speed, accuracy, stability and reliability."
"The verification problem is concerned with the construction on a computer of a logical program which satisfies all the design specifications prescribed for an experimental switching system and with the process of putting calls through the computer simulation to evaluate the system's logical structure."
"The effect on transmission properties of certain nonuniformities in laminated transmission lines has been calculated by a perturbation method. Particular cases hare been calculated, including the effect of varying radius of curvature in a cylindrical Clogston line, the effect of systematic variation in effective dielectric constant and the effect of random variation in layer thickness where the nonuniformities are known only through statistical properties. In one Clogston line where measurements of nonuniformity have been made the method predicts a transmission impairment in substantial agreement with observations."
"With the aid of two special machines, a 276-foot laminated conductor was assembled by hand around a 7/8-inch conducting core. The laminations consisted of 100 concentric layers of 1/4-mil aluminum foil separated by 99 polystyrene cylindrical insulators, each 1.35 mils thick. After fabrication, the cable was shielded by a wrap of 10-mil aluminum foil. The Clogston 2 dominant mode was propagated. Measurements were made of the mode pattern and the attenuation as a function of frequency up to 25 mc. Cavity-resonator and insertion-loss measurements were in approximate agreement. Measured attenuations exceeded the theoretical values for a uniform. Clogston 2 line in the ratio of 2 to 1 for frequencies above 10 me, but were in agreement with theoretical valves for a line showing a systematic lack of uniformity of the laminae. The 276-foot cable was cut into shorter lengths. Measured attenuation-frequency characteristics were proportional to length of cable. As a by-product, successful methods were evolved both for cutting and joining laminated conductors."
"The short are develops an instability when certain critical conditions of power input to the are are not satisfied. In this unstable condition the are is momentarily extinguished, a molten filament of metal is drawn between the electrodes and this may permanently bridge the electrodes. Semi-empirical expressions have been derived which predict at what time in the life of an are it becomes unstable. These expressions give a simple explanation of some of the erosion characteristics of relay contacts. In addition, the analysis is useful in determining the optimum current waveform for percussion welding, where a stable are is desirable."
"Charts and formulas are presented from which bivariate normal probabilities may be computed. Formulas involving the bivariate normal are given for the solution of a problem of handling errors in testing and measuring. These formulas include, in addition to previously published cases, two new cases. In one, the product is not necessarily centered relative to two-sided specification limits; in the other, one-sided specification limits are considered."
"Certain imperfections in alpha-quartz are found to introduce anelastic absorption at low temperatures in crystal resonators. For a shear wave of 5 mc, absorption peaks are observed at approximately 20° and 50°K in unirradiated samples, X-irradiation effects a lowering of the amplitude of the 50°K absorption, while a new absorption is introduced at 100°K. The results of acoustic absorption measurements on a number of selected samples of synthetic quartz resonators suggest that, whereas the 50°K absorption is attributable to excess oxygen, the 100°K defect involves aluminum which is present substitutionally in the crystal structure. X-irradiation-induced lowering of the resonant frequency of crystal resonators is clearly the result of a lowering of the elastic modulus associated with the 100°K anelastic absorption."
"This paper describes an extended series of experiments in beyond-the-horizon propagation on a 171-mile overland path using 460 and 4110 mc. The following aspects of the propagation were investigated: the effect of antenna size on signal level and fading characteristics, wavelength dependence, seasonal and diurnal effects, a new form of diversity reception, the bandwidth capability of the medium. Many of the experiments were directed toward a better understanding of the mechanism of propagation."
"In group-testing, a set of x units is taken from a total starting set of N units, and the x units (1 ≤ × ≤ N) are tested simultaneously as a group with one of two possible outcomes: either all x units are good or at least one defective unit is present (we don't know how many or which ones). Under this type of testing, the problem is to find the best integer x for the first test and to find a rule for choosing the best subsequent test-groups (which may depend on results already observed), in order to minimize the expected total number of group-tests required to classify each of the N units as good or defective. It is assumed that the N units can be treated like independent binomial chance variables with a common, known probability p of any one being defective; the case of unknown p and several generalizations of the problem are also considered."
"Development of the broadband horn reflector antenna has permitted the simultaneous radiation and reception of radio signals on different frequencies in the three common-carrier bands in which the Bell System has developed radio relay systems. A necessary adjunct to the antenna is a network to combine or separate the common carrier bands and also to combine or separate the two polarizations of any one band. The particular form of the network that is described was designed to meet strict system requirements on impedance match, insertion loss and cross-coupling between ports."
"A basic theorem is derived for RC networks containing active elements. It is shown that no more than one active element, embedded in a passive RC network, is needed to realize any driving-point function. Sufficiency of only one active element is shown by developing a synthesis method. A synthesis technique for n-port passive RC networks is developed in order to establish the sufficiency proof of the basic theorem. A more practical method of realizing driving-point functions, using active RC networks, termed the “cascade” method, is also presented. This method is applied to the design of a tenth-order Tchebycheff parameter filter."
"Scattering coefficients for a junction of helix waveguide and copper pipe are calculated. Fields exterior to the helix in the helix waveguide are neglected, but no other approximations are made."
"Methods are described for performing comparisons of fast binary numbers. These techniques have proved useful in the positioning of cathode ray tube beams in a photographic memory. A binary address is compared with a digital indication of the present position in circuitry called digital servo logic. The output of the servo logic is an analog indication of the positional error. Logics are described for obtaining sign only, sign plus magnitude and sign plus approximate magnitude."
"Higher-order space-charge waves on solid cylindrical electron beams produced by shielded or nearly shielded guns have only azimuthal periodicity, as in hollow beams. Because of beam rotation, they are members of a broad class of space-charge waves which can travel faster than the beams themselves, either forwards or backwards. The properties of such waves for the beam in a drift tube and in a concentric sheath helix are derived from a slow-wave, small-signal analysis and the appropriate boundary equations. Experimental observations of their interaction with harmonic fields of a helix, as well as of their role in noise propagation, tend to confirm the results of these computations."
"Substantial technical and economic benefits are obtainable by fitting a visual communication system to a specific application. Some of the considerations involved in such adaptation are discussed in this paper. An experimental system to demonstrate the specific adaptation to the problem of signature verification in a savings bank is described. It is shown that satisfactory images can be transmitted over a 5-kilocycle sound program circuit in 5 seconds. This result is obtained by reducing both the area scanned by the transmitter and the resolution of the reproduction to the minimum required for this application."
"The Stieltjes integral is used to develop a rigorous derivation of the z transform. Sufficient properties of the transformation are included to form a reasonably complete basis far the operational solution of constant coefficient, linear, finite difference equations."
"H. S. Ronne, Technical Information Supervisor, now has editorial responsibility for the Bell System Technical Journal, in addition to his other responsibilities. The former Editor, W. D. Bulloeh, has trnnsferred to the bublic Relations Department of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company."
"Logical schemes for realizing high-speed digital comparators are derived by Boolean algebra methods. Requirements for speed and precision place serious restrictions on the switching circuits. In particular, the precision requirement makes direct subtraction by the use of analog devices undesirable; the speed requirement dictates that any carry structure should propagate from the most significant digit toward the least significant digits. Such schemes hare obvious advantages when only an approximate magnitude is desired. Changing numbers in binary code introduces the common transition problem due to multiple digit changes; this problem is avoided by use of the Gray code. Circuits satisfying the synthesis requirements and giving the sign and exact magnitude of the difference are derived first. These schemes are then modified and simplified to give the sign and approximate magnitude. Circuits giving only the sign of the difference are also derived."
"Investigations of radio propagation at 35 and 150 mc into large city buildings have disclosed that, on the average, a loss in the order of 20 to 25 db may be encountered on the first floor. This loss, which represents the reduction from the median field in the city streets at the same distance from the transmitter, is known as building loss. Losses were found to be slightly smaller and more uniform at 150 mc than at 35 mc. Losses also were found to be appreciably less on higher floors in a building. Methods of using this information for engineering radio systems to serve people in buildings are described. Some sample problems demonstrate that, with equal receiver performance, the effective coverage range in buildings for a 150-mc system will be greater than that for a 35-mc system."
"A group of N trunks serves calls arriving in a renewal process, and lost calls are cleared. The number, N(k), of trunks found busy by the kth arriving customer is studied as a Markov process imbedded in a (usually) non-Markov process N(t), the number of trunks busy at t. Results of C. Palm and F. Pollaczek on the distribution of N(k) are generalized, and a study is made of bounds for, and approximations to, the probability of loss. The probability of loss is studied as a functional of the interarrival distribution function, and certain extremal properties are proven. Formulas for the mean of N(k) and for the covariance function are given, together with equilibrium curves for the probobility of loss, for the mean and variance of N(k), and for the first four values of the covariance function. Some applications to switch counting are discussed."
"Gallium arsenide, one of the Group III-V intermetallic compounds, appears to be an excellent semiconductor for use in point-contact devices. This paper describes some recent work in which single-crystal gallium arsenide, with resistivity adjusted to fit the application, is used for point-contact rectifiers which operate efficiently as frequency converters at frequencies as high as 60 kmc, and for switching diodes which show no minority carrier storage effects for switching time of the order of 10−10 seconds. These devices will operate over a considerable range in temperature."
"The paramagnetic resonance properties of Cr+++ ions in Al2O3 (ruby) were investigated theoretically and experimentally in order to obtain information necessary for the application of this material as active material in a three-level solid-state maser (3LSSM). Numerically computed energy levels, together with their associated eigenvectors, are presented as a function of applied magnetic field for various orientations of the magnetic field with respect to the crystalline symmetry axis. A more detailed discussion is devoted to energy levels, eigenvectors and transition probabilities at angles O°, 54.74° and 90°, where certain simple relations and symmetries hold. Paramagnetic spectra for signal frequencies between 5 and 24 kmc are shown; agreement between computed and measured resonance fields is satisfactory."
"Paramagnetic resonance for the Cr+++ ion in emerald has been observed at X-band (8.2 to 12.4 kmc), K-band (18 to 26.5 kmc) and M-band (50 to 75 kmc). From spectra observed at these frequencies, the spectroscopic splitting factors g$$, g$$ and D have been determined. The large value of D observed suggests the possible use of emerald as an active material in relatively high microwave-frequency solid-state masers."
"The Laddic is a ladder-like structure cut out of a rectangular hysteresisloop ferrite. The sides of the ladder and all of the rungs are equal in minimum cross section so that all possible paths are flux-limited. The structure presents a large number of possible flux paths. By controlling the actual switching path through the structure any Boolean function of n variables ran be produced. A number of methods of operation are discussed, and design formulae and experimental results presented. One of the attractive features of this device is that the operating currents are not critical. Therefore, it can be operated at speeds limited essentially only by the current drives available. The output may be taken during the input variable phase or during a subsequent reset phase. Switching speeds of a few tenths of a microsecond and repetition rates of a few hundred kilocycles hare been achieved."
"Radio waves at 11 kmc are attenuated by rain. In order to derive rules for engineering radio relay systems at 11 kmc, a one-year experiment was conducted in a region of frequent heavy rainfall. The attenuation of paths 27 and 12 miles long was measured, together with rainfall at two-mile intervals along the paths. The instrumentation and the test results are described, and some implications related to systems engineering are pointed out."
"The voltage and current modulation of ideal cylindrical electron beams in Brillouin flow, as well as beams in zero magnetic field, are studied by means of Laplace transform. With a large-diameter beam of this class, suddenly accelerated from a temperature-limited cathode and without transverse velocities, the minimum noise figure of an amplifier is found to be smaller than it would be for a narrow, essentially one-dimensional (filament or sheet) beam, or for a confined-flow beam with the same diameter, longitudinal velocity and direct current. Certain space-charge wave solutions obtained in field analyses of beams from shielded diodes, which have never been detected experimentally, are found to be nonexistent in the sense that no phenomenon taking place in a vacuum tube excites them."
"A new experimental artificial larynx, which makes use of transistors and miniaturized components to provide a voice for those who have lost the use of their vocal cords by surgical removal or paralysis, is described. The larynx operates by introducing a substitute for the sound of the vocal cords into the pharyngeal cavity by means of a vibrating driver held against the throat. The acoustic principles of normal and artificial speech production that were followed in arriving at the new design are presented, along with descriptions of the transistor circuit and its operating characteristics."
"In binary pulse transmission by carrier amplitude or frequency modulation it is ordinarily desirable, both for efficient bandwidth utilization and for improved performance under adverse noise conditions, to use bandpass channels of the minimum practicable bandwidth, as determined by considerations of intersymbol interference and filter design. It is shown that intersymbol interference can be avoided in binary pulse transmission by FM without the need for a wider channel band than in double-sideband AM, for equal pulse transmission rates. Explicit general expressions are derived for the appropriate shaping of the bandpass channel and for the shapes of received pulses, for cases in which rectangular binary pulses are transmitted by FM, without premodulation or postdetection pulse shaping by low-pass filters. Illustrative comparisons are made of binary pulse transmission by AM and FM for two special cases of general interest in communication theory and pulse-system design. The more general case of partial pulse shaping by premodulation and postdetection low-pass filters is also considered. The performance of FM and AM systems in the presence of noise depends on the division of channel shaping between transmitting and receiving filters. The optimum division with FM and AM is determined for random noise, and comparisons are made of signal-to-noise ratios for optimized FM and AM systems. It is shown that there is a single universal relation between error probability and signal-to-noise ratio, applying to an infinite universe of optimized baseband systems and optimized AM systems with ideal synchronous detection, and that this relation is the same as for baseband transmission over an idealized flat channel of minimum bandwidth. The analysis indicates that, with binary FM and appropriate postdetection low-pass filters, it is possible in principle to realize an improvement in signal-to-noise ratio over bipolar double-sideband AM with synchronous detection (phase reversal), for equal channel bandwidths, average signal power and pulse transmission rates, although this may not be feasible with practicable filters."
"Analysis is made of all the propagating modes of a vanishingly small rectangular waveguide partially filled with transversely magnetized ferrite. Each of these modes is shown to propagate in only one directum and to tend to be lossy. Use of these properties can be made in the design of a novel non-resonance isolator. All but one of the propagating modes vary in amplitude along the dc magnetic field. Yet they can apparently be excited experimentally at a boundary by an incident mode, with none of the modes having any variation along the dc field. Theoretical considerations indicate that finite conductivity in the waveguide walls may be responsible for this coupling. The unidirectional properties of these modes suggest the possibility of building purely reactive isolators, but these can be shown nonexistent from general energy considerations. Experiments are described that show that nature resolves this “paradox” by absorbing power, even in low-loss ferrite, rather than reflecting it. Some possible explanations of this behavior are set forth."
"The art of rectangular tube bending is analyzed, with particular attention being given to lube wall thickness variations. Effects of these variations on tool design are discussed, and methods and formulae for determination of wall distortions are presented."
"Two theorems are proved that characterize the matrices used to construct systematic error-correcting codes. A lower bound on the number of required check bits is derived, and it is shown that, in certain cases, this bound for systematic codes is identical with Plotkin's bound on the size of any error-correcting code. A linear program whose solutions correspond directly to a minimum-redundancy error-correcting code is derived. This linear program can be solved by an algorithm that is essentially the simplex method modified to produce integer solutions. Explicit solutions in closed form that specify the codes directly are derived for the cases when the specified code parameters satisfy certain restrictions. Several theorems are proved about minimum redundancy codes with related parameters."
"The nonlinear equations that represent the behavior of valve-controlled hydraulic servomechanisms are derived, and the assumptions necessary for their linearization are discussed. Solutions of the nonlinear equations obtained by analog computation are compared with solutions of the linear equations. Attention is directed to the influence of the hydraulic parameters on the nonlinear closed-loop system behavior."
"The major problem in the design of high-frequency transistor amplifiers is the interaction between the output and the input of the amplifier caused by the internal feedback of the transistor. This problem is illustrated and the two common design approaches to a solution of the problem are discussed. Nyquist's criterion of stability and Bode's feedback theory are then used to obtain an engineering evaluation of the relative merits of these two design approaches from a stability standpoint. The positive nature of the internal transistor feedback is established in this stability evaluation. Finally, Bode's feedback theory is used to consider the relative merits of some of the broad banding techniques used in transistor video amplifier design. The over-all analysis shows that many of the most practical and stable linear transistor amplifiers are very simple and can be built with a minimum of design effort."
"Underground conduits may be subjected to low-frequency dynamic loads caused primarily by the operation of mechanical tamping and pavement-breaking machines. These external loads will produce circumferential bending moments in the conduit wall. The magnitude of the bending moments has been determined by measurement of the circumferential fibre strains in thin-walled metal tubes subjected to the external dynamic forces transmitted through various soil media. Finally, the bending moments are expressed in terms of the the equivalent crushing strength."
"Technically, nothing of great importance was developed in the motion-picture industry during 1958.1 Probably the same thing can be said of television."
"A new type of studio vidicon camera has been tested on a closed-circuit microwave TV system. Equipment and techniques used for exchange of radar plotting information between Army and Air Force installations in Norfolk and Cape Charles, Va., are described."
"After discussion of the physical construction of the new studios, the acoustical treatment and placement of equipment for ease of operation are illustrated with drawings and photographs. Special attention is given to the equipment selected for the studio — the unique new Westrex RA-1581 optical and magnetic recorder and its associated transmission system, including double-speed optical transfer operation and other associated equipment; the new eight-position recording console; looping facilities; and the motor reversing and control system."
"Methods of recording, editing and mixing live dialogue, sound effects and music in industrial film productions vary greatly. One method is outlined and the conversion from optical sound recording to magnetic sound, with a minimum of new equipment is described. Parallel techniques are followed using 35mm soundtracks for both 16mm and 35mm photography."
"The SMPTE Board of Governors approved this Recommended Practice at its February 13, 1959, meeting. There have been no changes since the trial publication in the September 1958 Journal. However, Appendix A, Technical Information on Lamps Used for Testing and Reporting Data, was omitted from the version in the September issue since it was incomplete; it is published here so as to complete the Recommended Practice. Reprints will be available shortly from Society headquarters."
"The needs for instructional films and how these needs are being met can be thought of as one operation. The factors in this operation include sound, picture, motion, color, cost, ease of preparation, use and maintenance, as well as other less important considerations. Instructional film research provides the guidance for evaluating the relative importance of these factors and points to films and equipment design considerations."
"To meet educational requirements, film production must branch out in two main directions away from present practice. Short, specific films which can be used more flexibly by the teacher and student are needed as well as those which can be used to carry a complete lesson; and the use of such films requires new distribution procedures and new projection equipment."
"In today's competitive world, with nations going all-out to strengthen their educational systems, the responsibilities of the classroom film producer take on a new and vital importance. He must choose subjects carefully to fit the curriculum, use competent subject-matter advisers, and create scripts that will provide genuine learning experiences. He must be sure of technical production quality, and if desirable and practical, he should pretest his product before final release."
"Four, 45-min sound filmstrips on atomic bonding, produced by the authors, were tested with 120 graduate engineering students. Half were taught by the regular lecture and half by the filmstrips. An examination and a questionnaire indicated that there was no significant difference in learning between the two groups. Most of the students were willing to accept the sound filmstrips as a teacher substitute."
"The lack of conveniently available sources of supply of good educational films and of teacher experience in their utilization restricts the benefits to be derived from such teaching materials. Research has established what important contributions to classroom teaching can result from the proper use of suitable educational films. It is hoped that the data and experience derived from the experimental program described in this paper will help to bring about a much wider use of this valuable teaching tool."
"The audio-visual technique of communication is today one of the fastest growing segments of the motion-picture industry. The current annual nontheatrical-film investment is more than a quarter-billion dollars. Dividing the industry into six principal fields, the paper presents such factors as expenditures; number of productions and types of production units; projector ownership; styles and types of films; and distribution of films and size of audiences. The largest of the six categories considered — business and industry — including both large and small companies, applies a variety of visual-communication tools to advertising and sales, industrial and public relations, and research and development. Although limited as yet, the circulation of business films abroad is steadily increasing."
"The producers of both entertainment and commercial films are considered: the former must face the challenge of the home TV set and must create significant films for the motion-picture theater; and the commercial producer must make the client's problem his own problem and give to it not only his specialized abilities but also a lively and profound interest."
"There are some special requirements and techniques related to producing sponsored documentary films. The documentary is different from the story-film not only in preparation required but also in basic approach."
"The advent of high-quality 16mm cameras and magnetic-optical projectors, coupled with the new, faster film emulsions, provides increased opportunities for business and industry to use low-cost, internally produced training films. As an illustration of such possibilities, the author describes the production and use of films in connection with his company's Employee Suggestion System."
"The varied subject matter of educational TV programming dictates a flexible approach to filming. The techniques differ from those used in commercial TV filming in that they must meet individual situations as they arise, with no sacrifice in quality. Further, the budget for an educational program is frequently less than one-twentieth that of a commercially filmed program of the same length produced by comparable techniques. The Staff Production Unit of the University of Southern California, Department of Cinema, has produced four series, totaling 44 half-hour programs for educational TV. Some of the unique production problems presented by each of these series are discussed, together with their solutions."
"The technical aspects of production of a network television class are analyzed, and an accounting of costs is presented. Problems of distribution are discussed. Ways of utilizing special properties of television in presenting courses at a college level are emphasized. Implications of Continental Classroom for special group education, for general adult education, and an analysis of the role of network television in education are presented."
"Analytical and empirical tests have been made to determine optimum noise levels of photographic projectors. It is shown that to achieve 96% “intelligibility” (per cent of sentences understood) the projector should have an articulation index (a quantity related complexly to noise and frequency) greater than 0.4. The index is simple to determine when the projector noise spectrum parallels the spectrum for ordinary speech, i.e., when it peaks near 500 cycles/sec. Measurement of the index is more difficult when the spectra are nonparallel."
"Soundtracks in nontheatrical films range in complexity from a simple narration with, possibly, introductory title music and concluding music, to an intricate combination of narration, dialogue, music and sound effects. All soundtracks have in common the fact that their component elements must be edited separately, mounted on reels running synchronously with an edited work print made from the film's negative or original, and finally are re-recorded (mixed) to be combined into a single track. Before the introduction of magnetic tape and the adoption of magnetic film, all sound tracks consisted of positive film, and the final mixing was done direct to negative. Compared with today's tape techniques the process was more time consuming, frequently less satisfactory technically and certainly more expensive."
"An opaque projector capable of producing intricate and elaborate effects has been designed. Emphasis in the design is on simplicity and ease of operation. The main differences between the new projector and conventional ones is in respect to stage position (card projection position), and means of securing lap dissolve."
"When 35mm color negative films are used repeatedly for release printing, they may become badly scratched. These scratched negatives give 16mm release prints of inferior quality in an optical reduction printing operation. The effects of scratches on the negative can be eliminated by applying a thin layer of liquid to the support side of the film just before printing. A Depue optical printer was modified by adding a roller applicator and liquid reservoir and by using an undercut pressure pad at the gate. This method is simpler and less expensive than liquid immersion printing and produces prints of high quality."
"To maintain good quality of artificially illuminated scenes recorded by means of high-speed photography requires an adequate amount of illumination with several sources of light properly positioned. Bulk and expense of light sources for high-speed photography have tended to restrict the number used for any given scene, with resulting inferior picture quality. The United States Steel Corporation has developed an improved and less expensive multiple-source illumination system which provides sufficient illumination to produce good-quality color photographs at speeds up to 4000 pictures/sec. Some of the considerations necessary for determining correct exposure parameters are listed and an example is presented for determining a color exposure."
"The functions of the three components of the soundtrack—voice, music, sound effects—are delineated in Part I. In Part II the editing of the components is considered in detail. Preparation of the work print and sound tracks for re-recording is described in Part III. The re-recording (mix) is discussed in Part IV. — Parts II, III and IV will appear in subsequent, though not necessarily consecutive, issues of the Journal. Publication of this paper as a booklet will be completed soon."
"Design and operation of an endless-loop $\\frac{1}{4}$-in. magnetic-tape magazine with uniform low-friction tape motion and a five-channel selective program repeater are described. Features include high-speed solenoid actuation for instantaneously cued stop-start operation, and transistorized audio and control circuitry. Applications are discussed."
"A 16mm projector with a special aperture plate is used as a projection gage for checking various print characteristics while viewing the projected film. This method enables checking of such factors as soundtrack centering and modulation of variable-area tracks; shrinkage and variations in width of film stock; blackness and freedom from scratches of septums on each side of the soundtrack; placement and opacity of the printed frame around the picture image; and percentage jump-and-weave in the projected picture, including the amount added by printing operations."
"A flexible lighting system has been designed to meet the needs of an active television studio. Two groups of rails provide flexibility in locating lights. Lighting is controlled from a production control console. Although the system was designed to meet the needs of a particular studio, in principle it can be adapted to a studio of any size."
"The low-voltage, remotely controlled preset programming system for load switching, developed by CBS Television, promises to be the solution to the demands by color television and by the more complex black-and-white shows for more and higher-capacity dimmer units, and eliminates the physical reloading of dimmer circuits during broadcasts. It offers a considerable reduction in capital investment for production lighting facilities in future installations."
"After outlining the background of the standards conversion problem in European TV, the design and performance of the British Broadcasting Corp. standards converter are described. This converter comprises a high-quality display of the incoming (625- or 819-line) picture which is presented to a TV camera using a 4${1\\over2}$-in. image-orthicon pickup tube (P812) on the British standard of 405 lines."
"The line and field rate standards of one country have often to be converted to different standards of another country in exchanging TV programs. In the course of video-tape recording research, certain techniques have been developed for storing various intervals of TV information. The possibilities for conversion between standards for time-delay distribution are outlined."
"Film moving with uniform velocity is scanned by a series of displaced rasters in such sequence that the system is applicable to 50- or 60-cycles/sec conditions. Three photomultipliers provide color analysis of the image, element by element, and directly produce a video-frequency signal. A particular equipment is described. The choice of Red, Green, Blue (RGB) coordinates is examined, and arrangements are discussed to minimize color flicker, to provide uniform field illumination and to offer the most accurate picture reproduction."
"A projection system for monochrome television was developed in the Philips Eindhoven Laboratory more than 10 years ago. Further work resulted in the development of apparatus for the projection of colored television pictures onto a screen. Projectors have been built giving pictures 22cm by 29 cm and 35 cm by 46 cm at m highlight luminance of 200 candles/sq m (63 mL), and 2.25 m by 3 m at a highlight luminance of 20 candles/sq m (6.3 mL). The projectors were demonstrated before the Color Television Commission of the CCIR in 1955 and 1956."
"Opened in 1949 as a museum of photography and cinematography, George Eastman House contains a priceless collection of motion-picture apparatus and a library of more than seven million feet of film which is stored in specially constructed vaults. Some of its rare and historically significant cameras and projectors are described."
"Four photographic systems—the shadowgraph, Toepler's schlieren, ballistic synchro, and the interferometer—are available for recording shock waves produced by aerodynamic configurations on track sleds traveling at supersonic velocities. A study has been undertaken at the Supersonic Naval Ordnance Research Track, China Lake, to determine which of these techniques are applicable to track-sled testing programs. A brief description of each system is given along with some preliminary test results obtained from the ballistic synchro system."
"A slit camera has been designed to permit reliable velocity measurements in low-pressure chambers too small for ballistic pendulums. At two or more viewing ports along a horizontal trajectory, the shadow of the projectile is cast upon a vertical slit. A reduced image of each slit is focused on a film transported in a standard high-speed camera. Timing marks also are put on the film by means of a flashing strobe light. These, together with the measured displacement between projectile images, permit computation of the velocity. The system appears to be the most satisfactory means of attaining accurate hypervelocity measurements. It has been operated with excellent results over a variety of base lengths and gun sizes."
"Development of motion-picture cameras capable of framing rates as high as 17/msec has made possible the scientific and technical investigations of transient phenomena of less than one-millisecond duration. Synchronization of such phenomena with the very high framing speed now possible is not easily accomplished with conventional timing apparatus, however, because of the uncertainty inherent in camera speed characteristics. An improved system has been developed at the Naval Research Laboratory in which the picture frames are counted electronically, and the event to be photographed is triggered after a preset count has been reached, independent of the time required to reach a given point on the length of film. Precise location of the desired data with respect to the film length often eliminates the necessity of processing an entire 100-ft roll of film, thus greatly expediting the completion of records. All components in this system are commercially available at a total cost comparable with conventional timing apparatus."
"Many problems are encountered in the use of instrumentation photography under field conditions. These problems include damage to equipment caused by temperature changes, humidity, depredations of animals and insects, and other environmental problems. Methods of meeting such problems and protecting cameras and equipment are discussed."
"Conventional methods of photographic processing and the functional elements of processing machines such as drives, recirculation systems and agitation devices are reviewed, particularly as related to motion-picture film. Note is taken of techniques, evolved in related fields, that represent a wide departure from these practices both in simplicity and in speed. Also discussed are some photographic processing methods which have had only limited commercial application but which offer comparable possibilities of increased speed and simplicity."
"The factors which are significant in the photography of cathode-ray oscilloscope traces were studied with a photometer built especially for this purpose and by means of photographic tests. The photometric tests made with the special photometer showed that the initial decay of the P-11 phosphor is a logarithmic function of time and that recurrent traces on the same area of the screen do not all produce the same intensity of phosphorescence. For such multiple tracing, the intensity of phosphorescence was found to increase progressively for the first several traces; and, in some cases, the intensity of phosphorescence was found to decrease after the initial increase. Photographic tests made on four films with an oscilloscope camera, used in conjunction with the oscilloscope photometer, and with two sensitometers showed that the relative sensitivities of the films for oscilloscope photography can be evaluated fairly reliably by a sensitometric test when the sensitometer light source is filtered to produce a spectral energy distribution equal to the spectral energy distribution of the phosphorescent screen and if the exposure time is 250 μsec or less."
"The effect known as beam-landing error or “porthole” in vidicon cameras is eliminated through the use of a suitable coil configuration. The axial positions of the coils are chosen so that the beam electrons approach the target with only an axial component of velocity at all times. Exceptional signal uniformity independent of signal-electrode voltage and focus field strength is then obtained with a vidicon having a uniform photoconductor. A particular coil design and the results obtained with it are discussed."
"A process for making 2 × 2-in. slides is described. This process, which employs Polaroid film, is fast and economical. Step-by-step instructions are given."
"The process of mechanical translation involves four main steps: (1) coding the source language for input data; (2) producing a word-for-word translation; (3) translation of sentences and phrases; (4) output of complete translation in target language. Machine translation is possible for foreign versions of motion pictures. Development of an automatic print reader presents a challenging problem in the field of motion-picture and television engineering."
"Four basic approaches to the resolution of transfer-ambiguity are reviewed: (1) preparation of microglossaries; (2) formulation of linguistic operations to effect structural parallelism between the languages involved; (3) establishment of categories based on semantic functioning; (4) establishment of idiom classes. Structural analysis involved in a French-English translation is examined in detail."
"The thesaurus method of machine translation is designed to provide a means of obtaining the best translation of a word in a given context by defining every word in terms of the context in which it can occur. These definitions can be represented by elements of a lattice. By operations on the elements representing the words of a text, it is possible in principle to derive a new set of elements (a) which together carry the same information as the input set; and (b) each of which corresponds to some word in the given target language. Work is proceeding on practical methods of programming such procedures using (a) punched-card equipment and (V digital computers."
"There is a need for automatic character recognition in business data processing systems and a particular method of reading has been chosen. A description of the method also points out the facilities for overcoming the defects of ordinary typescript."
"Various systems for ultra-fast photographic shutters are described. It is shown that shutter image converter tubes have the advantage of light gain and the adjustable frame rate and frame spacing. A shutter tube is described which is capable of delivering 16 frames on the viewing screen, utilizing electrostatic focusing and electromagnetic deflection. This tube employs an Sb-Cs (0) photo-cathode formed by external Sb-evaporation, a cascaded focusing system, deflection yokes which are assembled around the neck of the tube, a lumped PDA system, and a yellow-green modified P20 phosphor for the viewing screen. The tube is capable of exposure times in the range of 1 mμsec."
"As a preliminary to the establishment of standards for the density range of television films, a uniform method of density measurement is presented. The equipment and its use, accuracy of the system and simplifications of it for rapid surveys are discussed."
"A 16mm subtractive reversal film with incorporated color couplers, designed to provide high-quality originals for the production of release prints, is described. From these camera originals, release prints onto Eastman Reversal Color Print Film, Type 5269, or release prints by way of Eastman Color Internegative Film, Type 7270, printed onto Eastman Color Print Film, Type 7382, can be produced. The film structure, sensitometric characteristics, exposure requirements, suggested filters and printing behavior of the new film are described."
"In this two-speed drive, adapted to a Bell & Howell Printer, Model D, two motors running continuously drive the fields of two electric clutches in the same direction, one at approximately twice the speed of the other. The armatures of the clutches are on the same shaft and are splined to the hub of a third pulley that drives the printer. An electrical circuit triggered by a cuing system activates one clutch or the other to change the speed of the printer within a short enough interval so that there is no loss in projection quality of the print. Such a speed changer permits optimum productivity on a printer using negatives containing scenes of widely varying densities."
"Film-end detectors and film brakes are used on high-speed motion-picture film-processing machines to sense the end of a film roll automatically and hold the film end while a new roll is being spliced onto it. A pneumatically operated film-end detector and film brake have been developed which offer advantages over previous designs."
"A continuous writing framing camera, the Beckman & Whitley Model 192, has been designed to retain the advantages of existing framing cameras while incorporating other characteristics to increase the scope and extent of usefulness. The new cameras have a longer writing time and a greater number of frames than earlier models and do not require synchronization with the event being studied. Reasons for construction are explained and design parameters and performance specifications are given."
"During the course of Samuel B. Grimson's investigations of the line-screen and the color reseau methods of color motion-picture photography, the production of perfectly sharp and even reproductions of the color screen elements in successive frames of the negative film presented a major problem. This paper describes a mechanism, adaptable to the Mitchell camera, by which the desired results are obtained. Although this mechanism was designed primarily for use in Grimson's color processes, it is also useful in other applications where maximum sharpness is important."
"The unsteadiness of cameras can be evaluated by a double-exposure technique using a “step-wedge” shaped object for the first target and a simple bar for the second. The results are obtained in the form of individual, whole values. Hence, simple counting methods are used in analyzing the data rather than complicated measuring equipment. Consequently there is less fatigue for the observer. The action of some cameras is described, and their errors are analyzed by the use of this technique."
"The advantages to be gained in outside broadcast presentation by the use of camera lenses of variable focal length have been well established with the aid of lenses designed for that purpose. If similar advantages are to be provided under the different operating conditions encountered in the studio or in industrial television, new types of lenses with more extreme optical characteristics are necessary. The solution of these new optical problems yields a zoom lens ideally suited for a wide variety of television applications."
"Editorial Note: A paper found among the effects of Leon Gaumont after his death in 1946 describes his early attempts to sychronize sound and image and discusses apparatus which he invented, such as the Chronophonograph and the Elgephone. As a tribute to this inventor, whose name is on the Honor Roll of the Society, and for the interest it may hold for contemporary scientists and inventors, the Historical and Museum Committee has contributed the following translation. Special assistance was given by L. J. J. Didiee of Paris in connection with the obtaining and preparing of this paper."
"A technical report of the third meeting of ISO/TC 36, Cinematography, which was held at Harrogate, England, June 16–20, 1958. This report summarizes the history of international standardization and the deliberations and conclusions of the meeting affecting international exchange of motion-picture films and television programs. A total of 33 resolutions were adopted by TC 36. Thirteen interim working groups were constituted by ISO/TC 36 to continue the work begun at Harrogate as well as to consider new items of international concern and interest."
"Variable-area sound recording on film was originally thought to be immune from processing variations. Although the effects of exposure and density upon cross-modulation distortion have long since been recognized and well documented, the significance of developing time is generally overlooked. It is shown that the common practice of adjusting developing time to compensate for exposure errors is not satisfactory. Large errors can never be fully compensated, and small errors are shown to require overcompensation if the optimal print density is to remain unchanged. The need for further study of the effect of changes in the developer itself upon cross-modulation is indicated."
"Serious drifts in exposure have been encountered when making long re-recorded negatives for release printing. These drifts are especially noticeable when using the 35/32mm method where the total recording time may be as high as one hour. Possible causes of this problem are discussed and a method of minimizing it is described."
"The background of large-area negative photography and processing for use at Technicolor Corp. is reviewed, together with techniques for producing anamorphosed and de-anamorphosed types of prints from such negatives."
"The development of wider screens and larger camera apertures has brought about a need for increased depth of field. A practical comparison is made of lens focal lengths commonly used. Depths of field are shown in relation to focal distances and f-stops. An accurately calibrated camera aperture which pivots on its vertical center is proposed as one means of increasing the depth of field across the picture area."
"A method of photographing the early phases of atomic explosions by the use of the Faraday shutter is described. A 10-ft focal length Newtonian telescope was used to give a large image with the camera at approximately 7 miles from the explosion. Two photographs of very early phases of atomic explosions in metal shelters are shown. A 1-μsec Rapatronic (Faraday) shutter was triggered when the light intensity reached a value where a photograph would be exposed."
"Carbon-are motion-picture projection lamps are useful in the production of extremely high flux densities of radiant energy. The application of these to carbon-arc image furnaces has been described. They are also valuable in many studies requiring high concentrations of radiant energy in any portion of the spectrum from the arc. Comparisons are made of the distribution of irradiance and illuminance across the image with three different types of optical systems. The spectral distribution of irradiance at the center of the image is also given."
"A lightweight sound-on-film recording system has been made of a portable power supply and a miniature transistor amplifier mounted directly on the side of an Auricon 16mm camera. The power supply is housed in a standard camera gadget bag and supplies both a-c power to the camera drive motor and d-c power to the amplifier and exposure lamp. Battery replacement is kept to a minimum through the use of nickel-cadmium cells and a built-in charger."
"A recording monitor which produces a high-quality TV picture, and a new 16mm fast pulldown camera which is used to record the picture are described, and performance data are presented."
"The new 35mm camera film, Eastman Color Negative Film, Type 5250, has been designed to replace Eastman Color Negative Film, Type 5248. The new film has a similar structure but is twice as fast as the older film. This permits exposures under more difficult lighting conditions, or with greater depth of field or more economy in set lighting. Processing and printing procedures are similar to those for Type 5248. Minor differences in the characteristics of the two films which may affect picture quality are discussed."
"Factors which influence the gray-scale characteristics of a vidicon telecine chain are investigated and a standard characteristic is developed by deciding upon the optimum adjustment of each of these factors. Test material is developed to set up and maintain this standard characteristic which, subseqently, is used for evaluating the suitability of film material for television reproduction"
"A system for making 16mm film for television broadcasting is called Teledexicon. It is based on the establishment and maintenance of standardized characteristics for telecine reproduction, the film process and the printing operation. It permits relatively inexperienced personnel to achieve high accuracy in negative exposure and predictable TV gray scale from release prints. Live TV studio output and telecine film output may be made to have matched gray-scale characteristics. Exposure is determined by measuring scene element luminances with a spot photometer and relating it to telecine video voltage with simple rotary calculators. Teledexicon permits accurate control and prediction of gray scale, lighting key and mood while shooting is in progress and before the film is processed. Objective measuring techniques are used throughout."
"The requirements are outlined for a negative-positive laboratory process to obtain predictable waveforms at the output of a calibrated telecine camera chain for measured luminance of scene elements. By utilizing the inherent reproducibility of the photographic process, a constant density and density difference system may be established utilizing conventional processing and printing equipment and materials. Techniques are described for controlling the output of processing machines of the Houston Fearless type, particularly applicable to smaller laboratories associated with television broadcasting agencies. Statistical analysis of sensitometric control strips is employed to evaluate processing reproducibility. Chemical analysis of bromide content provides sufficient information to maintain image-forming conditions, when the replenishers for negative and positive developers have the same composition as the starting solutions (before the addition of bromide) and are added directly to processing machine tanks. Tolerances that may be readily achieved in the practical operation of a system of this type are given."
"Industrial vidicon cameras, master antenna distribution system and standard home receivers are used in a community TV station which links an elementary school, settlement house, city health center and public housing project in New York City. The instructional programs are handled by two people: the technician, who presets cameras and lights and controls video-audio; and the teacher, who operates four cameras and his charge of her own props during telecasts."
"The Geo. W, Colburn Laboratory acts up originals in A & B rolls to incorporate fades, lap dissolves and invisible splices; tuning is both for color balance and exposure balance; originals are cued for automatic printer operation; and originals are treated to minimize the formation of Newton's rings."
"Printing procedures and control techniques using an additive printer in the production of 16mm color positive prints from 16mm reversal color film are described. Matrix algebra is used in determining a basic exposure for each emulsion type and number used. These matrices can be used for initial printer calibration as well as for routine printer control."
"Processing control of 16mm color internegative and color positive is necessary to produce a high-quality product. This paper deals with methods of photographic and chemical processing production controls and their coordination with motion-picture printing controls."
"The making of 16mm color prints from color original reversal by the internegative system is more difficult and exacting than making reversal prints. Black-and-white equipment must be extensively modified, or new color equipment must be built. This paper describes in detail a new high-speed production printer for making positive prints from the internegative, and outlines problems involved in its design and construction."
"The internegative printer is a contact step printer for daylight operation. A mechanical dissolve shutter operates at two speeds, light changes are accomplished by the use of glass neutral-density filters. Color filters are introduced automatically to make color-balance changes in individual scenes. The color positive printer operates at 300 ft/min and handles both color internegative and negative sound rolls in one pass."
"Two Proposed brief amendments to the Society's Bylaws were published on p. 548 in the August 1959 Journal."
"An automatic loop printing system for 35mm motion-picture films in color and black-and-white has been developed. After a predetermined number of prints, the next negatives are brought into place automatically and printing is resumed after the splicing of the new sound and picture reels. Negative magazines are automatically adjusted for length during the printing and the replacing of the new films."
"The Re-recorder is a machine designed for small studio use and incorporates in one cabinet up to four magnetic reproduce units driven by a common motor. The units may be any combination for either 35, 17 1/2, 16mm or 1/4-in. perforated film, one of which may be equipped for magnetic recording and a second for optical reproduction. Transistorized amplifiers of new design have been incorporated."
"A compact table-mounted six- or eight-input, single-channel re-recording mixer has been designed for small studio application. Transistorized modular subassemblies provide each mixer circuit with gain control, program and midrange equalizers; an additional transistorized module includes an overall gain control and test oscillator. Complete mixer console facilities have been incorporated. Highly reliable operation and professional quality performance comparable to that required in major studios has been achieved."
"A new dual magnetic reproducer has been designed with an unusual arrangement of components. Two complete magnetic sound film reproducers are contained in one standard rack, enabling a substantial saving of floor space. A new film-drive mechanism used in the dual-dubbing reproducer is also described."
"Small and especially compact incandescent light sources are frequently needed when recording high-speed phenomena in crowded spaces. Self-contained reflector lamps have been designed considerably smaller than previous types and with an improved beam pattern. They require no auxiliary equipment and types are available for use on aircraft voltages."
"A new light source for high-speed motion-picture photography is a flood flashlamp which contains magnesium foil and has the size and ease of handling of a #3 photo-flash bulb. Exposure guide numbers for camera speeds of 400 to 8000 frames/sec and practical examples of photographic procedures are given."
"The properties of the sealed-beam types of tungsten-filament lamps are utilized in a luminaire, the characteristics of which include: substantially higher peak beam candlepower at narrower beam spreads than have been reported for tungsten-filament spotlights of comparable wattage; oval or approximately rectangular beam patterns of rather precise angular dimensions by the use of refractive plates on or in front of the lamps; a step type of dimming control that does not alter the color temperature of the composite beam. These features and the methods of obtaining them are discussed."
"New staging devices have been designed and techniques developed to overcome limitations on creative efforts, imposed by the physical boundaries of studio walls and grids. Among these, VideoScene, an electronic camera system designed to blend live action with miniature settings, is described and the new equipment and techniques are illustrated."
"A system has been designed and constructional arrangements made for a special bus to contain a Videotape Recorder, two camera chains, signal generating equipment, director's console, monitoring facilities and self-contained power supply. System performance and accessory requirements are considered in detail. Various concepts in the use of the Videotape Cruiser are discussed, especially with regard to the advertising and motion-picture industries."
"The SMPTE Video-Tape Recording Committee has been working since its initial meeting in June 1958 on items requiring industry standardization in order to insure interchangeability of recorded video tapes. A list of pertinent items was prepared and tasks assigned by the Chairman. The list includes tape dimensions, tape reels, tape track dimensions; audio, control and cue track standards; monochrome and color signal characteristics; tape leaders; standard tapes; and tape splicing. This report covers the current status of the Committee's work."
"At each Semiannual Convention the Society's President customarily addresses the Society on matters accomplished, pending and projected. The President also introduces the Convention's opening luncheon speaker — see the next page. Also there are observations about the planning and programing of the Convention at hand; President Simmons' remarks related to the 86th Convention have been embodied in that story in the latter portion of this Journal. His general address is excerpted below."
"From the introduction by SMPTE President Simmons at the Convention Get-Together Luncheon, October 5, 1959: Our speaker might be introduced from either of two successful careers. He has served the photographic industry for over thirty years and is a Vice-President and a member of the Board of Directors of Eastman Kodak Co. He is responsible for Eastman's motion-picture film business throughout the world and supervises Eastman's general business in Europe. In these capacities he has become acquainted with the problems and personalities of the world's motion-picture and TV industries. — He can also be introduced as a man highly distinguished in the field of aviation, beginning with service as a combat pilot in France in World War I. His interest in aviation took him into service at the start of World War II, and his distinguished military career terminated with his service as Chief of Staff of the U.S. Strategic Air Force in Europe where he attained the rank of Major General. Since the War he has held various appointive posts in Washington including special assistant to the President, for aviation planning in 1956. From this came a report of long-range planning to meet the complex problems of using the air in the jet age, a report for which he was awarded the Collier Trophy by the National Aeronautic Association."
"Various methods of “insetting” or creating a composite of subject and background in television have been developed. Chroma-Key uses a highly saturated color background for live TV composites. Equipment now used by NBC is described."
"The video interconnection of separate studios and tape centers is accomplished with wideband channels similar to those supplied to broadcasters and closed-circuit users. The art has progressed to a point where pictures can be transmitted for thousands of miles, when local and intercity facilities are combined. The local cable facilities are supplemented with portable microwave systems to care for temporary and occasional demands for service."
"Vidicon and image-orthicon types of television camera lenses have been designed to utilize only those “non-browning” optical glasses especially developed to maintain their transparency in gamma-radiation fields. The optical and mechanical characteristics of these lenses as well as the performance test data are described."
"The depths of field and of focus contribute independently to the size of the circle of confusion in the viewing plane. An integrated analysis permits treating both a three-dimensional object space and a film surface that does not conform to the curvature of the image field, or is not smooth. The investigation is restricted to a symmetric lens in order to avoid complications concerning the size and location of entrance and exit pupils. In a design problem the following quantities are assumed to be specified: (1) the depths of field and of focus, as defined by the nature of the object surface and tolerances in the film plane; (2) the overall magnification between the object and the ultimate image for viewing purposes, as well as the acceptable size of the circle of confusion in the final viewing plane; and (3) the aperture setting, as indicated by the conditions of exposure. For these conditions the camera magnification is uniquely determined — provided that the f/number exceeds a value of m(Do + dp‘)/2c“. In this equation m is the overall magnification, Do is the depth of the object field, dp’ is the accuracy of the lens setting, and c” is the size of the circle of confusion in the viewing plane. In the development, it is assumed that all effects are additive in enlarging the circle of confusion, and also occur at their maximum magnitudes. As a consequence, the worst possible case is analyzed, so that the design is handled conservatively."
"In an attempt to standardize Military Service requirements for motion-picture projector noise levels, training films at various projector noise levels were shown to students. The same films were also shown over a closed-circuit TV system to equivalent groups. A comparison of the results obtained with respect to “learning” is presented. Tests were made before and after each presentation. It is shown that the projector is the superior training device, provided low noise levels are maintained."
"The standardized 16mm JAN Sound Projector was established by the Projection Equipment Committee under Standardization Working Group 402–40E of F.S.C. Group 67. The transition from three different projectors used by the Army, Navy and Air Force to a single projector was accompanied by design improvements for the new projector. Available conversions and accessories for this standardized projector are also described."
"The International Organization for Standardization (ISO), whose activities in the field of cinematography were described in the January 1959 Journal report, pp. 32-37, has recently adopted six Recommendations which are published here for the general information of the SMPTE membership. This now brings the total of ISO Recommendations adopted to thirteen. The first seven were published in the December 1957 SMPTE Journal."
"The sensitivities of various camera tubes are determined in terms of the illumination levels required for both standard and nonstandard television scanning rates. For convenience, these values are given in terms of equivalent ASA film exposure index values to facilitate the use of a common exposure meter to determine scene light or iris settings. — The effective rapidities of response of various camera tubes are also evaluated in terms of the ability to stop motion. This factor is evaluated both from the standpoint of deriving intelligence from the signal and from the standpoint of the esthetics of the picture, i.e., absence of negative image or “long-tail” carry-over of signal. The effects of overexposure or of underexposure on the speed of response of different camera tubes is also illustrated."
"The detective quantum efficiency of two RCA image orthicons (5820 and 6849) and one RCA vidicon (6326) is computed from unpublished signal, noise and resolution data generously supplied by the manufacturer. The concept of detective quantum efficiency used here is identical with the concept of quantum efficiency introduced by Rose in 1946, and is defined as the square of the ratio of the measured signal-to-noise ratio to the maximum possible signal-to-noise ratio under the same external conditions, where the maximum possible signal-to-noise ratio is set by the statistical fluctuations in the number of the photons in the background. The detective quantum efficiency Q is presented as a function of the wavelength of the photocathode radiation, of the irradiation of the cathode and of the line-number of the target. The maximum value of Q with respect to variation of the wavelength, irradiation and line-number is 2.65% for the 5820 and 4.35% for the 6849 image orthicons and only 0.084% for the 6326 vidicon."
"Thirty-six volunteer subjects, screened for normal visual acuity, viewed televised displays during a one-hour testing session. There were 232 displays; each consisted of four characters (letters and numbers) of a given size and contrast condition. The study design made it possible to compare visibility across: (1) six viewing distances, (2) three viewing angles, (3) three figure-background contrasts, (4) four character sizes and (5) three time-segments within the testing session. Results indicate that no visual fatigue occurred, that black-on-white and white-on-black contrasts produced about equal visibility, and that characters subtending 10 min of vertical visual angle could be perceived with almost complete accuracy."
"To meet the request of educators for a simple, moderately priced television film recorder, the Dage KR-11 has been designed using an especially modified single-system sound camera and a monitor with relatively uncomplicated circuits. Controls have been kept few in number, and a simple and reliable method for setting up the recorder has been developed. Single-system sound recording facilities have been incorporated. Several educational applications have been explored."
"The general layout of the Workshop, which was established in New York in 1954 by the J. Walter Thompson Co. to provide a testing-ground for commercial ideas, is given, and then the studio, control room, and editing room and their equipment are described. Maintenance equipment, power services and viewing facilities are outlined. Live and film television, both monochrome and color, sound and video recording, animation, stop-motion and other special effects, as well as experimental and developmental work, are among the activities of the Workshop."
"Solenoid-operated vane-type shutters in the printer control the red, green and blue beams split up from the white light by dichroic mirrors. The color light values and the fader-speed information are fed into the printer by a perforated tape, which also starts and stops the printer. Notches in, or aluminum patches on the film release the information prestored in a memory device to the light controls. Accessories and a sound printing head extend the flexibility of the printer."
"From the introduction by SMPTE President Norwood Simmons at the special session on instrumentation and high-speed photography, Miami Beach Convention, May 4, 1959: Our speaker, Major General John Bruce Medaris, is the Commanding General of the Army's Ordnance Missile Command. He directs all army ordnance programs in the rocket, guided and ballistic missiles, and outer space fields. He has seen combat in two World Wars, as an enlisted man and as a commanding officer. After World War II, he held various Army Ordnance posts and in November 1955 he was made Commanding General of the Army Ballistic Missile Agency, with responsibility for development and production of the Jupiter IRBM Missile System and further development of the Redstone Ballistic Missile System. In addition to these assignments, which he managed to successful completion, he was responsible for the launching of the earth satellite, Explorer I, on January 31, 1958. He assumed his present command, March 31, 1958. The command includes the Army Ballistic Missile Agency, the Army Rocket and Guided Missile Agency, Redstone Arsenal, and White Sands Missile Range."
"Rear-projection screens of low reflection reduce the effects of light on the screen and allow increase in the ambient light. Goniophotometric curves and setup of screen are given. Distribution, gain, reflection and resolution are discussed as factors. The physiological effects of increased ambient light are considered. The brightness of the picture should at least equal the level of the surrounding light to which the eye is adapted."
"A complete system is described which codes a standard video signal to match a narrower band channel and subsequently decodes the received signal for display on a standard TV monitor. The system transmits the low-frequency, or macro-contrast signal, in analog form. The location and amplitude of the edges are transmitted by a digital code. At the receiver the edge information is used to synthesize the highs content of the video, which is then added to the lows to reconstruct the original video signal. Bandwidth reduction is achieved by exploiting both statistical correlations and psychophysical phenomena. — Apparatus for the separation of low frequencies, detection of edges, quantization and binary digital coding of edge amplitude and synthetic reconstruction of highs is described. The digital coder for edge locations has been described elsewhere.1 Picture-tube photographs of the resulting pictures are shown. Factors affecting the degree of bandwidth reduction and the effect of variation of system parameters such as separation frequency and quantization levels are discussed."
"A study of television audio levels was recently undertaken by the CBS Television Network as a result of complaints from television viewers that some portions of television programs sound too loud. The findings of this study are presented and a new method of achieving balanced audio levels in broadcasting is described."
"The use in motion-picture film developing equipment of some of the plastics that have become available since World War II has minimized or eliminated corrosion and contamination problems. This paper outlines the advantages and disadvantages of some of these materials and reports on how they have been employed by laboratories in the Hollywood area. Among the equipment for which they have been found suitable are pipe, fittings and valves; tank linings and construction; and processing machine racks and rollers."
"Certain problems must be overcome to use successfully dimmers of the silicon-controlled rectifier type in TV studios. A specially designed dimmer has been developed and made available economically to allow a greater number of dimmers in a studio installation. This increases the need for more flexible preset systems. A new punch-card type of “automatic infinite preset” system is described. It can be arranged to control position, angle, focus and spectral quality of studio lights in addition to circuit selection and control of lighting intensity. Lighting layouts can use fewer units; and dimmers can be located on, or adjacent to, the lighting fixtures. Backgrounds of luminous color can be accurately controlled for frequent changes of color and brightness."
"Following the development of a practical system for monochrome television recording on magnetic tape, the logical direction for further refinement was toward a system capable of recording color. The successful development of such a system, in the form of a color conversion accessory which connects to the Ampex VR-1000 Videotape Recorder, is described here, with the operational theory of the accessory discussed fully."
"Unsatisfactory communication usually results when conventional telephone-type terminal facilities are employed in a multistation interphone conference connection because the anti-sidetone transformers used therein were not designed for this application. Superior interphone system performance can be achieved, however, if attention is given to television's special requirements. A transistorized interphone terminal unit has been developed to modernize most existing interphone conference systems to meet these requirements. The unit is also a useful component for new system designs."
"A self-normalling video jack which replaces the plug-normalling jacks currently employed in video systems has been developed by CBS Television Network Engineering. The jack, now in full-scale operation, makes normalling plugs and terminating plugs unnecessary, as self-contained switching contacts and terminating resistors perform these functions. The self-normalling jack and its application are discussed."
"A new device has been developed which makes possible startling new concepts in lighting. By radically reducing volume, weight and heat generated per kilowatt, without any sacrifice in electrical characteristics, it has become possible to package this semiconductor device as a portable plug-in module. Its advantages over present state of the art methods are demonstrated. In addition, these advantages make possible a new systems concept. The world's first broadcast application of the aforementioned is detailed as utilized by a new broadcasting center."
"The laboratory has been designed and is operated to give commercial-quality cine processing at the world's largest missile testing center. Films processed include Anscochrome 16, 35 and 70mm; Eastman Color Negative; and all commonly used black-and-white films. Many innovations in processing systems and equipment have been made for economy's sake, without compromising quality; and unusual features have been designed to meet the local environment problems."
"Certain design features of eleven film processors and auxiliary equipment recently installed at the Patrick Air Force Base Motion Picture Laboratory are discussed. The processors are of modular construction. Major changes in the processing schedule can be made by rearrangement of the modular tank units. The film-drive system, type of construction and materials selected for various components are described. The overall system includes a simplified liquid-level control system with a siphon break and chemical system, located on a separate floor, for preparation and handling of processing solutions."
"This paper is designed to inform members of the Society of the capabilities of students to actively function within the motion-picture field. The paper concerns the uniqueness, description and functions of a positive, black-and-white film processor built by University of Miami motion-picture students. The machine is capable of operating normally at 100 ft/min, and utilizes glass fiber, polyester resins and synthetic plastics throughout its construction. The processor is now in use for all University positive and soundtrack processing."
"A unique, portable, transistorized power inverter has been designed to drive one or more professional cameras and an associated sound-recording system. Operating from 24-v batteries with high overall efficiency and silent operation, it provides up to 200-w sine wave at 50 or 60 cps with additional power capacity for motor starting. A new approach has been made to problems of voltage and frequency stabilization and novel self-protection methods are incorporated."
"The combination of the curved screen used by several present-day motion-picture processes, the high angle of projection of many theaters and the low angle of view from the auditorium of these theaters to the screen results in a motion-picture presentation exhibiting a phenomenon termed “horizon sag.” An optical projection system has been designed to eliminate, or significantly reduce, the horizon sag as observed from the auditorium of the theater."
"A 16mm motion-picture projector developed for the Air Force is used for viewing and assessing film exposed in 16mm gun cameras. Features include local and remote control of 360° rotation of projected image, focusing, framing, forward and reverse, and single-frame projection. Film speeds are variable from 12 to 32 frames/-sec."
"When the National Defense Education Act of 1958 became law, many questions arose, not only questions of interpretation and administration, but speculations concerning its long-range effects and the implications of the trends in education implicit in the Act's provisions. One of the questions of interest to members of the Society was (and is): What does Title VII mean to the Society? On May 5, 1959, some questions were answered and others asked by Dr. C. Walter Stone, New Educational Media Branch, Dept. of Health, Education and Welfare, Office of Education, Washington, D.C., at the Society's Convention in Miami Beach where this paper (in a slightly longer version) was presented. At the beginning of his presentation, Dr. Stone said, “I believe that American education requires some direct and immediate assistance from the membership of SMPTE and from similar organizations.”"
"The Recommended Specifications consist of four sections. Specification Sections II, III and IV are complete purchase specifications. They cover alternate arrangements and performance requirements of speed-governing systems for internal combustion engine-generator units. These are printed as individual forms. T o gain the maximum benefit from these standards, particularly under normal conditions, it is recommended that the applicable section be included in full and as a part of the complete purchase specifications for the particular engine-generator unit. The Terminology, Section I, includes definitions and applications of terms and some explanatory comments. Pertinent portions of Section I, while not ordinarily transcribed in full, are made an integral part of each speed-governing specification as indicated in paragraphs 2 of Specification Sections II, III, and IV."
"Presents the title page of the proceedings record."
"Two chapters appear in this year's Digest under revised titles. The title of the “Ceramics” chapter has been changed to “Solid Inorganic Insulation”, and the title of the “Insulating Films” chapter has been expanded to “Insulating Films and Fibrous Materials.” The new titles more accurately describe the content of these chapters and do not reflect any change in coverage."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"Students of dielectrics are displaying increasing courage in attacking more and more complex insulating systems. This has resulted in increasing rapport between scientists and engineers; it has, furthermore, led to a broadening of the scientific base to include chemists, ceramists, biologists, mathematicians, and physicists while electrical engineers have been joined by mechanical and metallurgical ones. Publications report increasingly complex relationships between the electrical and mechanical properties of materials, the functional evaluation of systems and the characteristics of polycomponent insulants."
"The first volume of an annual series entitled Progress in Dielectrics edited by Birks and Schulman1 appeared this year. Although this review is primarily concerned with dielectric theory and properties of materials, attention is also given to new experimental measurement techniques. Molecular Science and Molecular Engineering by von Hippel2 includes general sections on “Dielectrics and Waves” and “Dielectric Materials and Applications” as well as review articles on a variety of other electric and magnetic effects on the molecular level. Electrical Engineering Materials by Dekker3 has chapters on “Dielectric Properties of Insulation in Static Fields” and “Behavior of Dielectrics in Alternating Fields”."
"The tables of dielectric constants, dipole moments, and dielectric relaxation times in this compilation are based upon references to the original literature, reported in Chemical Abstracts during the year 1959, and not already covered in these Tables in the Digest of Literature on Dielectrics. Virtually all the references were directly referred to in the original papers, since in the large majority of cases the abstract was deemed incomplete for the purposes of this compilation."
"There was no truly startling development in 1959, nor, fortunately, were there any serious polemics. The reaction field is still a hone of contention, and the Onsager cavity has come in for a good deal of examination. Szigeti's work in the Proceedings of the Royal Society on “Higher Order Terms in the Dielectric Constant of Ionic Crystals” is of considerable significance, and other workers in the same field who have been attempting to account for interaction effects will study this paper carefully."
"Readers of this chapter will notice that the sections on inorganic conduction and photoconduction are predominantly concerned with cadmium sulfide and silver halides. This is due not to any preference on the part of the authors, but to the importance that these substances are now assuming as ideal materials in which to investigate the properties of free carriers in insulators. Cadmium sulfide also has the advantage of being commercially important, and does not suffer from the disadvantage of the silver halides; namely a high ionic conductivity at room temperature."
"Studies of the current build-up as a function of time after the application of voltage continue to be most fruitful in elucidating breakdown mechanisms in gases. Loeb1, in a review article on formative time lags, emphasizes the differences between the initial threshold for onset of a current independent of the external supply of electrons (Townsend threshold) and later thresholds for transitions to various types of discharge governed largely by space charge distortion of the applied field. He suggests that future measurements should be concerned largely with the build-up of current in time and space as the discharge passes through the various transitions rather than with only the time to final, but unspecified, catastrophic breakdown. This attitude appears widespread and most of the papers on the subject this year have taken this approach."
"The literature for 1959 contributed extensive numerical data on piezoelectric crystals and ceramics. An interesting new group of strong ferroelectrics typified by lithium trihydrogen selenite was discovered, and very complicated and interesting ferroelectric properties were reported for thiourea."
"In this Chapter we have attempted to cover the literature dealing with magnetic materials. We use the work “magnetism” in the narrow sense of the spontaneous alignment of electron spins by interatomic forces. This definition includes the phenomena of ferromagnetism, ferrimagnetism, antiferromagnetism, “tweak” ferromagnetism, piezomagnetism, and other forms of magnetism for which special terms are not in general use. We have included also literature dealing with structure, preparation and nonmagnetic physical properties when these seemed closely related to magnetism. Among subjects not covered are paramagnets with low magnetic transition temperatures, geomagnetism and rock-magnetism."
"This chapter reviews the important publications on electrical insulation with regard to rubber, plastic, and paper-like materials for the year 1959. Because of the vast amount of information printed on this subject, it was necessary to be selective in the choice of publications to avoid repetition and references to purely commercial announcements."
"This chapter presents a review of the literature on unsupported insulating films as well as various fibrous materials such as paper and textiles. The period covered is 1959 but several papers published prior to this year, and not previously reviewed in this chapter, are also included."
"The engineering approach to Insulating Liquids continues to dominate the literary efforts of specialists in this field. Mineral oil remains the chief subject of their studies, and the deterioration of this liquid in service continues to be a puzzle whether considered from the viewpoint of oxidation, metal-ion or free radical kinetics."
"The fourth edition of Salmang's well-known Die Keramik-Physikalische und Chemische Grundlagen1 appeared with an enlarged chapter on dielectrics and insulators and with appended charts of some of the more important properties of ceramic dielectrics."
"In an article of two sections, Berberich1 reviews a decade of progress in the application of electrical insulation. This excellent and all too brief review covers materials as well as applications in power equipment, rotating machinery, transformers, capacitors and cables and includes 39 references. A more complete paper is given by Berberich2 covering progress in electrical insulation over three decades."
"The Recommended Specifications consist of four sections. Specification Sections II, III and IV are complete purchase specifications. They cover alternate arrangements and performance requirements of speed-governing systems for internal combustion engine-generator units. These are printed as individual forms. To gain the maximum benefit from these standards, particularly under normal conditions, it is recommended that the applicable section be included in full and as a part of the complete purchase specifications for the particular engine-generator unit. The Terminology, Section I, includes definitions and applications of terms and some explanatory comments. Pertinent portions of Section I, while not ordinarily transcribed in full, are made an integral part of each speed-governing specification as indicated in paragraphs 2 of Specification Sections II, III, and IV."
"This standard applies to all single or multi-pole alternating-current automatic circuit reclosers and automatic line sectionalizers for the nominal voltages from 1,500 to 23,000 volts. In order to simplify this standard where possible: The term \"recloser\" has been substituted for \"automatic circuit recloser.\" The term \"sectionalizer\" has been substituted for \"automatic line sectionalizer\"."
"The magnetic amplifier should be operated at its nominal rated conditions except for its control circuit quantities and output quantities."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"The following topics are dealt with: dielectric reference materials; liquid displacement test cell; dielectric constant; corona charge transfer measurement; capacitance bridge technique; cavity resonator dielectric measurements; dielectric strength; electric breakdown; polyethylene; induced conductivity; pre-irradiated insulating materials; aluminium solid electrolytic capacitors; loss factors; cellulose pulps; sintered alumina; high temperature dielectric properties; reconstituted micas; MK coated fabrics; high-temperature sheet insulation; thermal stability; polychlorotrifluoroethylene; electrical tracking resistance; electrical discharges; solid insulation; track resistant coatings; applied stress; polystyrene conductivity; low-viscosity cable oils; electrically stressed oils; oil aromatic content; insulating oil; accelerated oxidation tests; isomotive cells; particle separator; dielectric polarization; and electret behavior."
"Chemists have made contributions of two kinds to electrical insulation development. One is to the understanding of the relation between dielectric behavior and chemical structure, and the other, possibly less appreciated, to the development of ways of extending the service life of dielectrics."
"The Standards Group within the Dielectrics Section of the National Bureau of Standards has undertaken an investigation with the object of producing a set of Standard Specimens with well-defined dielectric constant and loss index. An important attribute of such a group of specimens is that their electrical properties should not be subject to unpredictable change as a function of environment or time. Furthermore, both high-loss and low-loss specimens are needed."
"The inherent high accuracy of the (1) liquid displacement test method for determining the dielectric constant of sheet insulating meterials is well established. However, there is a growing need to extend this method to a frequency range above the present maximum of 1 megacycle."
"The significance of corona discharges in insulation structures has been recognized for many years. This paper presents a refinement of an old technique for measuring corona, together with an extended interpretation of the results which should have utility in both laboratory and shop measurements of insulation structures."
"The aim of our research is to make a convenient and accurate resonant cavity dielectric measuring system for samples in the shape of a small rod or filament. The use of a circular TM010 mode for rod samples is well known but is not always so convenient because the sample changes the cavity frequency, which may necessitate re-matching of several parts of the system. This mode is, however, very useful at frequencies of the order of 1000 Mc, or when the rod is very small. We have increased the utility of this mode by giving a hole correction for the hole through which the sample is inserted."
"There is considerable interest in the effects of corona and, in particular, as to whether it can be measured accurately and its effects likewise correlated. It is obvious that it would not be useful to determine a level resulting in damage to a sample and not be able to measure a corresponding level within apparatus."
"A re-entrant resonant cavity was constructed for measuring the breakdown strength of dielectric samples at 630 mc/sec. The cavity was tunable by means of a choke plunger to accomodate various thicknesses and permittivities of dielectric. It was also pressure tight to allow pressurizing if necessary to avoid arcing or gas breakdown around the sample. This was an unnecessary precaution, however, since the shape of the electrodes and sample was effective in preventing such phenomena. The sample could be heated either with an electric hot plate applied to the end of the cavity or by inserting the end of the cavity in an electric furnace. No tests at high temperature were actually conducted however. The dielectric samples were discs about 1-1/2 inches in diameter and one sixteenth of an inch in thickness; with a 9/16 inch diameter spherical concavity in the center, leaving a thin section on the centerline of the order of five or ten thousandths of an inch. Hard glasslike substances can be prepared this way in optical laboratories by conventional techniques. Soft substances can be cut with a ball end milling cutter. Replaceable stainless steel balls obtained from bearing manufacturers were used for the spherical electrode; the flat electrode being a sheet of shim stock between the flat side of the dielectric sample and the cavity end plate. For measuring the cavity parameters a micrometer screw was provided in conjunction with a flat-ended rod so that accurately known airgaps could be obtained. For testing dielectrics a spring loaded rod with snap fingers for gripping the spherical electrode was employed."
"The electric strength of polyethylene has been reported as being 17 kv/mil at dc and 3300 megacycles (1), at room temperature. The measurements that were made at the microwave frequencies were carried out in a “dished in” conical shaped resonant cavity. The three-quarter wavelength TEM mode of the cavity was used. The one-half wavelength section was filled with air and the remaining quarter wavelength was filled with the dielectric sample. A special dielectric-imbedded feedloop had been designed to permit matching the cavity impedance to the 7/8\" coaxial transmission line. Tuning stubs in the air filled section were used to tune the cavity. Another feature of the cavity was the ease with which the electrode surfaces were renewed after each test (1)."
"All insulating materials show increased electrical conductivity under ionizing radiation. The magnitude of this induced conductivity at about 104 rads/hr has been measured for a variety of representative specimens of mica, fused silica, and polystyrene, and for two special materials of particular interest: boron nitride and Corning 1723 (radiation resistant) glass."
"The solid electrolytic capacitor structure (1) has been investigated for high purity aluminum utilizing both wire and porous anodes. The major problem with aluminum anodes is that a normal anodically formed aluminum oxide is extensively damaged during the high temperature decomposition (300-500°C) of aqueous solutions of manganese nitrate in the formation of manganese dioxide, the semiconductor cathode. A necessary process, to avoid this damage, is a preanodization water treatment of the cleaned aluminum surfaces which results in low reproducible dc leakages only if this treatment is carried out at temperatures above 70°C (Table I). The specificity of this process at these temperatures is in accord with the formation of a surface layer of a porous alumina monohydrate, boehmite (2,3). During the subsequent electrolytic oxidation of the aluminum, the dielectric anodic film is presumed to form at the metal surface underneath the boehmite layer. It is proposed the hydrated film protects the dielectric layer during pyrolysis by acting as a buffer between it and the deposited manganese dioxide with its associated pyrolysis products."
"Dielectric spectroscopy has been used to elucidate the essential structure of carnauba, montan and ouricuri waxes. By analysis of the dielectric constant and loss curves as determined over a broad range of temperature and frequency, it has been possible to establish the presence of permanent electric moments in the molecules and to determine that association through hydrogen bonding exists. Polar molecules may be roughly divided into two classes: amorphous and crystalline. In the former case the dielectric constant is seen to increase very slowly with temperature due to decreased viscosity and consequent ease of orientation of the molecules to an applied field. Above some temperature where the material is completely liquid, the dielectric constant decreases because of decreased density of polarizable molecules per unit volume and of the degree of orientation permitted as the thermal motion is increased. Maxima in the loss curves are caused by relaxation of polar groups and chain segments. Increased conductivity in the liquid accounts for rapid increase in the losses. A crystalline material, on the other hand, will show an abrupt rise in dielectric constant at the melting point. The waxes considered in the present study actually fall in an intermediate class which is crystalline but which has many properties like amorphous substances. In these substances, the molecules are capable of rotating in the solid state at temperatures well below the melting point without destroying the crystal structure."
"The electrical properties of papers made from woodpulp prepared by different processes are known to differ. These differences have been attributed to differences in the quantities of residual pentosans, cooking salts, lignin and hemi-celluloses, as well as to the degree of attrition to which the fibers have been subjected. The study reported here is concerned with the variations in electrical properties observed on sheets of paper made from different lengths of fiber taken from the same pulp. It is concerned furthermore with differences in the electrical properties of sheets of paper made from the same size fibers taken from different pulps."
"Available data on inorganic dielectrics indicate that Al2O3 and BN have better electrical properties than most other materials at high temperatures, even though measurements were made on samples of ordinary purity. It is also significant that improvements made in the quality of single crystal sapphire in recent years have resulted in increasingly better electrical properties. These facts prompted the investigation of highly purified Al2O3 and BN. This project involved not only the synthesis of these materials in as high purity as possible, but also their fabrication into a form suitable for making electrical measurements. It is with the latter process and how it affects the electrical properties that much of this paper is concerned. Electrical measurements, tan γ (60-05 cy/sec.), resistivity (500 V d-c), and dielectric constant were made at temperatures from 100° to 500°C. The specimens used for making these measurements were two-inch sintered discs, approximately .03 inch thick."
"This investigation was initiated to determine the possible improvement in high temperature dielectric properties of reconstituted mica which might be achieved by purification and modification techniques."
"A trend towards miniaturization of equipment and accompanying higher operating temperatures exists in many phases of the electrical industry today. This trend, especially when coupled with the many military applications requiring a high degree of thermal stability, has indicated a need for new high-temperature insulation components. Such a need has been further crystallized by the inadequacies of many presently used high-temperature insulations with respect to fabrication properties, solvent and oil resistance, and system compatibility. This situation has sparked considerable research activity aimed at the development of new heat-resistant materials with improved auxiliary properties."
"It has been shown that articles of simple shape that are fabricated from polychlorotrifluoroethylene are serviceable at 400°F for 6 months if no mechanical strength properties are required. Also, it has been shown that fabricating procedures that do not involve large mechanical forces, such as friction and shear, result in products of better heat resistance than fabricating techniques that do involve large forces. A detailed study of the effect and reduction of such forces should result in improving the high temperature operating characteristics of polychlorotrifluoroethylene. Finally, it has been suggested that the study of the degradation of polychlorotrifluoroethylene is complicated by the presence of more than one degradation mechanism under certain conditions."
"This summarizes a 4-year investigation of electrical surface-tracking properties of many types of synthetic polymers, including (1) thermoplastic dielectrics (for technical reference), (2) rigid casting resins and laminates for enclosed outdoor apparatus, (3) rubbery encapsulating compounds for outdoor components, with and without various fillers, mostly inorganic. Tracking under moist conditions was obtained with a salt-dust-and-fog test, and dry tracking was measured with the ASTM low-current arc-resistance test, D495."
"The behavior of an insulator when subjected to electrical discharges often determines whether it can be used in a particular electrical device. There are various tests available for evaluating the discharge resistance (arc resistance) of insulation but their results do not correlate very well with field behavior. A more reliable testing procedure is needed which also yields information on the breakdown mechanism occurring in insulation subjected to various conditions of discharge."
"Summary form only given. Surface carbon tracking of insulating members in electrical equipment is a problem which is receiving increased attention from both suppliers and users of electrical components. The principle emphasis towards the solution of this problem has been placed on the development of track resistant insulating materials which are capable of being formed by various techniques into solid track resistant insulating members. Considerable progress has been made along these lines, particularly in the field of polyester-glass laminates and polyester premix type materials. Some progress has been made in the development of track resistant materials utilizing resins other than polyester. There is, however, another facet to the problem of developing track resistant insulating members which has received relatively little attention to date. This approach involves the development of a track resistant coating material which can be applied to the surface of relatively poor track resistant insulators to protect these parts from carbon tracking. Track resistant coatings offer some advantages from both economic and utility standpoints. Cost savings may be realized by using less expensive substrate materials which may have relatively poor track resistance and protecting these materials from carbon tracking with a coating of a track resistant material. A track resistant coating can also permit rehabilitation of existing insulation which in many cases would have had to have been replaced. Track resistant coatings must also have those other desirable properties usually associated with all good coating materials including good adhesion, high resistance to impact, abrasion and indentation. Such properties as good resistance to chemical and solvent attack and good electrical properties are also required for coatings in this application. This paper presents some of the materials which have been prepared and the methods used to evaluate these materials. Specific data are presented on the best track resistant coating developed to date. Details on six arc and track resistance test methods are presented. These tests include the Dust and Fog Test, the High Power Arc Test, the Circular Tracking Test, the Linear Tracking Test, the Alabama Power Test, and ASTM Method Dß+95."
"The object of this paper is to report recent measurements of the conductivity of polystyrene film under relatively high electric fields, and to describe a field effect on the conductivity of that material. Although the existence of a field effect on the conductivity of crystalline materials such as mica was reported by Poole (1), no such data has appeared for amorphous materials such as polystyrene."
"It is generally accepted that the mechanism of breakdown in gases at low pressures is completely described by the Townsend mechanism, and that, as the gas pressure is increased, departure from a Townsend process will be indicated by a failure of Paschen's Law. The present study was undertaken in order to investigate this transition region, and the high pressure range in general."
"Although the gassing of electrical oils under stress has been studied for many years and discussed by a number of authors (1-4, 6-8, 10,11), there appears to be no general agreement as to test methods nor even as to the influence of some of the major test variables. Recent work of Basseches and co-workers indicates that various free-radical reagents will greatly reduce the gassing of paraffinic oils when tested at sub-atmospheric pressures (1,2). Although no gas is evolved in their test at atmospheric pressure, these additives are known to lengthen the life of oil-impregnated capacitors (9). The question therefore arises as to whether the free radical reagents have any beneficial effect in cable oils. In the work reported here, we have investigated this and related questions regarding the mechanism of gas evolution from oils."
"Ability to absorb hydrogen under electrical stress has long been considered an important property of cable oils, and various laboratory test techniques to measure this property have been developed (4,6,8,17,19,20). However, all these direct measurements of the tendency of an oil to evolve or absorb gas require complicated apparatus with high voltages. Such apparatus is suitable for referee and research purposes, but a simpler method for predicting gassing tendencies would be valuable for control and screening purposes. The gassing tendency has been generally related to the aromatic content of the oil. For example, specific optical dispersion has been related to gas absorption (24), is now being used in oil continuity tests, and an ASTM standard is being prepared. However, specific optical dispersion is increased not only by aromatic content but by the extent to which aromatic bonds are conjugated. For example: equation It seems unlikely that such conjugation would affect hydrogen absorption to the same extent."
"Five years ago, the author presented to this Conference a paper entitled “A New Approach to the Analysis of Insulating Liquids”. In addition to presenting theories concerning the behavior of insulating oils, this paper described the Doble Oxidation Test which furnishes information during an accelerated life test that is indicative of the oil quality and its probable service performance by determining the time to the first appearance of sludge or an acidity of .25 KOH/g. Published as a suggested method in the 1958 Annual Report of ASTM Committee D-9, it is currently under study by Committee D-27. A new equally pertinent test which measures power factor has been developed. The combination of both provides information of far greater value than does either test alone."
"Summary form only given. The behavior of particles in a combined gravitational and nonuniform electric field is used to produce separations of materials having different dielectric constants. This paper describes recent improvements to the apparatus previously used for the continuous separations of physical mixtures. The separatory operation consists of passing the finely divided material through a pair of diverging electrodes while the particles fall down a tilted tray. The apparatus is in effect an electrical siphon, and requires extremely little electrical energy other than that to produce mechanical vibratory motion and falling of the particles through the cell. In this phase of the work, studies were made of the electrode design required to produce best separation. In particular it was shown that a specific electrode design is required to minimize clumping due to dielectrophoretic forces while the particles are passing through the cell. The improved cell operates in a small tank of dielectric liquid, and possesses electrodes of improved design, having high curvature and small spacings. It is capable of making separations on materials of even very low dielectric constant, such as those containing quartz. The ability of the isomotive cell to produce separations on materials of closely similar dielectric constant was demonstrated on the system A120 - CaF2 having dielectric constants of 8.5 and 6.9 respectively. In a further test of the isomotive cell, samples of swarf, which are diamond wheel cuttings obtained in certain manufacturing operations were subjected to the action of the nonuniform electric field. This material was mostly alumina containing a small quantity of industrial diamond (about 0.2%) in the size range of 5 microns diameter and over. The low exit of the isomotive cell was observed to be passing material in which the diamond concentration was enriched by a factor of 25."
"The subject of electrets and their theoretical justification is, at best, confused. First, to review briefly the history of the subject, the name “electret” was devised as an electrical analogue to “magnet”. As the name implies an electret is an object having associated with it an apparently permanent electric field. This must be clearly distinguished from a battery which can continuously supply current. A stable electret cannot supply current. The field can be observed by a simple experiment using an electrometer in which one electrode is connected to one side of the electret and the other electrode is brought up to the other side of the electret. The work performed in bringing the electrode up to the side of the electret, passing through the field gradient results in the accumulation of charge in the electrometer. In actual practice, a capacitor is placed across the electrometer to accumulate the charge and a voltage is thereby observed."
"Withdrawn Standard. The primary application of this standard is intended to be in the field of routine operational and maintenance tests, where rapid interpretation and communication of test results is necessary or desirable. The basic techniques described here are also applicable to laboratory measurements, proof-of-performance test, and detailed maintenance procedures."
