"The authors formerly made a report on a direct vision type direction finder for high frequency, which has high sensitivity and by which multiple signals or scattering signals can also be measured. Since then, the finder has been used for studying characteristics of the ionospheric propagation waves. In order to make continuous measurement of bearing convenient, a recording apparatus adaptable to the present direction finder has recently been developed. The diagram of the whole system of the direction finder is shown. The left part of the figure shows a diagram of the former finder and the right part surrounded by dash lines is the recording part. The finder adopts the so-called one-receiver system in which a receiver REC amplifies four kinds of voltages of different directivities in succession as time-division signals by using electric switching. Aside from the general explanation of the finder, the working principle of the recording part is briefly described."
"The spectrum from the infrared through the visible to gamma rays has been surveyed for signalling from Earth or an Earth satellite to a spaceship at planetary distances. The best region for signalling from a satellite vehicle appears to be from 2000 to 400 angstroms. One information bit per second could be sent for a distance many times the diameter of the solar system. If the source is to be on the Earth's surface, the best wavelength region would be 4000 to 3000 angstroms. One could probably then reach the neighborhood of Mars at one bit per second when that planet is closest to the Earth. Greater distances would be possible at slower information rates."
"The possibility of using radio reflection from the sun to provide a communication link supplementing that using moon reflections is investigated analytically. Reflection and absorption of an incident signal in the solar atmosphere, and thermal noise radiated by the sun, are considered together with transmitter capabilities to find the operating frequency giving optimum signal-to-noise ratio. The design principles for a receiver which can separate the signal from the noise are indicated. Finally, achievable signaling rates and reliability are estimated."
"As troposcatter circuits come more and more widely into use, there is a need for simple and reasonably accurate design methods for routine use, since the speed of obtaining a suitable design is sometimes of the utmost importance. This paper attempts to present such a method, derived primarily from experimental data, but with occasional reliance upon theoretical calculations. Certain essential design factors, some of which are still rather controversial, such as path loss and correction factors caused by terrain and climatological effects, aperture-to-medium coupling loss, etc., are discussed in detail. Circuit reliabilities determined from combining instantaneous signal-fading distributions are briefly described. Sets of appropriate curves in simple form are proposed for practical engineering applications."
"Experiments have been carried out on an ionosphericscatter link to observe the effects of long-delayed multipath signals, caused by F2propagated back scatter, on the intelligibility of voice communication. Frequency modulation and single-sideband modulation equipments were used for the tests. During periods when the back-scatter signal levels approached the level of the normal ionospheric-scatter signals, the frequency-modulation voice transmissions were unintelligible; however, under the same conditions, single-sideband voice communication intelligibility remained at almost 100 per cent although there was some loss in quality."
"Behavior of the tropospheric scatter mechanism is now sufficiently well understood to permit a determination of optimum transmission criteria. The requirements for optimization are established from the channel signal-to-noise ratio equation. It is shown that the optimum is related not only to the basic RF transmission loss, but also to the effective noise figure, antenna gain and medium aperture loss. It is considered that if a minimum product of antenna height, path length, and frequency are maintained, there will be a cubic relation between path loss and frequency. When the frequency dependence of the other factors is also taken into account, it is found that the net result will depend either directly or inversely upon frequency, depending upon the choice of system parameters. On this basis, and by using a graphical solution, an optimum frequency is found, for which the system gain maximizes. It is seen that for a given antenna, the product of frequency and path length is substantially constant. From this, it is found that the minimum product of antenna height, path length and frequency is achieved, so validating the use of the initial cubic relation. It is shown that when the optimum frequency is used, the associated medium aperture loss is rather small, so that improved accuracy in the determination of this factor is unlikely to produce substantial improvement in the optimized system. Also, the plane wave antenna gain is not exceptionally high, so that structures which are more economic than paraboloidal types may be contemplated. Curves for path loss vs distance are derived using optimum frequencies; total loss curves for 99.9 per cent reliability of the optimized system are also shown. This data is used to establish a series of system capability curves which are directly related to transmitter power, noise bandwidth and the signal-to-noise ratio at receiver input. It is considered that with the optimized system, very low power may be used to carry high capacity circuits over quite long spans."
"The modulation bandwidth that a scatter system can handle is mainly determined by the transmitting and receiving antenna beamwidths. A higher carrier frequency, therefore, permits the use of a smaller antenna. The transmitter power may then be chosen to give an adequate carrier-to-noise ratio. A method of reducing the differential delay in diversity receivers which extends the modulation band a given scatter system can handle, has been developed. IF amplifiers in wide-band scatter systems are a particularly difficult compromise between performance and ease of maintenance. To date it has not proved possible to use phase equalizers on these circuits, and between 1 and 2 db of threshold must thereby be sacrificed. IF combining is attractively simple, but even with delay correction, it is doubtful whether the phase can be locked to the required accuracy at low carrier-to-noise ratios. The base-band combiner is more complex but can be made to operate up to modulation frequencies of 5 mc. Its operating range is somewhat restricted, however."
"The performance of phase modulation communication systems is investigated for the asymptotic case of a high signal-to-noise ratio. A simple and excellent approximation to the probability of error is derived for both coherent and phase-comparison demodulation. In addition, a simple expression is derived for the asymptotic degradation of phase-comparison demodulation. When the number of bits per sample of the signal is large, a combination of digital amplitude and phase modulation is found to make more effcient use of transmitter power than phase modulation alone. The number of amplitude levels may be optimized for either minimum peak power or minimum average power, using the approximate expressions for probability of error. While an analytical solution can be found for the peak power case, a numerical solution with restriction to powers of two appears preferable, and is necessary for the average power case. Accordingly, tables showing the optimum number of levels with this restriction are presented."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"In a communication system using optimum diversity combining, the mean signal-to-noise ratio of the combined signal is the sum of the mean signal-to-noise ratios of the separate signals. However, the effective signal-to-noise ratio of the combined signal is less than this. The ratio of the mean to effective signal-to-noise ratios of the combined signal is called the fading loss. The effective signal-to-noise ratio, and hence the fading loss, depends upon the measure of effectiveness used, which in turn depends upon the form of information conveyed by the signal. In a high-quality speech system, the fading loss is shown to depend principally upon the order of diversity (the number of signals combined). In a binary communication system, the fading loss is shown to depend principally upon the mean signal-to-noise ratio of the separate signals. The system design considerations in these two cases are therefore different."
"This paper presents the results of a study of the basic factors underlying the selection of a preferable method of transmission for pulse-code modulation communication systems. A new method of transmission, called biternary, is described and is compared with quaternary transmission, as a means of doubling the channel capacity of PCM systems without requiring increased bandwidth or transmission facilities. It is found that biternary transmission is more tolerant of the effects of all types of interference than quaternary transmission, and significantly reduces a major problem of quaternary transmission excessive errors, caused by low frequency cut-off effects. The use of biternary transmission is planned in present and future military pulse-code modulation communication systems."
"Oblique incidence backscatter soundings have long been used in probing the ionosphere. These have normally employed pulse transmissions and thus have required either special equipment, or special modifications to existing communications equipment for transmission and reception of such signals. A new technique has been developed which allows normal communication or broadcast transmissions to be used for backscatter sounding. It involves a cross correlation performed between the transmitted signal and the returned backscatter signal. The use of re-entrant delay lines as storage devices permits continuous real time cross correlations of relatively long samples of the waveforms. An A-scope presentation of the cross correlation function serves the same purpose as an A-scope display of the backscattered pulse signal. An intensity modulated range-time display of the cross correlation function, very similar to the range-time display commonly employed in ionospheric sounding, can provide a continuous record of skip distance variations. Samples of experimental data obtained using this technique are presented."
"Two methods are proposed for comparing the performances of digital communication systems differing in the number of available signals, in bandwidth, in rate of transmission, and in complexity. The systems are ranked on the basis of the probability of correct reception of transmitted messages. The signal durations are adjusted so that the systems have either equal bandwidths or equal rates of transmission. The concept of 'strictly comparable systems' is introduced; for these the two methods lead to the same ranking. From one group of strictly comparable systems to another, the reliability of communication tends to decrease as the relative rate of transmission increases or as the bandwidth decreases. A number of systems are graphically compared by these methods, including some to which parity-check coding has been applied. The advatage over binary systems of systems of higher order, in which more than one kind of signal can be transmitted, is illustrated."
"Now there is a growing concern among many of the members of the Institute that the PG (Professional Group) organization has grown somewhat too fast and without adequate control of the scope of each group. They also question the ability of IRE membership to support many more professional groups at this time. There is a definite, growing reluctance against permitting indiscriminate growth in the number of groups. On the other hand, there are othwerhso hisitate to suggest controls that would discourage groups with special interests from forming new professional groups. It is quite obvious that all of this is a very complex problem of management. In the case of our own Professional Group on Communications Systems, as the pendulum swung away from us, we have seen the formation of other groups that have slowly taken away bits and pieces of our broad interests in communications systems. As the pendulum now starts to swing towards us, thert are many indications that serious consideration should be given to changing the name of PGCS to the \"Professional Group on Communications and Electronics Systems.\""
"The author of the above-named work, which appeared on pages 87-100 of the June, 1960, issue of these Transactions notes various errors in the list of symbols; equations (47, (48), (56), (57), (59), (66) and (67); text on page 100, and curves 4 & 5 of Fig. 15."
"The application of thin-route technique in an economical integrated small-scale VHF system in the 156-174-Mc band is described. The system provides point-to-point multi-channel voice, teletype and mobile communications between the main office of the Trans-Arabian Pipe Line Company in Beirut, Lebanon, and pumping stations and mobile units along the route of the pipeline through Lebanon, Syria, Jordan and Saudi Arabia. In addition, supervisory control and telemetering of 5000-HP combustion gas turbine pumping installations over portions of the system; including a 120-mile long link, is described. The terminals of this link and others, 90 to .05 miles long, are well beyond the horizon. Dual frequency diversity is employed. Several 250-watt transmitters and dual diversity receivers are duplexed on large arrays mounted on 200-foot selfsupporting towers. Two remote unattended relay stations are employed. System parameters, over-all propagation reliability, and plans for expansion as well as the economic attractiveness of a thin-route design for use in remote areas, are discussed."
"Aircraft on transpolar flights do not have highly reliable noise-free communications. By the use of polar-orbiting satellite repeaters, UHF communications can be utilized. Active, wideband repeaters are proposed in the satellite, using equipment similar to existing hardware. A system is discussed for a 5000-mile altitude satellite orbit and a 3500-mile ground distance separation. Complete system parameters are described. The satellite receiver, noise figure, satellite transmitter power output, and satellite solar power generation system are discussed in greater detail. It is concluded that the system is feasible and practical and could be implemented immediately to provide high probability noise-free communications."
"In conventional FM receivers, the gain of the limiters rises during a fade to maintain constant output. The resulting sharp rise in noise complicates the problem of diversity combining, requiring the combiner to provide a very high degree of suppression of noisy signals. By suitable limiter design, the necessary AM suppression can be obtained without affecting average receiver gain, permitting the use of simple linear addition at baseband for diversity combining. Cross coupling between limiters of a set of receivers maintains constant combined output. Receivers are simply connected in parallel to provide any degree of diversity. No additional circuits or components are used for the combining function, since operation does not depend on measurement of out-of-band noise. For the same reason, the system is not disabled by loss of pilot tones or by multipath distortion products of interference appearing as excess out-of-space noise. The performance of this combiner compares favorably with other presently used combining methods."
"A communication system is analyzed which utilizes phase modulation (PM) and phase detection. The analysis shows that when the total radio frequency (RF) power level is significantly above the receiver threshold, a margin of safety exists which may be traded for additional signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) at the demodulated output of the receiver. In this respect the PM system is similar to FM communication systems which utilize an \"FM improvement factor.\" Several examples are presented to indicate the magnitude of the PM improvement factor when the signal is a sine wave variable throughout the audio band. A novel type of closed-loop phase detector is suggested which is linear over a very wide range of phase angles."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"The performance of two types of digital phase-and amplitude-modulated systems is investigated for the high signal-to-noise ratio region. Approximate expressions for the probability of error and channel capacity of the more optimum of these two systems are compared with corresponding expressions for probability of error and channel capacity for a digital phase-modulated system. It is shown that the phase- and amplitude-modulated systems show a definite power advantage over the phase-only system when the information content per transmitted symbol must be greater than 3 bits. From a channel capacity standpoint, the phase- and amplitude-modulated systems make more efficient use of the channel for signal-to-noise ratios greater than 11 db. The more optimum of the two phase and amplitude systems has only a 3-db advantage over the less optimum and is considerably more difficult to instrument."
"A method is presented for determining the relationships between the \"costs\" (size, weight, dollars) and the electrical characteristics (frequency, bandwidth, input power, output power, atenna gain) of radio equipment used in military communications systems. The compilation of pertinent data is described, and a series of empirical \"trade-off\" curves displaying cost-design relationships as they exist in various classes of current and developmental military equipment is shown. Separate sets of curves are included to illustrate the dependence of the trade-offs on such factors as the type of installation for which the equipment was designed, the type of modulation employed and developmental status."
"Considerable advance has been made in the automation of clerical work over the last ten years, and the movement continues unabated. There is thus an ever-increasing need for means of telecommunication suitable for the exchange of information between computers and remote input and output equipment (i.e. data transmission). As soon as large organizations, or organizations spread over a large geographic area, adopt automation of clerical work, a need arises for a system comprising one or more computers which have to be linked to numerous sets of input and output equipment. This necessitates a telecommunication network for digital information, and this network must be perfectly matched to, and form an integral whole with, the system. An excellent example of such an arrangement is an airline space reservation system. This system is examined in detail, and its operational and technical requirements are discussed, as well as the means of realizing them. Particular attention is paid to the question of reliability, speed and efficiency, and it is shown that these three factors are closely interrelated. When traffic is heavily concentrated, it will be necessary to employ high signalling speeds, though these will not be economically justified where traffic is light."
"This paper deals with a slope-feedback method for compressing the bandwidth of speech signals. The maximum amount of compression is estimated from a quantity called the speech detail factor. This is analogous to the familiar picture detail factor. Measurements of the former show that the following compression ratios are possible 1) a two-fold compression of \"telephone\" quality speech, 2) almost five-fold compression of band-filtered speech which has a syllable articulation of 60 per cent. A special feature of the coder is a variable-delay unit and the experimental version is described."
"Using resonators built with high \"Q\" ferrite-cored inductors and suitably selected plastic film capacitors, improved band-pass and band-elimination filters have been designed which allow the accommodation of duplex high-speed telegraphy channels in a mid-band-speech carrier circuit, with small degradation in voice quality and with negligible cross-talk. It is shown that in such a circuit, the removal of a 400-cps frequency band from the voice spectrum, from about 1100 to 1500 cps, offers the best compromise as far as intelligibility of speech is concerned. The basic elements of a complete system are described. The improved tone channel filters accept, with small distortion and ringing, frequency shifts of ±42.5 cps and allow: 1) the reduction of the usual 170-cps channel spacing to 145 cps, without increase in cross-talk, and 2) the location of 145-cps spaced tones up to 6000 cps in suitable links. For systems with frequency shifts of ±30 cps, similar units with a narrower acceptance band reduce the required channel spacing to only 85 cps."
"An analysis of a partially digitized phase-locked loop usingZ-transform sampled data theory is presented. Responses are obtained at various junctions of the loop for both a step frequency input and for a sinusoidal frequency input. These responses are compared with the corresponding responses for an analog phaselocked loop. Stability criterion and root locus are determined. Effects of quantization are studied. It is concluded that over most of the range of operation the behavior of the digital phase-locked loop is nearly identical to the corresponding analog phase-locked loop, but that in addition, certain possible advantages may occur as a result of the digitization."
"As man's ability to escape the attraction of the earth's gravitational field increases, the science of earth-space communications becomes more and more important. In this paper, an attempt is made to analyze the relevant propagation, noise and general system aspects of earth-space systems and to predict the operating frequencies for maximum range. The earth's atmosphere is shown to be nearly transparent to the transmission of radio frequencies (RF) between 80 and 15,000 megacycles. The various sources of noise both internal and external to the earth-space communications system are investigated and a spectrum of system sensitivity is plotted. Maximum available transmitter power and practical antenna parameters are predicted for the 1965-1970 era. All of these factors are then combined and weighted according to the \"beacon\" or \"radar\" equations, and the optimum operating frequencies for maximum range one-way and two-way earth-space communications systems are shown to lie in the microwave region of the spectrum."
"Differences in distortion are calculated for sinusoidally phase modulated signals that are passed through dissimilar single-tuned RLC filters. The differences in distortion of two identical signals are related to filter tolerances. A two-tone phase modulated signal is shown to experience significant distortions relative to a single-tone phase modulated signal, although the difference tone is hardly distorted, if passed alone."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This paper examines the problem of designing a linear feedback system so that its response to a specified input is relatively insensitive to slow changes in system parameters. Classical feedback design techniques involve the specification of the system sensitivity function on the basis only of the forced response to a given input. A new performance criterion has been derived, in which the mean square variation of the system response is minimized. This specification of the sensitivity function results in control over the variation of both the characteristic and forced responses with system changes. The approach is based upon the assumption of a differential change in the variable system parameter, but yields workable results for large changes. It employs mathematical techniques which have been well developed for other applications in network design. The stability problem associated with high loop gains is considerably reduced when the sensitivity function is specified on the basis of this criterion."
"This is the final part of a three-part paper on the application of vector techniques to automatic control systems whose input, output, and disturbance quantities may be characterized by three-dimensional vectors. In Parts 1 and 2, position and angular velocity vectors were introduced to demonstrate the solution of coordinate conversion and geometric stabilization problems, respectively. In brief, the subject of Part 3 is Newton's Second Law, with the application of the previously defined vector algebra to problems in kinetics. In particular, the behavior of \"Newtonian sensors\" such as gyroscopes and accelerometers is considered in detail, in order to develop the basic equations which describe the dynamic performance of these devices, determine the errors associated with their usage, and demonstrate the application of the vector algebra to more complex systems."
"Since Goldfarb's original work on describing functions, a considerable number of papers have been published in which the describing functions of particular nonlinearities have been derived. It appears however that little effort has been made to classify the nonlinearities. Since the describing function method is one of the more powerful methods available at present to analyze nonlinear feedback systems, it appears desirable to collect the expressions for the describing functions of a few different types of nonlinearities in one paper. It is the purpose of this paper to derive the describing functions of two general types of nonlinearities and show how the describing functions of many other practical types of nonlinearities for which the describing function analysis is valid naturally follow."
"This paper gives a basic representation of a high performance hydraulic servo actuator. The discussion gives a means of calculating the servo gain and rate limit characteristics as functions of the design parameters. Assumptions are discussed that would allow simplification of the equations for their application with computing equipment. Representation of the supply accumulator and pump is included. The effects of equipment nonlinearities can be incorporated into the basic model with appropriate modification of the computer program. The work of this paper has been applied to the design and analysis of missile flight control systems where the rate limit characteristic of the actuator is significant to dynamic performance."
"A multivariable controlled process or plant is one in which there arenindependent inputs andmoutputs withn > 1andm \\leq n. A control problem may exist for one or two principal reasons. 1) The plant parameters may vary or they may be only vaguely known, and the system response sensitivity to the parameter variation is to be reduced. 2) The system response to disturbances is to be reduced. A synthesis procedure for attaining these objectives and simultaneously realizing a desired set of system transmission functions is developed in this paper. The role of system configuration is considered. Design is broken up into two separate regions. In the significant system-response frequency region, there is straightforward synthesis in attaining the design objectives. In the higher frequency range, the loop transmission must be shaped so that the system is stable. The latter problem is considerably more difficult when there are substantial plant parameter variations. Some procedures are illustrated by two detailed examples (n=m=2in one example, andn=3, m =2in the second) in which there are large plant parameter variations."
"Recent advances in the analysis of nonlinear control systems have given rise to a more logical and systematic approach to the elimination of the detrimental effects of inherent nonlinearities. The describing function technique is used in this paper to analyze two typical servos. The servos are shown to exhibit a stable limit cycle and are stabilized by linear and nonlinear techniques. The nonlinear technique involves the insertion of an additional nonlinear feedback element which feeds back a distorted signal opposite in phase to the original distorted feedback signal. In particular, a method is developed in this paper for determining the accuracy required in the construction of a practical nonlinear compensating element."
"Most of the better known articles from Soviet literature on the subject of control systems published between January, 1953 and March, 1959 are cited. Emphasis is on the theoretical aspects of control systems. The items are arranged alphabetically according to author, with no attempt at classification. The first section includes all topics and the second section lists only articles which have English translations. Annotations are given only for articles which the bibliographer has examined. The introduction mentions some of the existing bibliographies in the field and discusses possible schemes for classifying bibliographic references to control systems."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A frequency-domain mathematical model for comparing the performance of a linear sampled-data channel to a linear continuous channel is developed. The model assumes a suddenly applied stationary random input (input identically zero before the local time origin). The model allows an explicit algebraic definition of ensemble mean-squared error, after a finite operating time, by application of residue theory. The ideal or comparison channel need not be realizable. The quasi-stationary characteristics of the excitation are accounted for by including a starting switch as a variable parameter within the appropriate system weighting functions. The technique developed in this paper is utilized to evaluate the ensemble mean-squared error due to processing a vehicle velocity estimate (as might be supplied by an integrating accelerometer) in a digital computer. The velocity estimate is used to calculate a numerical value of present vehicle position. This problem is of fundamental importance in present-day pure inertial, pure Doppler, or inertial-Doppler navigation systems. The effect of quantization, inherent in the process of analog-to-digital conversion, may be included in this evaluation. It is shown that for cases where system inputs can be approximated by narrow-band, first-order, Markoff-type power spectra, the practical engineering use of the simplest digital integration program (rectangular) or the simplest hold (box-car) is well justified. The examples illustrate the mathematical techniques necessary to compute the ensemble mean-squared error, and illustrate how several simplifying assumptions may be used."
"An analytic study of flywheel autopilots for attitude control of space vehicles is described, and the results of a three-axis analog computer program are presented. The objectives of this study were to determine the requirements, capabilities and limitations of flywheel autopilots as functions of desired accuracy and speed of response, disturbing moments, differential gravity restoring torques, component uncertainties, and vehicle initial attitude and attitude rate errors. The stability and accuracy degradations that resulted from not compensating for gyroscopic crosscoupling torques are summarized. Design tools are presented for synthesizing a three-axis autopilot in accordance with specified design criteria of size, power, accuracy, response rate and error disturbances."
"The control of a missile in free-fall in the presence of external disturbances requires that the control system be stable when various body bending modes are excited. It is an inevitable consequence of the internal and external missile environment that all body bending modes are excited. The general method of stabilizing a missile is to choose a minimum of inertial sensors such as rate and attitude gyros, and through the use of passive electrical networks in the information paths, generate stabilizing poles and zeros in the control system open-loop transfer functions. Generally, the electrical shaping networks are approximations to \"maximally\" flat functions with the cutoff frequency below the first bending mode resonant frequency, and in extreme cases, a notch filter is needed to eliminate body bending information. Tae basic purpose of the electrical shaping networks is to attenuate the high signal frequencies circulating in the control loop without the loss of important low frequency data. In some applications the use of passive shaping networks becomes very difficult because of the large attenuation required near the first body bending resonant frequency and the required amplitude flatness at lower frequencies. If passive shaping cannot be used, then active networks must be substituted. This is an undesirable complexity. This paper presents an optimum design procedure to utilize the characteristic properties of completed airframe and missile structures to acquire a maximum increase in modal damping without auxiliary equipment and further autopilot complexity by the proper choice of the subassembly attaching fixtures. Completed airframes and missiles are composed of a very lightweight integral structure in which a large number of equipment sub-assemblies are attached. The sub-assemblies or equipment modules are generally massive and of small volume so that they act as a rigid mass attached to the lightweight integral structure via an equivalent lateral spring constant and viscous damper. For example, the guidance package and the rocket engine of a ballistic missile are usually attached fore and aft of the missile integral tank structure. Each of these elements can be quite rigid and will act as a separate mass from the integral tank structure. The proper choice of the equivalent lateral spring constant and viscous damper of the attaching fixtures that hold the sub-assemblies to the basic lightweight missile or airframe integral structure will result in an optimum increase in modal damping for a particular beam-flexural mode of the completed structure. To determine the values of the proper equivalent spring constant and viscous coefficient, the dynamic principles underlying the Frahm damper are used by extending the analysis of the Frahm damper concept to include a general linear flexural beam which satisfies a linear partial differential equation which can be solved by the product of the solutions of two ordinary, linear differential equations. The extension of these principles is accomplished by deriving the solution of the attached sub-assembly to the integral structure through normal servomechanism analysis. This analysis uses the analytical relationships of the Evans or Root-Locus method."
"The design of a conventional autopilot requires a detailed knowledge of the structural dynamics of the missile that is not easily obtainable. The self-adaptive autopilot considered in this paper would not depend on this detailed knowledge. This system would, ideally, adjust itself to maintain optimum performance in an environment of changing inertial, aerodynamic, and structural parameters. The mechanization of a suitable self adaptive system is complicated by the difficulty of getting a continuous measure of system performance. The method used, in this study, to obtain the basic modes is based on decomposition of the transient response."
"In the past decade improvements have been made in the design of dry powder magnetic clutches which now make them competitive with hydraulic devices for missile servo actuator applications. Some of the inherent advantages of magnetic clutch actuators are: (a) increased control system reliability, (b) simplified equipment requirements, (c) properties remain constant with usage, (d) environmental requirements are quite compatible with an orbiting vehicle. The dynamic servo response of the magnetic clutch servo actuator is required in order to incorporate these advantages in missile and space control system design. This paper presents a synthesis procedure for the optimum design of a position servo based upon the closed-loop transient response to a step input. The transient response of the position servo is described by four independent parameters. These parameters are the rise time, damping ratio, undamped natural frequency, and the steady-state gain. The synthesis procedure is based upon a theoretical model of a dry powder magnetic clutch, which is an air-gap, iron-care transformer with a one-turn secondary. The air gap is filled with dry ferrite particles. To provide simple analytic functions, a definition for rise time is developed which corresponds to the first crossing of unity gain to a high order of accuracy. The theoretical model of the magnetic clutch has two, first-order time lags. These two time lags are derived from the properties of the theoretical clutch model. They arise from the inductive properties of the clutch excitation coil and the clutch rotor induced eddy current, which is the current in the equivalent transformer single-turn secondary. The compensation for the excitation coil time lag consists of excitation current feedback, which decreases the effective transfer function time constant. The induced rotor eddy current time lag is optimally compensated by the proper selection of feedback gains as outlined in the synthesis procedure. The position servo drives an undamped inertial load. This is characteristic of a control system for an outer space vehicle or a guided missile which utilizes swivel rocket nozzles for control. It is also a first-order approximation to an airframe control servo utilizing neutral aerodynamic surfaces with low damping. The position servo characteristics are provided by a position feedback branch, and the basic servo stability is provided by a tachometer feedback. The theoretical model results in a third-order system which cannot be unstable. Practical magnetic clutches differ from the theoretical model primarily because they have ferromagnetic hysteresis. At high frequencies, hysteresis appears as a constant time delay which makes servo instability possible. An additional constraint to the synthesis procedure is given which guarantees a stable, closed-loop position servo with the desired performance characteristics. The entire analysis in this paper is based upon the application of Root-Locus analytical methods to extract the theoretical roots of the third-order system describing the magnetic clutch actuator position servo."
"The stability and accuracy of a control system consisting of two interwoven loops are affected by interaction among all transfer functions and all inputs. This is undesirable, since the design of each transfer function must be compromised to account for the interaction effects. In some cases, the two loops can be decoupled by the addition of an appropriate feedback path. This paper describes the application of this technique to a radar angle tracking loop. The technique described has the following advantages: 1. The required matching takes place within the loop so that the effect of any mismatch is attenuated by the open loop gain. 2. For the example used, the output angular rate accuracy becomes independent of aircraft motion. 3. Subject to the rather minor restriction implied by item 1, the two loops become independent as far as stability is concerned. Decoupling, which is described in this paper by illustrating its application to a particular system, is applicable to any complex control system. However, to the author's knowledge, no formal procedure for general application is available."
"This paper considers the synthesis of optimum sampled data multipole filters with n inputs and m outputs. The signal portion of each input is assumed to consist of a stationary random component and a polynomial with unknown coefficients but known maximum order. Each signal is corrupted by stationary random noise. The filter under investigation is linear, time-invariant, and has finite memory. Each input to the filter consists of a sequence of impulses with a constant period T. Each impulse is assumed to have an area equal to the value of the signal plus noise at the sampling instant. The synthesis procedure to be developed is to specify the weighting functions of the filter such that the system error, which is defined as the difference between the actual and ideal outputs, has zero ensemble mean and the system ensemble mean square error is minimum. The weighting functions thus obtained will have, in general, abrupt jumps at the sampling instants but they are continuous within the sampling intervals. The synthesis procedure is extended to the case shown in Appendix A where each of the nonrandom signals can be expressed as an arbitrary linear combination of a set of known time functions. Further generalization is possible to the synthesis of time-varying filter with sampled nonstationary random inputs as given in Appendix B."
"This study was initiated as an effort to explain certain oscillatory phenomena observed in an aircraft and weapon control system operated in a particular mode. The oscillations in question were of the undamped limit-cycle type and their presence could very clearly be correlated with the degree of noise corruption of the signals. It is demonstrated in this paper that certain types of nonlinear systems although being inherently stable may be driven into oscillatory modes not only by random signals but also by any high frequency periodic or nonperiodic signal possessing a certain energy content. It is of interest to note that the tendency for hunting and also the hunt frequency usually are completely independent of the frequency of the excitation signal, i.e., the phenomenon is of asynchronous nature. A general theory, the validity of which has been tested by both analog and digital means, is presented and utilized to demonstrate how this phenomenon may be predicted from information on circuit data."
"An analysis technique for nonlinear sampled data systems is developed, using the incremental phase plane. This method is analogous to the phase plane method for continuous systems. A sampled data system with saturation is analyzed to demonstrate the use of the incremental phase plane in system analysis. Path tangent curves are introduced which allow the graphical solution of systems with more general types of nonlinearities. A difference equation analog of Van der Pol's equation is solved using the path tangent curves."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A simple control system whose state variable xnis described by the difference equation (1) is considered. xn+l= α xn+rn+vn, n = 1, 2 ...N , o<α<1 (1) where Vn is the control force of the system and rn is the Bernoulli random noise with the probability parameter p. If 4 (x ~) is the performance index of the final-value system, then the problem is to find a sequence of control forces vn , n = 1, 2 . . .N, which minimizes the expecte d l value of 4 (xN). An optimal sequence of vn is determined by solving a recurrence relation on n of the criterion function hn (x;p) defined a s follows: hn (x;p) = Min Min . . . Min E [4 (XJ] v1v2 . .. vn = the minimum of the expected value of 4 (xn ) obtainable in the n-stage control process by employing an optimal policy, starting from the initial state variable x when the probability parameter of the random disturbance is p. The recurrence relation is obtained by the usual application of the principle of optimality of dynamic programming technique. It is proved that hn (x;p) = hn (-x; 1-p) holds and this fact is used in reducing by half the amount of computation when it is necessary to solve the recurrence relation numerically. If the values of control variable vn (x;p) are restricted to 1 and -1 as in contactor servo systems, the boundaries between 1 and -1 control forces become too complicated to be determined analytically except for few special cases. By solving vn (x;p) computationally for the 4 (XN) = XN case, It is seen that vn (x;p) agrees with v1 (x;p) fairly well for all n > 1, v1 (x;p) is the optimal control force when there remains only one chance of exerting control forces. Hence, the suboptimal policyof a l w w - plying control forces as if onLx one more erxor correction is possible may be expected to.be cl=se t-oLh2 o-t!mal pohcy in minimizing E(x$). The control fzrce vi .(x;.p) is IiKear ii-~ x Gd-p &d F is a much more simple function to mechanize. : his suboptimal policy is tried by the Monte Carlo method and found to be only slightly inferior ; me-mti-mal policy. The behavior of X, is investigated by assuming the control forces are given by the suboptimal policy. This approximate analysis should be good in view of the agreements between the optimal and suboptimal policies. It is important to realize that if the adoption of a suboptimal policy results in a simplified mechanization of the optimal control forces, with only a slight reduction in the system performance, then the suboptimal policy might be optimal in a certain enlarged performance index. What seems to be the most desirable approach to engineering problems is a unified o r well-integrated one where the analytical and computational algorithms are used to supplement each other. In this paper, an attempt is made to illustrate the point, presenting at the same time a new approach to analysis and synthesis of a certain class of control systems."
"As described in the introduction of this paper, the state vector xn, representing the present state of a sampling control system, is assumed to satisfy a difference equationx_{n+1} = T(x_{n}, r_{n}, \\upsilon_{n}), where\\upsilon_{n}is the control vector of the system subject to random disturbances rn. The random variables rnare assumed to be independent of each other and to be defined in a parameter space in the following manner: Nature is assumed to be in one of a finite number,q, of possible states and each state has its own parameter value, thus specifying uniquely and unequivocally the distribution function of rn. It is further assumed that we are given the a priori probabilityz =(z_{1}, . . . , z_{q})of each possible state of nature,i= 1,2, . . . , q,\\sum\\min{i=1}\\max{q} z_{i}=1, z_{i} \\geq 0. Given a criterion of performance, the duration of the process and the domain of the control variable, a sequence of control variables {\\upsilon_{n}} is to be determined as a function of the state vector of the system and time, so as to optimize the performance. The sequential nature of the determination of\\upsilon_{n}is evident here, since the stochastic nature of the problem prevents specification of such a sequence of\\upsilon's as a function of the initial state and time. By means ot the functional equation technique of dynamic programming, a recurrence relation of the criterion function of the process,k_{n}(x, z), is derived, wherexis the state variable of the system when there remainncontrol stages. Whenqis taken to be two and the criterion of performance to hex_{N}^{2}with the constraint on the control variables\\sum\\min{i=0}\\max{N-1} \\upsilon_{i}^{2} \\leq K, where xnis the final state vector of the system, it is shown thatk_{n}(x, z)is the formw_{n}(z)x^{2}and the optimal\\upsilon_{n}(x, z)is linear inx, as might be expected. The dependence ofk_{n}(x, z)and\\upsilon_{n}(x, z)onzis investigated further, andw_{n}(z)is found to he concave inz. Explicit quadratic forms forw_{n}(z)are obtained in the neighborhood ofz = 0and 1. The optimal\\upsilon_{n}(x, z)is found to be monotonically decreasing inz. When the domain of\\upsilon_{n}is restricted to a finite set of values, as in contactor servo systems, no explicit expressions fork_{n}(x, z)and\\upsilon_{n}(x, z)are available. However,k_{n}(x, z)is still concave inzand approximately given byzk_{n}(x, 1) + (1 - z)k_{n}(x, 0). By solving the recurrence relation numerically, this approximation is found to be very good for moderately large n, say 10. This means that if one has explicit solutions forp =p_{1}andp = P_{2}, then one can approximate the criterion function for the adaptive case wherePr(p =p_{1})= zby a linear function inzas shown above. This provides fairly good lower bound onk_{n}(x, z), and in turn serves to determine an initial approximate policy. A concept of suboptimal policy is introduced and numerical experiments are performed to test suboptimal policy suggested from numerical solution. The system behavior under the suboptimal policy is also discussed."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"This paper is concerned with the problem of statistical design of digital control systems. A simplified design procedure is introduced. The minimum mean-square error is adopted as the performance criterion; and the system design is based upon the Wiener-Kolmogoroff theory of optimum filtering and prediction. The treatment of this optimization problem makes use of the modifiedz-tranusform technique, and is presented in close parallel with the procedure for the statistical design of linear continuous-data control systems. By making use of some important properties of the auto-correlation sequence, the cross-correlation sequence, the pulse spectral density and the pulse cross-spectral density, the statistical design of digital control systems can be carried out in a simple and systematic manner."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A difference equation approach is presented to determine the periodic modes in relay servomechanisms employing sampled data. In using the method, together with Izawa and Weaver's method, the investigator can have all the information concerning possible periodic modes of a system. This new technique is based on expressing periodic sequences in terms of orthogonal functions in the discrete sense and balancing the harmonics."
"Stabilization techniques for single variable feedback control systems are well known. For multivariable feedback control systems, comparable methods are still in the initial stage of development. A method of system stabilization is discussed, which reduces the problem to essentially that of a single variable system. This method uses a compensating matrix which is either the inverse system- or transposed system-matrix. An example of this method of system stabilization is given and its usefulness discussed."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A procedure is presented for finding, in a systematic matter, the forcing function to be applied to a process to give time-optimal control. The results are limited to the case where the process to be controlled has dynamics which are completely known and are adequately described by a system of linear differential equations. It has also been assumed that the process is not subject to unknown disturbances. The implication of the method presented is that any process as limited above can be time-optimally controlled, in those cases where a time-optimal controller exists, provided an underlying system of transcendental equations can be solved. This system of transcendental equations can be quite easily solved for systems of order less than three, even with two forcing functions, and for various other special cases of higher order. The results of a study which indicate that the method can be applied in quite general situations are being presented elsewhere"
"This paper deals with the application ofz-transform techniques to the analysis of sampled-data systems in which signals appear in pulse duration modulated form. The characteristics of pulse duration sampled data are first briefly described. An analytical means for studying the transient response and stability of systems which use this kind of data is then presented. Finally, a comparison is shown of analytical results with tests on several representative experimental systems. A short discussion of the relative advantages and disadvantages of pulse duration modulation in control systems is also included."
"The analysis of two-dimensional cross-coupled feedback control systems is studied because many such systems are in existence, and methods for their analysis and criteria for measuring their performance have had only limited attention in the technical literature [1]-[6]. Previous literature has generally been in the area of matrix analysis of multidimensional or multiloop systems, and has not treated the handling of poles and zeros in the complexs- plane or cross-coupling, as they are treated in this paper. An algebraic model is developed for a generalized system, using the assumption that all components of the system, including the cross-coupling transfer function, may be represented by expressions in the complex frequency domain which have real-time domain equivalents describable by linear differential equations. The stability of the two-dimensional, cross-coupled, feedback control system is studied by complex-plane methods, and a method is developed for determining whether a system is stable or not. A technique is also indicated to show how an unstable system may be made stable by the introduction of appropriate cross-coupling."
"The stability of a system which alternates between stable and unstable configurations at random times may be investigated conveniently using Kronecker products. The system is stable with probability one if, and only if, all the eigenvalues of a specified matrix lie within the unit circle. If stability in the presence of a parameter adjustment is to be investigated, a root-locus plot of the eigenvalues is convenient."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The Professional Group on Microwave Theory and Techniques has established the Microwave Prize to recognize annually a significant paper which appeared in the IRE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques. In selecting the paper, consideration is given primarily to the subject of the contribution and secondarily to its presentation. All members and affiliates of PGMTT are eligible. The award consists of a certificate, a monetary sum of $100, and a feature publication in these Transactions. If the paper has more than one author, the monetary sum is divided equally among the authors."
"It has been commonly expected that improved operation of the ferrite parametric amplfier could be obtained by use of materials of narrower resonance linewidth, Delta H. This parameter is critical in determining the pumping power (P/sub p/) required for operation of the device. Also of importance, however, is the limitation of device properties determined by the dependence on Delta H of the instability threshold of the spin-wave system. Considering this limitation, the maximum voltage gain-fractional bandwidth product (g/sub v/Delta omega/omega/sub 1/) has been determined as a function of other device parameters, and typical values calculated for several modes of operation. In the electromagnetic mode, for example, there is an optimum Delta H which yields maximum g/sub v/Delta omega/omega/sub 1/) at a given pumping power. It is also shown that a minimum filling factor, also a function of Delta H for some types of operation, is required to reach the oscillation threshold even in the unloaded device."
"For the extension of the mode theory of the Iossless periodically distributed parametric amplifier to the Iossy case, a \"conjugate circuit\" is introduced in this paper. The conjugate circuit is an imaginary circuit which is obtained in the pass band by replacing each resistance in the original circuit with the negative resistance of the same maguitude. The orthogonality properties between the modes of the original circuit and those of the conjugate circuit are derived. The power gain and the noise figure of the amplifier are calculated, showing the usefulness of this mode theory in accounting for the spreading resistance of the semiconductor diode."
"A problem often encountered in wave physics concerns the interaction of various types of waves, and the energy transfer from one wave to another. In the particular case of waves of the same nature, \"modes\" can be distinguished in such a way that a wave can be represented as a sum of these modes. Their essential character is that the energy associated with each does not vary with time. It is also said that these modes are not \"coupled.\" This, for instance, is the case of waves guided in an electric waveguide, of mechanical vibration in a bar, and of energy levels in quantum physics."
"The paper reviews the properties of periodic and guiding structures which now play an important part in the operation of components, antennas, electron tubes and low-noise amplifiers. An account is first given of dispersive propagation in periodic-loaded lines, showing how the frequency characteristic breaks into pass and stop bands. The formation of forward- and backward-space harmonics and the effect of systematic modification of loading are examined. A description is then given of the various types of surface-wave structures including dielectric rods, dielectric-clad metals, and corrugated surfaces, as well as surface wave instruments and circuits. Practical slow-wave structures such as ladder lines, coupled cavities and helices are finally treated. The survey concludes with a bibliography."
"The propagation of the electromagnetic wave in a gradual transducer is discussed. It is shown that the incident mode and the geometry of the transducer determine the outgoing mode. Inverting this theorem, a method is suggested for the design of the transducer's surface for cases in which the desired modes in the uniform waveguides are given. The application of the method is illustrated in three examples."
"A novel method of tuning a transmission-line type resonator is described. The first-order theory of such a resonator is derived and presented in the form of design curves which indicate an extremely good tuning linearity. Experiments with a resonator designed on this principle agree with theory."
"Formulas based on small aperture and small obstacle theory are presented for the determination of equivalent circuits for symmetrical longitudinal apertures and obstacles. These formulas are then applied to several examples of practical interest, including aperture discontinuities in trough waveguide and an obstacle array of interest to anisotropic radomes."
"It has been known for some time that the secular equation for the TE/sub n0/ modes of a perfectly conducting rectangular waveguide loaded with a transversely magnetized dissipationless full height ferrite slab located against one of the narrow walls of the waveguide admits the possibility of the existence of only a single propagating mode (transporting energy in one direction only). In this paper, it is established that if we admit the existence of a passive dissipationless uniform waveguide supporting only a single propagating mode we are led inescapably to a thermodynamic paradox. A uniqueness theorem is cited to establish that, for the waveguide described above, the paradox is associated with the TE/sub n0/ mode set alone. This conclusion motivates a thorough study of the secular equation for the TE/sub n0/ modes of this waveguide. This study is initiated by an investigation into the properties of the TE/sub n0/ surface waves guided along a plane interface separating a transversely magnetized dissipationless ferrite from free space. It is shown that two oppositely directed surface waves are guided along this interface. These two surface waves are admitted in different finite ranges of the parameter values which never coincide and which may or may not overlap. Each of the two surface waves has both a high- and a low-frequency cutoff and, in general, both a high and a low dc magnetic field cutoff. The propagation constant of one of the surface waves becomes infinite at the low field (high-frequency) cutoff. The next step in the analysis consists of an examination of the behavior of these surface waves on finite thickness ferrite slabs located in different environments. It is shown that when one of the two interfaces bounding the slab approaches a short circuit the infinite propagation constant noted above behaves in a peculiar discontinuous fashion. Next, the TE/sub n0/ mode secular equation of the slab loaded rectangular waveguide is analyzed and information is developed leading to a description of the behavior of the propagation constants of all the propagating TE/sub n0/ modes. This analysis reveals that the possibility of the existence of only a single propagating mode is associated only with the surface wave mode of this waveguide. A resolution for the thermodynamic paradox is proposed based on the discontinuous behavior of one of the infinite propagation constants associated with this surface wave mode. It is shown that with a properly chosen secular equation for the waveguide under consideration there are always an even number of TE/sub n0/ propagating modes, half of which transport energy in one direction, half in the other. This demonstration is based, in part, on an analysis leading to relations between the direction of the power flow associated with a propagating mode and the derivative of its propagation constant with respect to the dc magnetic field."
"Ferromagnetic resonance absorption at high peak power levels has been observed at 1300 mc in yttrium-gadolinium garnets and in a nickel ferrite-aluminate. In agreement with theoretical predictions, the critical field characterizing the onset of nonlinear effects, in a series of yttrium-gadolinium garnet disks of a given shape, was found to be very sensitively dependent on the gadolinium content. Similarly, for samples of a given composition, the critical field strength was sensitively dependent on the shape of the sample in agreement with theoretical predictions. At moderate power levels the susceptibility varies linearly with the square of the RF magnetic field strength over an appreciable range. This result can be understood in terms of an extension of Suhl's theory. The results can be used to predict the high power performance of these materials when used in isolators."
"Resonance experiments have been performed at X-band on spherical samples of polycrystalline yttrium garnet, yttrium-gadolinium garnet, yttrium-holmium garnet and nickel-cobalt ferrite. The RF field strength extended up to 60 Oersted. In the case of yttrium garnet the samples differed considerably in density and hence in Iinewidth. At fairly low power levels the susceptibility at resonance varies linearly with the square of the RF magnetic field strength. At high power levels the susceptibility is inversely proportional to the amplitude of the microwave magnetic field. The \"spin-wave Iinewidth\" Delta H/sub k/ is inferred by extrapolation from the behavior at very high powers. It is found that Delta H/sub k/ is, to a large extent, independent of the Iinewidth Delta H/sub k/ observed by the usual low power experiments. In particular Delta H/sub k/ was found to be essentially the same (approximately 4 Oe) for all yttrium iron garnets (single crystals and polycrystals with linewidth varying between 1.8 Oe and 450 Oe). On the other hand, Delta H/sub k/ increases very rapidly if the yttrium is partially substituted by holmium (Delta H/sub k/~11 Oe for 1 per cent substitution.)"
"In any application of a semiconductor microwave diode, the impedance of the diode cartridge plays a very important role. Two commonly made assumptions, which are quite erroneous, are that 1) the impedance of the diode cartridge consists simply of a shunt capacitance and whisker inductance, and 2) the metal-to-semiconductor junction at microwave frequencies behaves approximately as it does at 10 mc. In this paper it is shown that the impedance of the diode cartridge at microwave frequencies can be measured accurately by substituting a carbon die for the semiconductor."
"The application of a generally neglected theory of microwave detection to the poorly understood problem of metal-to-semiconductor junction behavior at microwave frequencies is discussed. Experimental results are disclosed which support the theory and appear to be the first experimental verification of it. It is shown how the theory predicts that germanium microwave diodes should exercise direct switching action upon microwaves while silicon microwave diodes should not, as had been observed in the past but with no explanation."
"Crystal rectifiers have been used for many years as video detectors in microwave measurements. In most of the applications the detection characteristic at low level is assumed to be square law. It is well known that, in general, this assumption is not justified, particularly if reasonable accuracy is desired. The conditions required to increase the dynamic range over which square law response may be achieved have been investigated experimentally. Results obtained in this laboratory have indicated that a forward bias current of 100 microamperes or more with a low video load resistance made the operation of the crystal closer to the ideal square law over a larger dynamic range."
"A circularly symmetric power divider is described which splits a signal into n equiphase equiamplitude parts where n can be odd or even. The power divider provides isolation between output terminals and approximately matched terminal impedances over about a 20 per cent band. A theory of operation is given which yields the necessary design parameters, and an experimental model is described which has a minimum isolation of -27 db between output terminals, an output VSWR of 1.6, and an input VSWR of 1.2."
"The problem of electromagnetic wave propagation in a system consisting of the two infinitely long concentric sheath helices free space, shown in Fig. 1, may be approached as a boundary value problem. This has been done before for the case of the lowest mode, but the determinantal equation which gives the propagation constants the higher order modes has not been given before. This note describes the analysis which gives the propagation constants for all modes of propagation."
"A junction of two rectangular waveguides which are mutually cross-polarized becomes a magnetically controlled reactive switch when properly loaded by a ferrite rod magnetized longitudinally. It is a special case of a novel type of structure for which we propose the name tetrahedral junction. As a switch, it possesses: 1) very high insertion loss in the reflecting state, ~60 db; 2) loss in the transmitting state which is lower in principle than that attainable in any similar ferrite-waveguide device, <0.1 db; 3) high switching speed-1 mu sec is attainable with conventional circuits and convenient currents; 4) large bandwidth, ~10 per cent; 5) little sensitivity to variations in applied field and saturation magnetization; and 6) small phase and small phase-variations with frequency and applied field in the transmitting-state."
"Saturation in traveling-wave tube amplifiers, that is, the failure of the output to continue to rise as the input power is increased, can occur in several ways. The limit may arise through heating of the RF circuit, or if the circuit can be so made that this does not occur, the ultimate limit is provided by the amount of power that can be carried on the beam; large signal calculations of the behavior under these conditions have been made by several investigators. It has also been observed, however, that the saturation limit is a function of the amount and distribution of loss in the attenuator, and recent calculations, for example by Rowe, include the study of the limiting power output for various values of the loss parameter d."
"During the spring of 1958, a joint decision was reached by the Boston Chapter of the Institute of Radio Engineers and the Administrative Committee of the Professional Group on Microwave Theory and Techniques to hold the 1959 annual meeting in the Boston area."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Harold M. Barlow was born on November 15, 1899, in London, England. After graduating in engineering at University College, London, in 1922, he received the Ph.D. degree in physics in 1924, from the same school. His first academic appointment was as a lecturer in the design of electrical machinery at University College. Since World War II, he has specialized more particularly in high-frequency work. As Superintendent of the Radio Department at the Royal Aircraft Establishment, England, during the war years, he worked with radar, and it was largely as a result of that experience that he became so interested in microwaves. He still tries to maintain contact with the power side of electrical engineering, and as a teacher, discourages specialization except to a limited extent in the final year of the degree course. Professor Barlow is a member of the Council of the British IEE, the British Broadcasting Corporation's Scientific Advisory Committee, and the Radio Research Board."
"Electrical engineering as a technology necessarily embodies applications of physics, and in the microwave branch, a particularly close link exists between the two subjects of study. The phenomenal progress in microwave work has come about as a result of physicist and engineer working side by side, each making his own kind of contribution, much to the benefit of both. Cross fertilization of ideas is always profitable, and in microwaves, perhaps more than in many other things, this has had exceedingly valuable results. The engineers have discovered the need to broaden their approach to problems of the electromagnetic field and to delve much more deeply into matters concerning the behavior of electrical materials in such fields. The high frequencies involved have naturally been a dominant factor in the new work they had to do."
"Equations and curves are presented to predict the frequency bandwidth of coaxial choke couplings in terms of the choke parameters. Choke couplings discussed are those applicable to rotary joints and dc isolation units."
"Although many papers have been published on the subject of multielement transmission lines, the application to practical problems seems rather inconvenient. The author proposes a solution to the general equations which relate the voltage difference between the lines and the mesh current. Under particular conditions, it is shown that only a single type of propagating mode exists. In this case, the solution has been obtained by the so called \"decomposition method\", i.e., assuming several virtual two element transmission lines in lieu of the existing multielement transmission line. The problem has been solved by means of the resolved superposed virtual lines taking into account the existing boundary condition."
"A method is described for measuring the relative phase shift of microwave devices, such as traveling-wave tubes, which utilizes the serrodyne technique to transfer the measurements into the audio-frequency range. The method is used to measure the phase shift incidental to the variation of the dc potentials applied to the several electrodes of a 2- to 4-kmc traveling-wave tube. This method is particularly useful in coaxial systems, where accurately calibrated phase shifters (and attenuators without phase shift) are not available."
"Analysis and experimental verification of a class of resonant fields, called ghost-modes, occurring in waveguide dielectric windows are presented. Numerical solutions for a simple geometry are given through universal curves. Knowledge about ghost-modes has importance to designers of high-power windows. It also leads to a measuring technique for dielectric constants through a frequency measurement."
"This paper describes a technique for temperature compensation of coaxial cavities by controlling the capacitance between the end of the center conductor and an end plate across the outer conductor. A formula is derived for this capacitance which is verified experimentally. Supplemental design data are also obtained experimentally."
"This paper describes a graphical method for measuring the real and imaginary parts of the dielectric constant epsilon/epsilon/sub 0/ = epsilon' - j epsilon\" of materials at microwave frequencies. The method is based on the network approach to dielectric measurements proposed by Oliner and Altschuler in which the dielectric sample fills a section of transmission line or waveguide. In contrast to their method, the network representing the dielectric sample is analyzed in terms of the bilinear transformation Gamma'=(aGamma+b)/(cGamma+d); ad-bc=4. The analysis proceeds from the geometric properties of the image circle in the r plane obtained by terminating the output line in a calibrated sliding short. The technique described retains the desirable features of the network approach but avoids the necessity of measuring both scattering coefficients. As a result the procedure is more direct and, in the case of the TEM configuration, leads to an entirely graphical solution in which the complex dielectric constant can be read from a Smith chart overlay."
"This paper presents theoretical performance calculations of a novel form of wide-band strip-line Magic-T that uses two dual strip-line band-pass filters. When all four ports are terminated in the same impedance, the VSWR at each port is less than 1.47 over a 2:1 frequency band, while the isolation between opposite ports is greater than 20 db over this frequency band."
"With the assistance of a mathematical theorem demonstrated by Eaton in a companion paper, it is shown rigorously, in the limit of small impedance transformation, that the familiar binomial impedance transformer, consisting of equal quarter-wave steps, is the shortest, monotonic, maximally-flat, stepped, transmission-line transformer having steps commensurate in length with the midband guide-wavelength, and coincident zeros at the midband frequency. It is shown how this theorem places very severe limitations on any effort to improve on the performance of a quarter-wave transformer by increasing the number of its impedance steps without a corresponding increase in its length."
"A proof is given of a purely mathematical theorem on the polynomial of lowest degree with positive coefficients having a prescribed root of unity as a multiple root. H. J. Riblet has conjectured the theorem below. In the preceding paper, he applies his theorem to optimum impedance transformer design."
"The principle of complementarity is applied to the slot transmission line. The properties of a dual circuit are investigated. The pairs of several possible duals for a given configuration are correlated and new quantities are defined for use with different types of circuits. A complete parallelism between the two-wire line and the two-slot line is established for the ideal cases and is extended by approximation to include the practical cases. Measurements were made with a two-slot transmission line and its associated probing system. The method of testing the line for balance is discussed. The transverse distribution of the longitudinal current and the attenuation constant were measured. The analogy between the steady-state field in a conducting medium and the electrostatic field in a dielectric is investigated. The expressions for the constants of a two-slot line are given in a form that permits a ready evaluation from experimental data obtained with the electrolytic tank. The measured results are compared with theoretical values."
"The design and operation of a microwave Fabry-Perot interferometer at wavelengths around 6 mm is described. This uses reflectors which are simple, easy to make, and which are capable of scaling for operation at short wavelengths in the ultramicrowave region. With power reflection coefficients around 0.999, very sharp fringes and Q values around 100,000 were obtained on the interferometer. Effects of diffraction in the interferometer are considered, and wavelength measurements with this particular interferometer indicate that accuracies of 0.04 per cent are obtained without any diffraction correction. Advantages of such an interferometer for ultramicrowaves are that the component parts are large compared with the wavelength, the effects of diffraction decrease with the wavelength, and the problem of maintaining a high Q with a single mode of propagation and a structure of adequate size is made much easier. Such an interferometer forms the cavity resonator for ultramicrowaves. It can thus be used for such conventional purposes as wavelength measurements, wavelength spectral analysis, dielectric constant, and loss measurements, or as the cavity resonator for frequency stabilization, or as the cavity resonator for a millimeter- or submillimeter-wavelength maser."
"The present work is concerned with the boundary conditions required to calculate the ohmic losses occurring in metallic wedges under the influence of electromagnetic waves which are sinusoidal in time. The validity of the surface impedance condition used in calculating waveguide wall losses is examined carefully, and a \"modified\" surface impedance condition, which can be applied to wedge problems in which the perfectly conducting solution is known, is developed. A simple waveguide having a circular cross section, a sector of which is occupied by a metal wedge, is used as an example. The tangential magnetic field variations along the surface of the wedge are shown graphically, demonstrating, near the tip of the wedge, a large deviation from the tangential magnetic field of the perfectly conducting solution."
"The attenuation constants for both directions of propagation in a rectangular waveguide loaded with a small slab of ferrite are calculated by means of perturbation theory. The maximum attainable ratio of reverse to forward attenuation is found to be inversely proportional to the square of the bandwidth, with a constant of proportionality that is dependent on the shape of the ferrite slab and the proximity of cutoff. The figure of merit is largest for the case of a thin ferrite slab magnetized perpendicular to the plane of the slab. It is shown that a significant increase in the figure of merit can be obtained by proper use of the anisotropy of grain-oriented materials or single crystals."
"Microwave measurement techniques can be analyzed more simply by using signal flow graphs instead of the customary scattering matrices to describe the microwave networks used in the measuring system. This is because the flow graphs of individual networks are simply joined together when the networks are cascaded and the solution for the system can be written down by inspection of the over-all flow graph by application of the nontouching loop rule. This paper reviews the method of setting up flow graphs of microwave networks and the rule for their solution. A single directional-coupler reflectometer system for measuring the reflection coefficient of a load is then analyzed by this method. The analysis shows how auxiliary tuners can be used to cancel residual error terms in the measurement of the magnitude of the reflection coefficient at a particular frequency. The analysis also shows how an additional tuner can be used to measure the phase angle of the reflection coefficient. These reflectometer techniques are particularly useful in the measurement of very small reflections."
"In recent years, partially-filled transmission lines have been used to improve the characteristics of various ferrite and garnet devices. This paper presents a generalized outline for determining the approximate effective guide wavelength and characteristic impedance of two types of (dielectric-loaded) partially-filled transmission line. The results are used to determine the geometries required for the design of optimum stepped transmission line transformers. The stepped transitions are designed to yield a Tchebycheff-type response for any given bandwidth. The measured results for stepped transitions in partially filled coaxial line and partially filled double-ridge wavegnide are presented. The data are found to approximate the theory closely."
"The use of an ammonia-beam maser in a portable frequency standard requires a frequency divider which can be transistorized. A divider which uses no microwave tubes and hence one that can be transistorized is described. An ammonia-maser-controlled signal generator used to tuneup the divider is also described. It is found that the use of a parametric diode frequency multiplier substantially improves the lock-in performance of the divider. Some data are given for comparing the performance of the maser frequency divider with and without the parametric diode frequency multiplier."
"This bibliography is restricted to books and periodical articles published prior to October, 1959. No attempt has been made to include the voluminous material to be found in technical reports, patents or similar sources."
"Leo Young, the author of \"Tables for Cascaded Homogeneous Quarter- Wave Transformers,\" which appeared on pages 233-237 in the April, 1959 issue of these Transactions, has requested that the following revisions be made in his paper."
"Since the split coaxial type balun was developed, it has been widely utilized as a microwave radiator with dipole, and a duplexer of television transmitting unit for its superior working capacity. There are several papers on the analytical theory of this balancing unit. But, strictly speaking, there are still some points remaining to be rescrutinized, such as the radiator receiving the effect of the split coaxial and its lines from the earth."
"The nonreciprocal transmission characteristics of rectangular and cylindrical waveguides containing ferrites have been extensively studied and utilized in the construction of microwave phase shifters, gyrators, circulators, and isolators. This note concerns the measurement of the nonreciprocal attenuation produced by ferrite in single-ridge waveguide transmitting dominant mode. In particular, three types of isolators in ridge waveguide are investigated including resonance-absorption isolators, field-displacement isolators, and isolators operating at low-biasing magnetic fields. Fig. 1 shows the dimensions of the single-ridge waveguide used in the measurement."
"A considerable number of frequency regulation systems for voltage tunable sources such as klystrons are presently available. The most prominent of these is the pound Regulator which provides an excellent stable source. Perhaps the only disadvantages of the Pound system are the initial cost and the rather critical adjustments necessary when starting up."
"During recent years a substantial effort has been made to obtain special ferrites for microwave applications. The authors opinion is that in many cases this effort was not supported by real necessity and that many existing commercial materials may reveal surprising microwave properties after a persistent and careful preparation of working conditions."
"In considering the propagation of electromagnetic waves along helical conductors using the Tape Helix approximation, it is well known that the solution contains an infinite number of space harmonics."
"The effect of small periodic changes in the physical dimensions of closed periodic structures can be investigated using the perturbation theory developed by Muller and later by Slater."
"Bending waveguide and metal tubing is very often a difficult and time-consuming task. Low melting temperature alloys are at times difficult to remove from waveguide and tubing. The piece to be bent may be filled with water which is then frozen by dry ice, liquid nitrogen, or by a deep freeze. In some applications where the piece to be bent is integral with a larger system, a block of dry ice may be held against it to freeze only the portion of water around the section to be bent. The use of these low temperatures causes not only the water to freeze into quite small crystals (which act like a sand packing), but also prevents the ice from melting because of the pressure of bending."
"In the course of investigations into the properties of various surface wave structures, 1 it became necessary to investigate hybrid modes on dielectric cylinders for modes of order n, where n >1. The case n = 1 has received extensive treatment in the literature."
"It is well known that in symmetric hybrid junctions such as the short-slot, branched-guide, and transvar types, the signals in the main and auxiliary guides are in phase quadrature. Another property of fully symmetric lossless hybrids is that if all the arms are matched, the amplitudes of the waves traveling in the reverse direction in the main and auxiliary guides are equal. A proof is given below."
"The use of a resonant circuit will permit raising the strength of electromagnetic fields to values considerably higher than that available directly from a transmitter. In the usual resonant cavity, standing waves exist which may raise some doubt as to the usefulness of this method for testing certain components."
"The Reggia-Spencer phase shifter has been the subject of a great deal of investigation because of the large amounts of phase shift possible with a relatively simple construction."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The continued research effort in the microwave field is reflected by the number of papers, which is as great as in any previous year. The single topic attracting the largest number of contributions has been that of waveguides for long-distance communication. This is partly the result of a very successful International Convention organized by the Institution of Electrical Engineers in London during January, 1959. To some extent it also indicates the amount of work which has been proceeding during the last few years and which now suggests that operational waveguide communication links may be in service within the foreseeable future."
"During 1959, the main progress in Western Europe was concerning further development of types \"O\" and \"M\" carcinotrons and studies about quantum devices. Nevertheless, other subjects have not been neglected."
"This report on advances in theory, experiments, and applications of the microwave field is based on papers appearing in the Journal of the Institute of Electrical Communication Engineers of Japan, which is the most widespread and well-esteemed journal in the communication and electronics field in Japan. Advances in the realms of microwave sources, detectors, transmission lines, measurements, radiation, and propagation are mentioned."
"Two mechanical (servo-driven) phase shifters were developed in response to systems requirements of low torque, compactness, octave bandwidth, and linear relation between mechanical motion and phase shift. One phase shifter relies upon the axial motion of a dielectric slug through a helix wound from modified miniature rigid coaxial cable. The second design consists of a 3-db coupler with ganged movable shorts on two ports. The helix design displayed phase shift of 720 degrees at 3 kmc and linearity to within +- 3 degrees. The coupler design is capable of achieving 720 degrees phase shift at 3 kmc and linearity within +-2 degrees. A precision measuring facility (phase bridge) was developed for the purpose of determining the electrical performance of the phase shifters. A brief analysis is included to illustrate the prediction of maximum possible errors in the phase bridge and the phase shifters, in terms of transmission line parameters."
"A novel technique for the measurement of dielectric and magnetic properties of a homogeneous isotropic medium in the range of approximately 3 to 100 kmc is described. An accuracy of /l.chemc/ 1 per cent is possible in the determination of permittivity or permeability in those cases where the loss tangent is sulliciently small. The measuring structure is a resonator made up of a right circular cyndrical dielectric rod placed between two parallel conducting plates. For measurement of permittivity two or more resonant TE/sub onl/ mode frequencies are determined whereas for the measurement of permeability two or more resonant TM/sub onl/ mode frequencies are determined. The dielectric or magnetic properties are computed from the resonance frequencies, structure dimensions, and unloaded Q. Since the loss tangent is inversely proportional to the unloaded Q of the structure, the precision to which Q is measured determines the accuracy of the loss tangent."
"Expressions are derived for the noise factor of a frequency mixing circuit under two different operating conditions: 1) single-sideband operation with input only in a band of frequencies at omega/sub 1/; and 2) double-sideband radiometer operation with incoherent inputs in the bands both at frequency omega/sub 1/ and at omega/sub 2/=omega/sub 3/-omega/sub 1/. In both cases, the output is taken only at omega/sub 1/. It is shown that the noise figure for radiometer double-sideband operation is not always 3 db less than for single-sideband operation. It is also shown that it is possible to obtain an output signal-to-noise ratio which is greater than the input signal-to-noise ratio for coherent double-sideband operation. Methods are analyzed for measuring the effective noise temperature of this circuit by using a broad-band noise source."
"The paper reviews the various methods of duplexing at microwave frequencies. General principles, including the use of passive and solid-state devices, are first discussed. The characteristics of gaseous-discharge duplexing tubes of both self- and externally-excited types are examined and data for typical examples given. The various arrangements of discharge tube duplexers and methods of measuring their performance are described. The survey concludes with a bibliography."
"The power-voltage, power-current and voltage-current impedances for the elliptical waveguide for the fundamental mode (/sub e/H/sub 1/ mode) are obtained by two different methods. The first method consists of using the exact fields inside a perfectly conducting elliptical pipe. Numerical results were obtained by numerical integration of the integrals involving Mathieu functions by the Gaussian Quadratures method by a digital computer. In the second method approximate fields which satisfy the boundary conditions were used. By this approximate method, actual expressions for the impedances are obtained as a function of minor to major diameter ratio with no need of numerical integration. The actual expressions for the impedance obtained by the approximate method give the impedance for elliptical waveguide within six per cent. On the basis of comparison with the exact numerical solution the expressions for the approximate impedance give the impedance of elliptical waveguide within three per cent if they are scaled by 1.03."
"A section of transmission line partially closed off at each end constitutes a cavity wavemeter. If fixed in length, it may be used as a reference cavity; or if tunable, it maybe used to determine frequency. Such a cavity is here treated systematically as a lossy transmission line, with the two end couplings either lossless or symmetrical. The analysis is by means of the transfer or wave matrix. Various expressions are derived which have previously not been obtained, or for which only approximate expressions have been derived from \"equivalent circuits.\""
"The scattered field is given as a series of cylinder functions. If the ferrite cylinder is magnetized along its axis the scattering pattern becomes asymmetrical about the direction of incidence. Approximation formulas for the thin cylinder and the far field zone are given. It is shown that in the first approximation the amplitude is an even function and the phase angle of the field is an odd function of the scattering angle. Exact numerical results have been obtained with a Univac digital computer. By a suitable arrangement of the ferrite cylinders, a unidirectional pattern can be obtained which is controlled by the applied magnetic dc field."
"Reflex klystrons (type 2K25) were used as regenerative amplifiers for the X-band. Two 2K25 reflex klystron amplifiers were cascaded with a coupling circuit which contained a variable phase shifter. The effect of the phase adjustment was investigated in comparison with another coupling scheme which did not contain the phase shifter. The phase adjustment in the coupling circuit gave the amplifier system high gain (more than 50 db max.), and a reasonably low noise figure (8 db-17.5 db). High sensitivity was obtained. Proper phase adjustment of the two stage reflex klystron amplifier could give more than twice the gain in db of the single stage amplifier because of the regenerative feedback between stages. The linearity and dynamic range were considerably improved by the phase adjustment. But the frequency bandwidth became narrow (2 mc), and improvement in stability and directivity was not significant."
"The properties of TE modes on a dielectric loaded trough waveguide have been investigated. In the case of the dominant mode of this line (TE/sub 20/), families of design curves giving the field distribution, guide wavelength, power handling capability, wall losses, and dielectric losses as a function of operating wavelength, waveguide dimensions and dielectric constant are presented. For a loosely bound wave, the losses are comparable to those of conventional rectangular waveguide and the power handling capability is an order of magnitude greater. The apparatus and procedure used to measure guide wavelength, rate of field decay in the transverse direction, and attenuation are described. The measured performance is in close agreement with the theoretically predicted characteristics."
"The principle of coupling of modes is used to compute the phase constant in a uniform waveguide Iilled with two ditferent dielectric materials. The natural modes of two hypothetical waveguides filled with the different dielectrics are computed. The propagation of the combined system is computed by considering the coupling between the two sets of modes. Comparison is made between the approximate theory and an exact theory."
"R. C. Johnson, author of \"Design of Linear Double Tapers in Rectangular Waveguides,\" which appeared on pp. 374-378 of the July 1959 issue of these Transactions has brought the following corrections to the attention of the Editor."
"Energy relations for a lumped nonlinear reactance excited by two different fundamental frequencies were derived by J. M. Manley and H. E. Rowe. R. H. Pautell developed the energy relations in a nonlinear resistive element. Furthermore, H. A. Haus extended the Manley-Rowe's energy relations to a nonlinear Iossless medium excited by two fundamental frequencies. This paper extends the Manley-Rowe relations in the case of a lumped nonlinear element (lossless reactance and resistive element) and nonlinear lossless reciprocal medium excited by k numbers of fundamental frequencies, wherein the extended relations consist of k independent equations."
"In microwave measurements, frequent use is made of \"two channel\" or multiple channel systems, in order to obtain isolation from amplitude fluctuations in the generator output and/or various other benefits. In such systems it is generally required that the signal delivered to one channel be independent of changes in loading, etc., in the second channel, and a common problem is that of achieving or determining that an adequate degree of isolation exists between the different channels. It is the purpose of this letter to describe briefly procedures for obtaining and recognizing this condition."
"Recent applications of directional couplers with auxiliary tuners for accurate VSWR and phase shift measurements have made possible a microwave impedance meter capable of high accuracy. It is similar to some bridges in that one obtains an initial detector null and a final null, before and after connecting the unknown. Both the magnitude and phase angle of the reflection coefficient of the unknown are determined in this operation, and these can be made direct reading if desired. The principle of operation is as follows."
"In his article above, Hudson raises the question: \"What length of line of what impedance will match a given impedance?\" He states, \"Conventional charts do not answer this question explicitly.\" This problem can be solved on the \"conventional\" Smith Chart explicitly without trial-and-error, by the following method. If A and B are two quite general impedances, the matched condition requires that A be transformed into B*, the complex conjugate of B."
"When a passive coupling network, such as a waveguide, transmission line, matching filter, etc., is used to connect a source to a receiver, it is apparent that it will contribute noise to the output because of its Iossiness."
"An electronically tunable microwave receiver which uses an oscillating backward wave amplifier driving a crystal detector has been described previously. This receiver has the advantages of large dynamic range and good rejection of unwanted signals, but has the disadvantage that its frequency response can be no better than that of its crystal detector. Since a variation in sensitivity of greater than 3 db over the tuning range of 8 to 12 kmc would seriously lower its usefulness as a spectrum display device, the restrictions on the crystal detector performance are quite severe."
"Laboratory measurements at microwave frequencies very often require the use of a sensitive detector with broad-band characteristics. A crystal mount has been developed with a nearly uniform response from 10.5 kmc to 20.0 kmc using coaxial crystals type 1N26 or 1NT78A. The best over-all sensitivity is obtained with 1N78A crystals, although the 1N26 crystals are more sensitive from 17 to 20 kmc."
"Ferroelectric substance has been utilized as nonlinear substance in parametric amplifiers. However, all of these have been done at low-frequency regions. A surface-wave parametric amplifier employing-ferro-electric substance in the microwave region has been proposed."
"Several types of reflective ferrite switches have recently been described in the literature. These have typically made use either of the Faraday rotation effect or of a waveguide cutoff induced by a transversely-magnetized ferrite slab. A different and very simple type of switch, which exhibits similar reflective behavior, may also be obtained by the use of a short section of heavily-loaded (or filled) coax, stripline, or waveguide."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"1960 IRE International Convention - Photographs of the PGMTT Administrative Committee Meeting"
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The noise properties of a two-cavity CW 3-cm klystron oscillator are discussed with the purpose of studying the noise contribution located close to the center frequency in the audiofrequency range. A system permitting measurements to be made of the mean square frequency deviation is described. Comparisons are made indicating the noise performance of the klystron oscillator when operated under air-cooled and water-cooled conditions."
"The design of uniformly dispersive quarter-wave transformers is a well explored subject. Common examples are rectangular waveguide E-plane transformers, in which the a dimension is kept constant. In this paper, it is shown that the performance of conventional quarter-wave transformers of a single section can always be improved by making the middle section less dispersive than the input and output waveguides, and a formula for the optimum a dimension is given. The theory was verified experimentally. In this instance, the improved transformer measured 50 per cent more bandwidth than did the conventional one, and was 25 per cent shorter besides."
"A quarter-wave transformer not only changes impedance levels, but will also behave as a band-pass filter. In practice, however, band-pass filters are usually required to terminate in equal input and output impedances. They often consist of several direct-coupled cavities, which are similar to transformers whose impedance steps have been replaced by reactive obstacles. It is demonstrated how one can synthesize a quarter-wave transformer, and then \"distort\" it to obtain a direct coupled cavity filter with a predictable performance. This is illustrated and confirmed by numerical examples. The method is particularly convenient to use in reverse. The quarter-wave transformer prototype is easily derived for a direct-coupled cavity filter which has already been designed by another approximate method, and thus gives an independent evaluation of its performance. If necessary, the filter can then be redesigned, as illustrated in this paper."
"The design and development of a medium CW power level, 1.57:1 bandwidth, quadruply-ridged circular waveguide Faraday rotator and two high CW power, 2:1 bandwidth, double ridge rectangular waveguide isolators are discussed. The rotator is designed in quadruply-ridged circular waveguide with a ferrite configuration somewhat different from that proposed by other investigators. It can be made to exhibit broadband rotation and large rotation per unit length of ferrite section, and maybe used in most medium CW power level applications. Forty-five degree rotation is achieved over the 7.0-kMc to 11.0-kMc band. The isolators operate from 2.0 kMc to 4.0 kMc in DR-37 waveguide and from 3.8 kMc to 7.6 kMc in D-34 waveguide respectively. The reverse to forward wave attenuation ratio exceeds 10.0 db to 1.0 db for both isolators."
"Theoretical and experimental radiation patterns are given in spectral form for the thermal radiation from a cylindrical discharge column which is adjacent to a long thin slot in a metallic plane. A spatial distribution is predicted which exhibits interference minima and maxima when the length of the slot and the wavelength of the emission are the same order of magnitude. The analysis is based on Maxwell's equations and the Leontovich-Rytov distributed source generalization of Nyquist's noise formula. Fraunhofer pattern measurements are presented in which an argon source is used to excite slots of 7.3pi and 9.5pi radians in length. Data are also presented to show the effects of variations in the pressure and the dc current of the discharge. The pattern measuring apparatus is a Dicke radiometer, having the following characteristics: frequency 9200 Mc, bandwidth to the detector 16 mc, modulation frequency 1000 cps, and residual noise level 0.3 rms°K. An interference phenomenon is predicted by the theory and demonstrated by an experiment, even though the source excitation is spatially distributed and essentially uncorrelated in time and in space. The patterns are not even approximately Lambertian, e.g., a thin slot of 9.5pi radians exhibits a pattern having nine relative maxima in 180°, with the maximum emission at 63° from the normal."
"Variational techniques are used in analyzing periodic \"cold\" microwave structures for the angular frequency, omega, as a function of assumed phase shift per periodic cell. Two variational expressions are given: one for omega in terms of the E- and H-fields, and one for k² = omega²µ epsilon in terms of the E-field. For structures with relatively light coupling between cells, the trial fields to be used with the variational expressions are composed of closed cavity modes, phase shifted by phi radians from cell to cell. Both variational expressions yield determinantal equations for k²(phi) which agree with equations previously derived from a mode coupling point of view. One form of an equivalent lumped circuit is given to represent the structure within one of its pass bands. Curves compare the variational-mode coupling expression for k²(phi) of a periodically lumped loaded transmission line with exact expressions."
"This paper determines the capacitance, inductance, and characteristic impedance of rectangular lines by the method of conformal transformation. In practical applications, such lines may be used as transmission links of RF energy, as impedance-transforming sections, or as components in electron tubes. Formulas are given for the calculation of the parameters of rectangular lines having the following characteristics: 1) The inner conductor may have varying thickness compared with the depth of the outer conductor. 2) The axes of the conductors may coincide or may be displaced with respect to each other. 3) The edges of the inner conductor may be rounded to lessen the electrical stress occurring at sharp corners. Excellent agreement has been obtained between the calculated results and those found by use of the relaxation method, by direct measurement of models, and by electrolytic tank measurement."
"Transmission characteristics of a broad-band circular polarizer consisting of anisotropic dielectric plates are rigorously analyzed. The transmitted wave is formulated in terms of the incident wave including interface reflections. The influence of the interface reflections on the axial ratio of the polarization is numerically shown vs frequency. Frequency dependence of the power transmission ratio is also obtained. From the above analysis, it can be concluded that a circular polarizer of this type is promising as a new broad-band circular polarizer."
"Large signal analysis of a harmonic generator using a semiconductor diode reveals a larger possible efficiency than a similar small signal analysis. As higher harmonic numbers are reached, large signal analysis becomes increasingly more important in predicting the maximum conversion efficiency. It is shown that there exists an optimum value for the diode bias voltage and an optimum coupling of the load and generator to the diode, and that the diode operating voltage should almost drive the diode into conduction. An expression is derived for the maximum conversion efficiency for any harmonic, and it is shown that the conversion loss increases with increasing harmonic number, approximately 2.9 db per n for large harmonic numbers in a typical case."
"This paper describes an X-band microwave ring switch employing a junction of new design. The insertion loss is less than 1/4 db over the design band of 9.0-9.6 kmc; this low loss was obtained through the use of a coupling junction which is designated the offset ring-switch junction. A physical description, the electrical characteristics of the switch, and a qualitative theoretical discussion of the junction are included."
"Now that the precursory period following the solid-state parametric amplifier invention has given way to an era of determined effort to reduce to practice some of the early, optimistic predictions, practical limitations setting an upper bound to the performance of this ingenious communications device have become apparent. In this paper, two such limitations are discussed: First, for a given diode Q and junction geometry, there exists a noninfinite idler frequency, which determines the lowest radar noise temperature. Second, because of its extreme noisiness the reverse-break-down current limits the maximum capacitance swing at both extremes and consequently the minimum noise performance. It is suggested that in certain cases refrigeration may be a partial remedy to both limitations."
"A theoretical and experimental study of the launching of TE surface wave modes on dielectric loaded parallel plane and trough waveguides has been performed. The source is a linear transverse current filament perpendicular to and extending across the space between the parallel side walls. Families of curves are presented, which show the bidirectional Iaunchlng efficiencies for the dominant TE modes of these two transmission lines as a function of dielectric constant, dielectric slab thickness, and current filament location. Measured bidirectional efficiencies are compared to the theoretically predicted values. Measured unidirectional launching efficiencies as high as 97 per cent were obtained for the case where a short circuit is located on one side of the current filament."
"A new semiconductor device is proposed for use as an amplitude modulator for microwave transmission. The principle of action depends upon the increase of absorption with an increase of conductivity caused by the injection of excess minority carriers. Experiments conducted at 9600 Mc indicate little or no phase and frequency modulation. The mechanism of the modulation action and the device design are discussed here."
"The loaded and unloaded Q of a resonant ring circuit are derived on the basis of the fundamental definition. Simple experiments are described to measure Q/sub 0/, Q/sub L/, and the ring power gain without additional coupling to the ring. A number of graphs are given which are useful for these measurements."
"Ferrite isolators deteriorate at high microwave power levels due to the gyromagnetic saturation phenomena described by Suhl. The onset of this deterioration is particularly detrimental to isolator performance when the main and subsidiary resonances coincide. At microwave frequencies the coincidence effect can generally be avoided if thin transversely magnetized ferrite slabs are used. However, at frequencies below 1 kMc, the finite slab thickness can con tribute to main-subsidiary resonance coincidence unless care is taken to choose the proper length and width dimensions of the slab. The following calculations specify the ferrite slab shape needed to avoid this coincidence in UHF ferrite isolators."
"Measurement of the line width of a ferromagnetic resonance curve using the now well-known cavity perturbation technique offers some difficulty in the case of very narrow line width samples. Because of their large magnetic susceptibility, such samples produce a large effective filling factor with respect to the cavity."
"The impedance of crystal diodes is known to depend on the applied bias voltage. This has suggested the use of diodes as switching elements in the control of microwave signal transmission. In the simplest form, the diode switch consists of a transmission line which is shunted by a diode. Coaxial cables as well as waveguides have been used for the transmission lines that are shunted by point-contact and p-i-n diodes. Slab line or coaxial switches where a diode is inserted in series with the center conductor of the line have also been developed."
"A simple method of polishing Yttrium-iron-garnet spheres which produces samples of fractional oersted linewidths has been employed at the Air Force Cambridge Research Center. The technique consists of \"hand-polishing\" the crystal spheres in diamond pastes and aluminum oxide powders of diminishing grit sizes. This method significantly increases, both by greater pres-sure and efficiency of abrasive contact, the rate of removing material from the surface of the sample, which is fundamental in the polishing process."
"A cavity with two independently tunable modes in the 4- to 9-kMc frequency range was needed for experiments in pararnagnetic relaxation. It had to be small enough to fit inside a liquid helium dewar and had to possess a region of approximately uniform RF magnetic field common to both modes over part of its volume."
"The practical feasibility of constructing magnetically tunable broad-tuning range microwave filters using single crystal yttriumiron-garnet resonators was demonstrated in a recent paper. Experimental results were presented on one- and two- resonator filters which can be tuned by varying a dc magnetic field bias over a full waveguide bandwidth and greater, at the same time maintaining an insertion loss performance which is comparable to mechanically-tuned cavity filters. The crucial parameter of the resonant elements in a band-pass filter is the unloaded Q, Q/sub u/. With a spherical single crystal of yttrium-iron-garnet the Q/sub u/ decreases with frequency below X-band frequencies reaching very low values at frequencies around 2000 Mc."
"The concept of a radial transmission line is frequently used in the description of such devices as cylindrical cavity resonators and horn radiators. An approach to the prob-lem of determining the electric and magnetic fields in the radial line has been to solve Maxwell's equations in component form with appropriate boundary conditions. While the following derivation yields nothing new, it does, however, have the advantages of being simple and of requiring a minimum of guess work as compared to other methods of solving this problem."
"The theory of surface waves on plane dielectric slabs has been presented by Plummer and Hansen. Additional numerical results are shown in Figs. 1 and 2 for the lowest order TM and TE modes that can exist on a grounded dielectric slab. The slab has thickness d, and a relative dielectric constant of 4. It is separated by an air gap of thickness a from the ground plane. c/v represents the ratio of the velocity of light in free space and the phase velocity of the surface wave. By image theory, these modes (TM/sub 0/ and TE/sub 1/) can also exist on a symmetrical, three-layer, air-core sandwich to which the given numerical data also apply."
"In his letter J.M. Smith states that in a fully symmetric lossless hybrid where all arms are matched, the amplitudes of the waves traveling in the reverse direction in the main and auxiliary guides are equal. To allow for the existence of the reflected waves this theorem should read: \"In a slightly imperfect symmetric hybrid with matched loads on the output ports the amplitude of the reflected wave at the input port is equal to the amplitude of the wave at the isolated port.\""
"Bethe was the first to calculate the induced electric and magnetic dipole moments if a plane wave falls upon a circular hole in an infinite plane screen. The corresponding complementary problem of a circular disk can then be solved using Babinet's principle. In some recent experimental work on circular disks in a rectangular waveguide large discrepancies between experimental and theoretical results were found when Bethe's theory was used particularly for disks, where ka>0.5 (a=radius of the disks, k =2µ/lambda). Bouwkamp has shown that Bethe's results can be obtained by using a first order approximation for the surface current distribution on the disk. Following the same procedures, a sixth order approximation in (ka) for normal incidence and a third order approxination for oblique incidence has been found. The detailed results will be presented in a future paper. Here only the expressions for the electric and magnetic dipole moments will be given."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A method for design of band-pass microwave filters is described that combines the image and insertion-loss points of view to give an approximate design method having simplicity, but also high precision. This method is applicable for filter designs ranging from narrow to very wide bandwidths (2 to 1 or more). The desired insertion loss characteristic is obtained by use of a lumped-element, Tchebycheff, or maximally flat (or other) low-pass prototype. With the aid of the concept of impedance inverters, the prototype is converted into a cascade of symmetrical (but differing) sections. The image properties of symmetrical sections of the band-pass microwave filter structure are then related to those of corresponding sections of the prototype. Straightforward design equations are given for filters using short-circuited or open-circuited stubs, and also for filters using parallel-coupled lines. Mapping functions are derived that permit accurate prediction of the microwave filter cutoff characteristic from that of the prototype. The responses of a number of filter designs were computed, and a Tchebycheff filter with a 2.2 to 1 band-width was built and tested. The reponses of all of the filter designs were in close agreement with the prescribed characteristics, and the accuracy of the mapping functions was verified."
"The requirements for the RF system of the Cambridge Electron Accelerator are investigated and the choice of the major parameters of the system is discussed. The strongly coupled waveguide cavity system is analyzed and the performance of the system with various types of imperfections is calculated."
"The strongly coupled multicavity synchrotron system proposed for the 6-bev Cambridge Electron Accelerator operates at 475 Mc and, because of its large size, presents complex problems of assembly and tuning. To achieve a better understanding of the characteristics of the system, a scaled model operating at 9000 Mc was constructed. The work was undertaken in two stages; first a simple single-cavity ring was studied and later a more complicated double-cavity ring. An account is given of the design of cavities and waveguide links of variable electrical length, and instrumentation devised for various measurements is described. This is followed by experimental data which were in good agreement with theoretical predictions. Recommendations arising from the model study for the assembly and tuning of the 475-Mc system are put forward."
"A field displacement isolator in WR-159 rectangular waveguide consisting of a full height ferrite slab having a resistive film on one face is treated analytically. The resultant transcendental equation was programmed for a computer and values of the propagation constant found in the frequency range 5.90 to 6.45 kMc for various film resistivities. Two TE modes are found to exist whose relative behavior depends on the resistivity of the film. Reasonably close experimental verification of the results was obtained. for the total attenuation and for the predicted E-field distributions by E-field probe tests. Additional attenuation above that predicted by the theory for a single mode is observed as a result of an interference at the end of the ferrite. A partial height ferrite slab isolator was subjected to E-field probe tests. The field distributions were found to be similar to the full height case. Here, also, additional attenuation is obtained at some frequencies as a result of an interference."
"Microwave filters are limited in their power-handling capacity by high fields generated inside the filter. Simple formulas are derived here for the peak fields inside each cavity of a direct-coupled-cavity filter at any frequency. The computed peak fields in each cavity of a three-cavity, a four-cavity, and a six-cavity filter as a function of frequency are reproduced up to several harmonics. Inside the pass band, the internal fields are generally minimum at center frequency, rising to sharp peaks just outside the pass band. Phase characteristics were also computed, and their relation to the internal field amplitudes is explained."
"The phase difference between the incident and transmitted waves at the input and output ports, respectively, of a two-arm waveguide junction in a reflection free system is a characteristic of the waveguide junction and is defined as the \"phase shift.\" The difference between the phase shift in a reflection free system and the \"change of phase\" observed in a system which is not reflection free will be termed mismatch error. The mismatch error depends not only on the reflections present in the system but also on the choice of the wave used as the reference wave in a phase measurement. Similar considerations hold for the measurements of variation of phase shift and the observed change of phase in adjustable components. A formal scattering matrix analysis is used to derive expressions for phase relationships of the wave amplitudes for a two-arm waveguide junction in a system with reflections. The results of this analysis are used to evaluate mismatch error for different choices of reference waves. Two techniques of variation of phase shift measurements are analyzed. Graphs of the limits of mismatch error in a commonly used method of measurement are presented."
"This paper describes an accurate and convenient technique for measuring the match of a crystal mixer. Use is made of the fact that with a proper RF drive level, the fundamental conductance of a mixer crystal may be made equal to the optimum source conductance of the crystal for mixer operation, The required drive level depends on certain crystal parameters and on the image frequency termination of the mixer. Design curves are given which simplify the determination of the proper RF drive level for a wide range of crystal parameters and their condition of image frequency termination."
"The characteristics of a low-pressure, hot cathode arc discharge have been studied and applied to microwave switching applications. The combination of rapid plasma build-up, low ignition voltage, and fairly rapid plasma decay, offers promise for the development of broad-band, high-power microwave switches which can be closed in tenths of microseconds and opened in a few microseconds or less. Experimental results on some particular switches are reported."
"Formulas are given for the even- and odd-mode characteristic impedances of shielded coupled strip-transmission-line configurations that are especially useful when close coupling is desired. Applications may be made to wideband coupled-strip-line filters, 3-db directional couplers, and many other components. The cross sections considered are thin broadside-coupled strips either parallel or perpendicular to the ground planes. Modification of the formulas for thick strips is discussed. The derivations are outlined, with particular attention given to the underlying assumption that restricts the use of the formulas to cases of close coupling."
"Capacitive thickness corrections are derived exactly for two basic geometries involving pairs of semi-infinite plates. In one arrangement the pair of plates are coplanar, while in the other they are parallel to each other. In each case the total capacitance per unit length between the pair of plates is infinite, but the incremental increase of capacitance when the thickness is increased from zero to a value t is finite. These capacitance increments are evaluated, and it is shown how they may be used as approximate thickness corrections in a great varity of more complicated geometries involving capacitive obstacles in waveguide, coaxial line, and artificial dielectric media. They may also be applied to coupled-strip-line conductors. As examples, the corrections are applied in detail to a waveguide iris, and to three useful coupled-strip-line cross sections."
"An inhomogeneous transformer is defined as one in which the guide wavelength is a function of position; for a homogeneous transformer, the guide wavelength is independent of position. A previous paper has dealt with inhomogeneous transformers of one section; the existence of an optimum design (which is never homogeneous) was demonstrated. The mathematical tools for inhomogeneous transformers of two or more sections have been presented in another paper. Our purpose here is to apply these results to the solution of the two-section inhomogeneous transformer. The maximally flat ideal transformer was solved exactly and the design equations verified by subsequent numerical analysis. An approximate procedure to improve the performance over a finite bandwidth (similar to the Tchebycheff response of homogeneous transformers) is also explained."
"The measurement of complex permittivities of isotropic media at microwave frequencies is performed with high precision by means of cylindrical cavity resonators. However, a hole in the cavity wall, for inserting the sample causes a frequency pulling of the resonator, which in turn introduces an error in the measured dielectric constant. These effects are measured, and with perturbation theory as a guide, correction factors are developed."
"D. S. Lerner and H. A. Wheeler, authors of \"Measurement of Bandwidth of Microwave Resonator by Phase Shift of Signal Modulation,\" which appeared on pages 343-345 of the May, 1960, issue of these Transactions, have brought the following to the attention of the Editor."
"A gas discharge tube for transmit-receive switching capable of handling average power levels up to at least 25 kw at 3000 Mc is described. The discharge is excited in the annular space between two concentric silica tubes and recovery time is controlled by the dimensions and gas pressure. In this way, a tube with constant characteristics during life has been achieved. The tube is mounted in a thick resonant iris, and sparking is avoided by using accurately ground silica mounted in a precision-bore hole. The arc loss of the tube in this form of mount is less than 0.1 db at 5 Mw peak 10 kw average, and the recovery time is about 100 µsec to 3 db. The attenuation is about 30 db, and the insertion loss is less than 0.1 db. Performance of this form of tube is discussed for average power levels of up to 50 kw in a phase-shift duplexer and 25 kw in a balanced duplexer, and the expected performance during life is also considered. Lives in excess of 10,000 hours are deduced from extrapolated data obtained with radioactive krypton in tubes operating at 10 kw average."
"This paper describes a circular electric mode directional coupler, composed of two coaxial bifurcations in circular waveguide. The coupling coefficient of the directional coupler depends on the separation between the two bifurcations, and a hybrid junction for the circular electric mode may be obtained at the proper separation. The analysis is carried out in terms of scattering matrix elements characterizing each coaxial bifurcation. The scattering matrix elements were experimentally determined via the Weissfloch tangent method at 5000-Mc band. For convenience, experiments were carried out in sectoral waveguide instead of circular waveguide. Measured characteristics at 9000-Mc band are in good agreement with values determined by circuit calculations employing parameters of the coaxial bifurcation measured at 5000-Mc band. For the case of a hybrid junction, wide-band matching has been accomplished and verified experimentally. Applications of this directional coupler are outlined."
"The experimental results of microwave amplification by the reflex klystron 2K25 have been reported. An equivalent circuit of the 2K25 amplifier was developed and checked with the experimental results."
"The purpose of this letter is not to criticize the philosophy of Kyhl's method nor even to engage in a debate as to whether his method is, or is not, more useful than ours. We find his proposals both interesting and meaningful. First, we would like to call attention to two errors in his letter and then to show the close relation of his method to ours."
"During the course of an investigation of a data-processing technique yielding effectively reduced sidelobes and beamwidth for a microwave radar antenna, the need arose for multiport power dividers. In order to avoid an undesirable decrease in the signal-to-noise ratio, it was necessary that these dividers waste no power. Consequently, a scattering matrix was sought which would have the obvious requirement that there be no wave reflected in the input port and which would allow the power to be divided into arbitrary but fixed relative parts."
"The paper by Allen and Kino suggests a novel method of combating troublesome cut-off oscillations in periodic slow-wave structures. The idea is to couple loss periodically into the system through slots which are resonant at the center of the (narrow) oscillation range. The high Q of the slots will effectively decouple the loss in the operating range of the pass band."
"A coaxial version of the wide-band stripIine magic T described by E. M. T. Jones in the March, 1960 issue of these Transactions was developed jointly at the Mullard Research Laboratories and the Laboratories of the General Electric Company, England, some years ago. It has proved a powerful component in the design of broad-band receiver circuits and has the advantage of small size and geometrical symmetry in addition to wide frequency coverage."
"In a recent issue, the practical realization of a Y-junction strip-line circulator was described which used disks of yttrium iron garnet located at the junction of the Y, magnetically biased above resonance at approximately 2200 gauss. By using a material with a lower saturation magnetization (magnesium, manganese, aluminum ferrite, 4piM=600) we have reduced the bias field required to approximately 190 gauss for frequencies in the 2-kMc range and to approximately 800° gauss for frequencies in the 1-kMc range, thus reducing considerably the weight of the circulator. If the circulator is to be operated as a switch, the reduced field requirements permit faster switching times or, for a given switching time, a considerable reduction in power supply requirements."
"Broad-band baluns have recently become the subject of renewed interest, particularly those suitable to couple spiral or planar log periodic antennas to the commonly used coaxial lines."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"A large group of papers from the 1960 National Symposium held at San Diego, Calif., will appear in the January, 1961, issue of the IRE Transactions on Microwave Theory and Techniques."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the back cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Several advantages of multiple-frequency nonlinear reactance circuits are described in this paper. In particular, a circuit is considered in which a nonlinear reactance couples four basic frequencies: /spl omega//sub 0/, /spl omega//sub 1/,/spl omega//sub 2/, and /spl omega//sub 3/; these are so related that /spl omega//sub 2/ = /spl omega//sub 0/ + /spl omega//sub 1/ and /spl omega//sub 3/ = /spl omega//sub 0/ - /spl omega//sub 1/. Here, /spl omega//sub 0/ is taken to be the power source or pump. It is found to be desirable to allow for the possible presence of the pump harmonic, 2/spl omega//sub 0/, and individual cases are characterized by whether 2/spl omega//sub 0/, is present or not. The major results are as follows: 1) Unlimited amplification gain is theoretically possible at frequencies higher than the pump, by reflecting negative input resistance at /spl omega//sub 2/, but without relying on any effects due to pump harmonics. 2) Unlimited up- or down-conversion gains between /spl omega//sub 1/ and /spl omega//sub 2/ are theoretically possible in the additional presence of the first pump harmonic, but without reflecting negative input or output resistance. 3) Unlimited amplification gain is theoretically possible at frequencies both lower and higher than the pump fundamental, without reflecting negative input resistance."
"The paper deals with the problem of three waves, 1, 2, and 3, in which waves 2 and 3 are coupled to wave 1 but not to each other. The general solution for the amplitudes of the waves is given in closed form. It is shown that for certain values of the parameters growing waves can exist. Numerical solutions for the location of the boundaries of the growing wave regions are plotted. It is shown furthermore that under certain conditions the power can be completely transferred from wave 1 to waves 2 and 3. Examples on traveling-wave tubes, waveguide couplers, and backward-wave oscillators illustrate the applicability of the theory."
"The noise figure of the 2K25 reflex klystron amplifier was investigated. The noise figure of the reflex klystron amplifier depends on operating frequency, electronic impedance, circuit impedance, and operating electronic mode. Experimental results show that a noise figure of 5 db is possible under particularly carefully adjusted conditions. In order to obtain the low-noise figure, careful electronic tuning and the impedance adjustments are particularly important. Generally, relatively low noise figures were obtained when the electronic tuning was good. Noise figures of cascaded reflex klystron amplifiers were also investigated experimentally. Noise figures of the cascaded amplifier were generally higher than that of the single stage amplifier, but still low enough to use this reflex klystron amplifiers as a preamplifier of a microwave receiver to increase the sensitivity of the receiving system."
"The modulated scattering method of Justice, Rumsey, and Richmond for measuring E field distribution is extended to the measurement of H field distribution by using a loop scatterer formed by two diodes. This diode loop method has the particular advantage of eliminating the large and undesirable effect produced by the associated E field when measuring the H field. A scattering analysis of the modulated diode loop is presented. It explains the principle of this new method and also supports the advantage mentioned above. A similar analysis for the modulated diode scatterer used in measuring E is also presented. It is believed that the explanation based upon this analysis for the E measurement is more satisfactory than that given by Richmond which is based upon a qualitative description of the diode scatterer."
"Many linear components in nondispersive transmission line are made up solely of commensurate lengths of line of various characteristic impedances. Such components have impulse responses that are a series of equispaced impulses, and, as a result, their frequency responses can be written as a Fourier series. Given the period and coefficients of the Fourier series describing the frequency response, the time response of the circuit to any pulse can be written down immediately as a sum of replicas of the applied pulse, each replica having an amplitude given by the coefficient of a term in the series, and occurring at a time determined by the period of that term of the series. The pulse responses of stepped transmission-line transformers, backward-coupling hybrids, and branch-line hybrids are determined and, after assuming a simple applied-pulse shape, are plotted."
"The electric and magnetic eigenvectors of a volume of revolution can be written in terms of two-dimensional scalar and vector functions. These functions are the eigenfunctions of certain linear transformations in the meridian plane. The form of the transformation is examined, and much attention is devoted to the orthogonality properties of their eigenfunctions and the calculation of their eigenvalues from variational principles."
"A novel printed circuit balun is described which is particularly well suited to applications where space is at a premium. The design utilizes unshielded strip transmission line, but is readily adaptable to all of the common printed circuit transmission line techniques. When the balun is housed within the cavity of a spiral antenna, boresight error is virtually eliminated, ellipticity ratios of less than 2 db are maintained over an azimuth angle greater than /spl plusmn/ 60/spl deg/, and the input standing-wave ratio is less than 2:1 over an octave frequency range. Experimental results are given and additional applications are described."
"The construction and performance of a millimeter wave modulator are described. The main part of the modulator consists of a p-i-n germanium structure inserted into a rectangular waveguide. A modulation depth of 11 db could be obtained at frequencies up to 5 kc, this modulation being caused for the greatest part by attenuation."
"A systematic measurements program has been carried out to check the validity of theoretical formulas for the equivalent circuit parameters of a variety of discontinuities in the center conductor of symmetric strip transmission line. These theoretical formulas have been in part previously available and are in part new or modified. Results indicate that, in general, these formulas are adequate for most engineering purposes and that certain of the network parameters can be neglected."
"By assuming that the current on a lossy transmission line flows in the axial direction, only a variational integral for the propagation constant can be readily obtained. This variational integral shows that the usual power loss method of evaluating the attenuation constant is valid for general transmission lines. This variational integral also shows that the perturbation of the loss-free phase constant is due to the increase in magnetic field energy caused by penetration of the field into the conductors."
"Bandwidth is measured by transmission of a signal with sine-wave modulation through a microwave resonator under test. The modulation frequency is adjusted so that the envelope is delayed 45/spl deg/ with respect to the input, indicating that the two sideband frequencies are separated by the half-power bandwidth. The resonance ratio (Q) is then equal to the ratio of carrier frequency over twice the modulation frequency. This depends on observations of these frequencies and the modulation phase shift, but not on the amplitude. It is insensitive to detuning or incidental frequency variation of the resonator or the signal. In a resonant cavity tested, an observed bandwidth of 30 kc at 700 mc indicated that Q =23,300."
"Summary--The theoretical approach to the three-port symmetrical circulator is reviewed and presented in a form valid for the most general waveguide case. A strip-line Y-junction circulator is described and the performance of different units in the band 800-1600 mc is illustrated. The new type of device described offers, for the low-frequency region of the microwave spectrum, advantages of simple design, light weight, and great compactness with respect to the classical types. When operated with a permanent magnet it gives--in a bandwidth of about 4 per cent--isolation greater than 20 db, insertion loss /spl les/0.4 db, and input VSWR/spl les/1.20."
"The techniques developed for designing periodically loaded traveling-wave parametric amplifiers using variable-reactance diodes are described in detail. An amplifier was built and tested with two different sets of eight diodes. The performance of the amplifier with each set of diodes agrees substantially with the theoretical predictions, the measured noise figures being about 1.2 db higher than the theoretical values in each case. The gain of the second amplifier varied from a minimum of 6.7 db to more than 13 db over the band from 550 to 930 mc, with a measured noise figure of 2.3 db for wide-band noise inputs in the middle of the band, corresponding to about 4.9 db for single-frequency inputs."
"A chain of identical cavity resonators coupled together through slots in their common walls forms a band-pass microwave filter. The pass band characteristics of such a system are determined by a combination of field theory and circuit theory. The fields in the cavities are expressed in terms of the normal modes of the uncoupled cavities. The fields in the neighborhood of a slot are determined by representing the slot as a transmission line. Irrotational components of the field in the cavities account for direct slot-to-slot coupling. The method successfully predicts both the dispersion characteristics and field distributions over large frequency ranges for many practical systems, such as slow-wave circuits for high-power traveling-wave tubes."
"This paper describes the mechanism of phase modulation by waveguide in the presence of a high intensity acoustic field. X-band rectangular was studied to determine the following: a) Resonant frequency in a transverse vibrational mode. b) Means of minimizing phase modulation."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The possibility was examined of improving paper capacitors by the applications of new types of impregnants. The tests proved that the paper capacitors impregnated with the various new impregnants can be improved to such an extent that they are as good as plastic film condensers in stability, heat resistance, and temperature coefficients. In addition, paper capacitors are far smaller than plastic film dielectric capacitors. The research work undertaken showed that one way to develop the capacitors lies in research into impregnants, especially heat-resisting casting resins."
"This paper outlines the history of man's investigations in the field of low-temperature physics. The properties and uses of liquid helium are given, and some of the phenomena which occur at temperatures near absolute zero are noted. Techniques of lowtemperature experimentation are described and some of the applications of superconducting materials discussed."
"This article gives an account of the work at the Royal Radar Establishment (RRE), Malvern, England, on the preparation and properties of thin ferromagnetic films. The work provides the prospect of a computer store in which a million bits would occupy less than an 18-inch cube, and which would possess a switching time faster than 20 mµsec. The store would be cheap and easily constructed."
"A solution for the transient response of a reverse biased semiconductor diode to a step function (voltage) may be found by considering the junction essentially a voltage variable capacitance. The assumptions from which the analysis is made are given and found to be applicable in a wide variety of cases. Specific solutions are obtained for abrupt and linearly graded junctions, and experimental evidence is presented which is in good agreement with the derived equations."
"Steady-state digital and analytical solutions are given for the temperature distribution in slabs and cylinders of materials heated by varying magnetic fields. The materials are assumed to have a positive temperature coefficient of electrical conductivity of the type associated with semiconductors. The stability of the temperature distribution is investigated. It is shown that the solutions can be either stable or unstable, depending upon the size of the sample. Some of the practical significance of such heating is discussEd in relation to the design of high-power wideband transformers."
"The techniques used in producing thin-film circuits are discussed. Conductive, resistive and insulating films are evaporated separately onto glass substrates to form resistors, capacitors and interconnections. Active elements, transistors and diodes are mounted in holes drilled through the substrates. Studies aimed at developing thin-film active elements are discussed briefly. Several possible methods of interconnection are presented."
"The engineering, packaging, and testing controls necessary to produce reliable, precise LC comb filters which are critical components in today's advanced military electronics systems, are often completely overlooked or inadequately stressed. It is common practice for engineers to consider the filter as a \"black box\" to be accepted as soon as the electrical requirements have been met. Then, there usually follows a crash program of makeshift \"fixes\" in order that the unit in final form may reliably meet the rigid environments encountered in Military Systems. This paper describes the design of a 60-filter comb, which is the critical front end of Doppler radar systems, and presents solutions to packaging problems encountered in its design, and the test controls devised to produce 60 precise LC filters with critical interrelated electrical specifications. The mechanical evolution of the design will be described. In summation, LC comb filters can be designed stressing repairability, good shop practice, and precision electrical characteristics, as well as environmental reliability."
"The increasing demand by equipment and system design engineers for greater operational and functional reliability of components has dictated the need for greater understanding and improvement of individual supporting parts. The present trend, in order to obtain reliable systems, is to devote maximum effort to perfecting or developing highly reliable equipments without commensurate effort to the necessary supporting interconnecting network required to integrate the various components into a complex system. This approach to system design is extremely risky and usually costly. Realizing the inefficiencies and risk to this approach, a joint Signal Ordnance Corps program under Contracts DA36-039 SC-73056 and SC-78175 was initiated with RCA Service Company, Alexandria~ Va. to survey and evaluate all external cables and connectors associated with several guided missile systems. During the evaluation phase, it became apparent that a consolidated and functionalized approach to cable design was necessary to obtain the required reliability, especially when dealing with a large and complex system such as the Nike Hercules, which has approximately 150 cable runs, consisting of approximately 13 miles of cables, weighing approximately 13 tons, and over 300 connectors. This paper will discuss the effect of conductor grouping on the inherent cable reliability, signal compatability and operational system reliability. Approaches which will permit the design of optimum and efficient external interconnecting networks for systems application are suggested."
"Summary--This paper describes a recommended standard resistor-noise test system, with the theory of operation given in considerable detail. The system provides for the measurement of a definitive resistor-noise quality Index. This Index, the \"microvolts-per-volt\" Index, is a modified form of the \"conversion gain\" index formerly used at NBS. The Index is a decibel expression for the number of microvolts of noise per volt of applied dc voltage transmitted in a frequency decade. A practical example is given to illustrate how the Index may be used to calculate the magnitude of current noise generated by fixed resistors in a given application. To complete the example, the combined effects of thermal noise, tube noise, and current noise are then considered. A description is also given of an existing test set which is based upon specifications associated with the recommended measuring system. The full specifications for this set are given and distinctive design features are discussed. The simple operation of the test Set and the computation of the Index are carefully explained."
"Summary--This article gives a description of the state of the art insofar as small tubular tantalum capacitors for military and industrial applications are concerned. Foil anode paste-electrolyte, sintered-anode liquid-electrolyte, and solid-tantalum capacitors are described and their performance characteristics discussed. Data on reliability of the various types are presented."
"Summary--The leakage resistance of capacitors as a function of time is a characteristic to be considered in the choice and control of capacitors, especially in many modern military electronics applications. This paper, by the use of transient circuit analysis, shows why most leakage resistance data accumulated in the electronics industry for capacitors are invalid. Valid data can be obtained by using low resistance meters to make such measurements. Valid experimental curves of leakage resistance vs time for thirteen types of capacitors, each type employing a different dielectric combination, are shown; and the significance of these curves is discussed."
"Summary--This paper discusses the performance of a toroidal square-loop ferromagnetic core as a circuit element. The analysis takes account of two different physical processes in the core: a reversible one which contributes to the fast initial rise of the output signal, and an irreversible one, tentatively described as domain rotation, which is mainly responsible for switching the core. A differential equation is set up which governs the entire physical system, including the external circuit, and leads to a calculation of the output signal and its dependence on the secondary loading. Core parameters determined experimentally for an open-circuited core are used to predict the output signal when the core is loaded, and close agreement is found with measured values."
"Summary--Step-calibration methods are used in many physical laboratories for the extension of measurements to quantities far removed from the magnitude of greatest accuracy at which absolute determinations are made. The excellent precision of repetitive substitution procedures is exploited by step-up or step-down methods to extend measurements to higher or lower magnitudes without serious degradation of accuracy. The application of step-up techniques to the calibration of variable air capacitors is described in this paper as a practical example of the method."
"Summary--The properties and operating characteristics of nonvented, rechargeable, nickel-cadmium cells are determined and illustrated. The chacacteristics shown can be used to predict the performance of available sizes for circuit applications where a permanent, rechargeable dc power source is desired."
"Presents the introductory editorial for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the Professional Group on Antennas and Propagation (PGAP) Newsletter.  Includes some of the following information:  News and events of interest to PGAP members; PGAP Committees and meetings; upcoming conferences, symposiums, and workshops; PGAP publications information;  chapter events; and major industry events."
"Presents the Professional Group on Antennas and Propagation (PGAP) Newsletter.  Includes some of the following information:  News and events of interest to PGAP members; PGAP Committees and meetings; upcoming conferences, symposiums, and workshops; PGAP publications information;  chapter events; and major industry events."
"Presents the Professional Group on Antennas and Propagation (PGAP) Newsletter.  Includes some of the following information:  News and events of interest to PGAP members; PGAP Committees and meetings; upcoming conferences, symposiums, and workshops; PGAP publications information;  chapter events; and major industry events."
"Describes the special features, transmision capabilities, and communications capabilities of large antenna technologies and products on the market."
"Presents the Professional Group on Antennas and Propagation (PGAP) Newsletter.  Includes some of the following information:  News and events of interest to PGAP members; PGAP Committees and meetings; upcoming conferences, symposiums, and workshops; PGAP publications information;  chapter events; and major industry events."
"Presents the Professional Group on Antennas and Propagation (PGAP) Newsletter.  Includes some of the following information:  News and events of interest to PGAP members; PGAP Committees and meetings; upcoming conferences, symposiums, and workshops; PGAP publications information;  chapter events; and major industry events."
"Describes the special features, transmision capabilities, and communications capabilities of large antenna technologies and products on the market."
"A digital computer was used as a mechanical observer to evaluate antenna image quality as a function of the aperture illumination for a high resolution antenna. An illumination close to uniform was found to yield an image that was best as measured by the ease with which the mechanical observer was able to analyze the images. A description of the logical design of the observer and the results of applying it to the analysis of a typical class of illuminations are given."
"This paper presents various methods of synthesizing sources placed on a conical surface to produce a prescribed radiation pattern. The sources considered are a series of electric dipoles placed in free space on the surface of the cone around a set of circumferences. These circumferences are equidistant from each other, and the dipoles are oriented in the circumferential direction with no circumferential variation in intensity and phase. A successive approximation method is employed to obtain the source function for those sources which are placed in a region where the circumferences measure approximately less than two wavelengths. For sources placed in the region where the circumference is less than approximately(4/3)\\piwavelengths, an expansion formula of the product of the Bessel and exponential functions is employed. When the sources are located far from the cone tip, a method utilizing the maximum points of the Bessel function is used to compute the source function. In considering the beamwidth and the sidelobe level, the Tchebycheff pattern with the tapering effect is employed. Numerical examples are given to illustrate the effectiveness of the methods."
"It is not generally realized that while the refractive error due to the troposphere rapidly decreases with the elevation angle, its ionospheric counterpart behaves very differently. For target heights which are small or comparable to the Earth's radius the ionosphere refractive error initially increases with the elevation angle, attains the maximum value at elevation angles on the order of 100 milliradians and then gradually decreases. The size of this increase decreases with the distance from the Earth and at astronomical distances the initial slope of the ionospheric error at grazing incidence is zero. At ionospheric heights the elevation angle at which the ionosopheric bending is maximum is roughly proportional to the square root of the layer height. This somewhat unexpected behavior of ionospheric bending is examined and sample computations are made using realistic models of ionosphere and troposphere."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Tables of the circular aperture distributions described in the preceding paper by Taylor are given. Steps in the design process are illustrated by examples."
"The paper describes experimental results of bistatic studies of meteor echoes at 200 mc using a high power source and highly directive antennas. The transmission paths studied ranged from 940 to 1800 km in length and included many off-great-circle paths. Diurnal burst rate curves are given for each path. Median duration of the VHF bursts is compared with theory. For certain paths, duty cycle and Doppler shift data are given. At some sites signals were received from ionization aligned with the Earth's magnetic field."
"Satellite signals are effected by frequency scintillations in the same manner as radio star emissions. Therefore, the Doppler shift of such signals suffers fluctuations. These alterations are a function of the variations of the electron density distribution along the radio-ray path under observation. The number and the magnitude of these scintillations are used to measure the roughness of the ionosphere (formation of a scintillation index). The paper deals with the alteration of the established scintillation index during a time interval in August and September, 1958, i.e., before, during, and after the well known Argus experiments. The observations indicate that no long-living ionospheric inhomogeneities were produced within the zones of the ionosphere which could be checked from our ground station."
"An optical simulation method was used to study the effect of aperture illumination on image quality for a high resolution antenna. It was determined that an illumination close to uniform yields the best image, as measured by the similarity of the image to the object when similarity was judged by a group of human observers. The techniques used are described, and the results of the evaluation of a typical class of illuminations are given."
"A class of protruding rocket antennas of low silhouette is analyzed in terms of an approximately equivalent circuit that consists of a shunt-driven transmission line terminated in a reactor at each end. Expressions for the currents in the several parts of the circuit are used to determine the Poynting vector and from this the radiation resistance referred to the current in the generator. The reactance is obtained from transmission-line formulas."
"The back scattering cross sections of fine wires, taking the effect of finite conductivity into account, have been found. The variational procedure is used to find theoretical expressions for the cross section and it is concluded that the zeroth and the first-order solutions of Tai converge to one another with the addition of loss, in the region of first resonance. For fine copper, platinum and bismuth wires, experimentally determined cross sections agree with the theoretical results calculated from the zero-order solution to within 4 per cent in peak resonant values and 1.5 per cent in bandwidth."
"The scattering of plane electromagnetic waves of wave numberkby an infinite slit of width2aformed by two perfectly conducting coplanar screens of zero thickness is considered. In the limit of largekaand at grazing incidence, the asymptotic series for the transmission cross section per unit length of the slit is evaluated up to the order(ka)^{-11 i 2}."
"Consideration of methods of simulating a moving target by making a mechanically stationary target appear [to an MTI (Moving Target Indicator)-equipped radar] to be moving resulted in the use of crystals as switching elements in a low-voltage low-energy battery-powered device. Extending the use of these switching elements results in a target that is visible to any polarization. By applying these concepts to composite waveguide structures, a dual-band simulated target head was developed and field tested."
"Two reciprocity theorems are derived which are valid for fields whose sources may have arbitrary time dependence. The first theorem involves the electromagnetic potentials, and the second is in terms of the electric and magnetic fields directly. In both cases, it is necessary to make use of the advanced as well as the retarded solutions to Maxwell's equations. Some properties of the theorems are discussed, and, as an application, the second theorem is used to derive a variational expression for scattering of electromagnetic waves from a perfect conductor."
"This article extends a method of antenna design described in an earlier article by the same author. A family of continuous circular aperture distributions is developed in such a way as to involve only two independent parameters,A, a quantity uniquely related to the design sidelobe level and\\bar{n}a number controlling the degree of uniformity of the sidelobes. An asymptotic approach to the condition of uniform sidelobes thus becomes possible. A companion article by Robert Hansen contains aperture distribution tables and examples."
"A general expression is derived for the maximum angular accuracy of tracking a radio star by lobe comparison (or monopulse). This angular accuracy depends on the input signal-to-noise ratio, the wavelength, the time-bandwidth product of signal integration, and the effective length of the antenna aperture. The maximum angular accuracy can be obtained, approximately, by performing a simple correlation of odd and even components of the antenna output. Angular accuracy formulas for simple antenna dishes or for interferometers appear as special cases of the general result. The Appendix discusses the interferometer technique in more detail, and the angular accuracy for the data processing technique used by M. Ryle is compared with that obtained from the optimum processing."
"A partly analytical process is described for calculating the far-zone patterns of reflector antennas which may have nonlinear polarization. Wave polarization equations are given for a focused but not necessarily symmetrical paraboloid. The process applies for any point-source feed whose radiation characteristics, including wave polarization, are known either by theory or measurements. Calculated and measured patterns are given for a fan-beam antenna whose reflector is120 \\lambdahigh and30 \\lambdawide. They agree well near the axis and agree qualitatively for off-axis angles of several beamwidths. The sources of errors are discussed."
"The scattering of plane electromagnetic wave of wave numberkby a circular aperture of radiusain an infinitely conducting plane screen of zero thickness and infinite extent is considered. In the limit of largekaand at normal incidence, the ratio of the transmission cross section to the geometrical optical value\\pi a^{2}, is found up to the order(ka)^{-5^{j}2}."
"Starting from the radiation characteristics of a differential current element, the vector potential produced by a single-turn circular loop antenna is formulated in terms of a general loop current by a direct integration process. Evaluation of the resulting integrals for a limited number of specific loop current distributions leads to generalized expressions for both the standing-wave and traveling-wave cases. Radiation fields can be found from the integrated vector potential expressions. This technique represents only a slight modification of the one used by Sherman, but it extends his work in such a way that the results are equivalent to those obtained by Knudsen in a somewhat different manner."
"The importance of a waveguide linear array capable of producing many different radiation patterns has led to the development of a slot radiator with variable coupling. An array of such radiators can be used as a laboratory apparatus for the evaluation of aperture distributions, or as a ground-painting reconnaissance antenna operable at many different altitudes. The slot radiator consists of a longitudinal slot centered in the broad face of a rectangular waveguide. An adjustable iris excites the slot by introducing controlled asymmetry in the waveguide fields. The theory of operation and the characteristics of this variable coupling slot are presented. These characteristics are shown in curves usable for design purposes. A detailed discussion is given of the technique used in determining the range of conductances of this slot. The control of coupling available is demonstrated by measured radiation patterns on a 12-element array in which the conductance values are varied to obtain sidelobe ratios from 10 to 34 db. The method used in obtaining the aperture distributions for these radiation patterns is also presented."
"The quantitative changes in propagation, antenna impedance, radar cross section, breakdown, and emissivity characteristics resulting from hypersonic plasmas depend on the electrons and heavier particles present. To determine these number densities for normal and oblique shocks, aerothermodynamic theory is applied to relate macroscopic properties on both sides of the shock front by means of the flow conservation equations. Composition and energy of the shocked air at assumed velocities, densities, and temperatures are then obtained using the law of mass action and the principles of statistical quantum mechanics until the conservation equations are satisfied."
"A spherical Luneberg lens has the property of focusing the rays from a point source on the surface of the lens into a collimated beam on the diametrically opposite side of the lens. In microwave applications a point source on the surface of the lens is usually not obtained. Curves are given for the required index of refraction for a modified Luneberg lens which possesses the same collimating property for a point source located at a small distance outside of the lens."
"Ordinarily when an antenna is rotated successively about mutually perpendicular earth-fixed axes such as axes pointing up, north, and west, the order in which the successive rotations are made cannot be reversed without obtaining a very different final antenna orientation. This paper gives an analytic proof that the same final antenna orientation can always be obtained with the rotation order reversed as with the rotations performed in correct order. To accomplish this it is necessary when reversing the order of rotation only to also reidentify the axes of rotation. The required reidentification is obtained by considering the axes as detached from the earth and permitted to turn with the antenna as would lines painted on the antenna before the rotations are begun."
"By replacing each dielectric sheet in an infinite array of thin dielectric sheets by an infinitely thin polarization current sheet, a solution for the scattering of plane waves by such an array is obtained. The simplified periodic boundary value problem is rigorously solved by using bilateral Laplace transforms. Numerical results obtained compare favorably with those obtained by the Rayleigh-Ritz method."
"Traveling-wave analysis of long Yagi antennas is reviewed briefly. The method of designing a Yagi antenna from this viewpoint is discussed and some experimental results are given in order to verify the analysis. A long Yagi antenna, when designed according to the Hansen and Woodyard condition, has a sidelobe ratio of 9.32 db in its radiation pattern, irrespective of the length of the antenna. It is shown that by varying the propagation constant linearly along the length of the antenna, the sidelobe ratio can be improved considerably without sacrificing much of the antenna gain. This linear variation of the propagation constant may be obtained by slowly tapering the element lengths and/or element spacings along the length of the antenna. An approximate theory is developed for the linearly tapered long Yagi antenna and it is verified by actual measurements. A comparison between the radiation patterns of the uniform and the tapered long Yagi antennas clearly shows the advantage of tapering."
"The problem of an array consisting of a slot antenna and two symmetrically-located cylindrical dipoles is formulated. The approximate distribution of the current along each antenna is obtained by a method of iteration. The radiation function, the coupling coefficients between the slot and the dipole, the relation between the magnetic current in the slot and the electric current in the dipole, and the input impedance of the slot in the presence of the dipoles have been obtained. An experimental setup for measuring the radiation patterns is described and measured and theoretical patterns are displayed."
"Using the model of aircraft reflection developed by DeLano, the spectra of the reflection signals are found. Spectra for the amplitude of the rectified return, for the angular fluctuation signal associated with a fixed radar line-of-sight (effective radar center fluctuation), and for the angular fluctuation signal associated with a zero time constant servo (apparent radar center fluctuation) are derived. Several types of target motion are considered: uniform rotation, random rotation, and rectilinear velocity toward the radar itself. Each of these motions produces a characteristic spectrum and the properties of these spectra are pointed out and their significance in radar system design emphasized. In particular, the importance of the spectral density at zero frequency of the apparent radar center is shown in relation to systems using very rapid automatic gain control (AGC). It is shown that such use of very fast AGC may increase this noise density by a factor of approximately three, and thus increase the system noise."
"The depth of penetration into a conducting medium, where sinusoidal surface excitations generate peak magnetic fields or derivatives equal to those of an impulse-type surface excitation, are calculated. Finite pulses generate fields similar to those of a surface impulse provided they are sufficiently short. The maximum permissible pulse duration is proportional to the square of the specified penetration depth. In order to exhibit minimum attenuation, the excitation fields must be unipolar over a time period comparable with the transient duration. Such fields may be generated within the induction field of the source."
"Formulas for the mutual and self-impedance of two identical nonstaggered parallel-folded dipoles are developed. A generalization of the theory permits determination of these impedances for any identical dual configuration of wires, no matter how complicated, provided the structures are symmetrical with respect to the driving points. If the impedance of any single-conductor solid-wire element in a symmetrical circular array of linear radiators is known, the impedance of each element in a similar array consisting of folded-wire structures is readily obtained. Two obvious practical uses of the theory are: 1) the determination of the performance of a two-element folded antenna array, when one antenna is a tuned parasite, functioning as a director or reflector; and 2) determination of the driving-point impedance of a folded antenna parallel to a highly-conducting plane."
"Flight evaluation of communication-navigation-identification antennas installed on new types of aircraft is required to confirm model measurements. The paper reviews the parameters involved in such an evaluation under both standard and nonstandard propagation conditions. The predicted signal level across the receiver terminals connected to an isotropic antenna is employed as the standard of comparison with the scale-model antenna patterns. The procedures employed and the results obtained are briefly discussed."
"Fifty-seven spectra of temperature, vapor pressure and refractive index were computed from captive balloon data taken at elevations up to 3000 feet MSL. Eight spectra of refractive index were obtained using an aircraft equipped with a microwave refractometer. It was found that atmospheric stability apparently has a pronounced effect on the variation of turbulent intensity with height. Although the spectra of all three parameters generally approach a -5/3 power law at high wave numbers, stability seems to have a controlling influence on spectral form at the low-frequency end of the wave number range studied. It is therefore concluded that methods of computing microwave scattered fields from the mean square dielectric perturbations and scale size obtained from the auto covariance are unreliable. The forms of the experimental auto covariances appear to be best represented by an exponential function or perhaps by a Modified Bessel Function of the second kind and 1/3 order. The temperature-humidity cospectrum may influence the shape of the refractive index spectrum, especially under unstable conditions. The equivalence of Eulerian space and time spectra is verified for refractive index by a series of aircraft-balloon fly-bys."
"Reciprocity theorems are developed for the average field specularly reflected, and the average power randomly scattered, to a point by a statistically described array of objects. A reciprocal quasivariational expression for the average power is developed for use when the self-consistent method applies to calculating currents in the individual objects. This formula is applied to calculate differential scattering cross sections for two idealized arrays bounded by plane \"rough surfaces.\" General conclusions, relating to reciprocity, power conservation, grazing behavior, etc., for rough surface scattering, are made and applied heuristically to show that grazing reflection and backscatter from the rough ocean should be independent of polarization."
"The necessary equations are presented for obtaining the noise temperature due to thermal radiation which would be sensed by a receiver with an antenna located at some altitude above the earth. Emission and absorption of radiation by the atmosphere is considered. Calculated over-all absorptivities and apparent atmospheric temperatures are given as a function of antenna observation angle for beam paths through the atmosphere. Six wavelengths in the microwave band and three types of weather conditions were chosen for the calculations. Some typical antenna temperatures are presented as examples of the magnitudes of the effects to be expected as a function of the type of surface being viewed, the weather, and polarization."
"The practice of integrating periodic low-level signals with time in order to improve the SNR of a coherent signal in an ambient of incoherent noise is extremely useful and generally understood. In cases where the signal continues as long as the observer desires to integrate, the SNR can of course be improved by lengthening the integration period without limit. However, in the case of a radar system trying to detect a very rapidly-approaching target, it is obvious that one does not have an unlimited length of time to perform the signal integration and arrive at a decision. The authors have derived an expression which reveals what the optimum integration period is when the radius of the region to be protected, and the velocity of the approaching target, are known."
"A linear array with general arbitrarily distributed elements is discussed. A matrix relationship is found between the elements of the array and its far-zone pattern. The lower bound of the stored energy and theQfactor of the array are found. A figure of merit for the array is defined."
"Radiation patterns were measured for corner-reflector antennas having various combinations of widths and lengths of the reflecting surfaces. The widths of these ranged from 1 to 10 wavelengths, the lengths from 0.5 to 5 wavelengths. The aperture angle was, in general, set at a value required to maximize the gain. Radiation patterns are arranged according to the size of the reflecting surfaces. The effect of the widths and lengths of the surfaces on the widths of the main lobe and on the level of the radiation to the rear is summarized in a series of curves. A corner-reflector antenna with a collinear array of dipoles was designed, constructed, and tested to have sidelobe radiation below -40-db level."
"Backscattering is calculated for an acoustic wave incident on a hard or soft finite cone, and for an electromagnetic wave incident on a perfectly-conducting finite cone. Two shapes of cone are treated, one with a flat base and the other with a rounded base. The calculation is based on the geometrical theory of diffraction. It is probably valid for wavelengths as large as the cone dimensions or smaller. Graphs of the backscattering cross section vs cone angle and vs wavelength are given for axial incidence on the flat-based cone. Suggestions for shaping an object to minimize its backscattering are also included."
"In a recent paper, Richards derives expressions for the electric and magnetic fields of a short pulse of electric or magnetic dipole moment in a conducting medium. An alternative analysis is given which explains certain unusual results of the original work as arising from dispersion in the conducting medium and from the frequency dependence of the attenuation factor of the fields. The conclusion drawn is that communication by pulses is expected to be inferior to that by low-frequency continuous waves."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A periodic structure approach is presented for the analysis of the impedance properties of large antenna arrays. The method is applied to a two-dimensional array of slots, in which each slot is fed by a separate waveguide and the array radiates into a half-space. The slot spacing and progressive phasing in the array may be arbitrary, however. The periodic structure approach permits a waveguide-type analysis of the half-space which automatically includes all mutual coupling effects. Both the susceptance and conductance of the slot are evaluated for arbitrary scan angle, and the effects associated with the appearance of higher order beams are considered."
"A statistical approach to radar backscattering from terrain is taken in this paper. The normalized radar cross section,\\sigma_{0}, has been computed for two different terrain models. The value of\\sigma_{0}, is obtained for both models as a function of grazing angle,\\theta, and radiation wavelength,\\lambda. The first model is a distribution of isolated independent scatterers such as corner reflectors. For such surfaces a wavelength dependence for\\sigma_{0}is obtained, and, depending upon the density of scatterers and their average size, the theoretical results indicate that the local dependence of\\sigma_{0}on\\lambdacan be as\\lambda^{-6}, \\lambda^{-4}or\\lambda^{-2}. For such surfaces,\\sigma_{0}is independent of\\theta. Where reflection occurs from specularly reflecting facets on the surface and where the distribution of surface slopes is Gaussian, the\\thetadependence turns out to be of the forme^{-k cot^{2}\\theta/2s_{0}^{2}}wheres_{0}is the standard deviation of the surface-slope distribution. The precise form of\\sigma_{0}depends upon the space spectrum of the slopes. Two cases are worked out, one where such a spectrum is flat out to some cutoff, and the other where the space spectrum has a single peak at a particular wave number. In either case, for small enough\\lambda,\\sigma_{0}varies as\\lambda^{-2}. As the wavelength becomes large compared to the facet size, the facet no longer behaves as a specular reflector and instead becomes more like an isotropic scatterer. For any particular wavelength one may expect that the radar return be the result of the addition of two types of backscattering. The large facets will behave as specular-type reflectors, while the smaller facets will act as the isotropic scatterers discussed in the first model."
"An analysis is presented of the driving point impedance of the elements in a flat array of infinite vertical height but finite horizontal width. It is assumed that each of the elements is fed by a separate amplifier, having infinite internal impedance, and that the amplifiers can be phased to direct the beam at various positions in space. The radiating elements considered are infinitely long wires spaced on half-wavelength centers and half-wave dipoles spaced on half-wavelength centers, each backed by a conducting ground plane spaced one-quarter wavelength from the elements. Values of driving point impedance are computed for the 61 elements in arrays 30 wavelengths wide. Values of the driving point impedance near the center of the array are found to agree closely with the values computed for infinitely wide arrays while the driving-point impedance of elements near the edge of the array are found to deviate considerably from the values at the center."
"A pair of equally excited but oppositely sensed Archimedean two-wire spirals situated close to one another in the same plane-a doublet-is used to generate a linearly polarized field in which the direction of polarization and phase are controlled or varied independently of each other by rotation of the spiral radiators. An array of these doublets can be made to scan by rotation of the several spiral elements; an eight-doublet array which was made to scan over an83\\degsector with small amplitude variation is discussed. A doublet fed from a ring network can be employed as a polarization diversity circuit. A virtual doublet is achieved by placing a single spiral in a fight angle trough. A preliminary scanning array comprising four spirals in a trough was made to scan\\pm36\\deg. The possibility of using a parasitic spiral in conjunction with a driven spiral for obtaining linear polarization of variable direction and phase is indicated. Also, a brief simplified analysis of the two-wire Archimedean spiral is presented, which leads to the concept of higher-order modes of radiation."
"Theoretical expressions are derived for the effects of mutual coupling between two parallel leaky wave antennas located in an infinite plane. The leaky wave antennas treated are slitted rectangular waveguides, the propagation constants of which are modified by the coupling. It is shown that the attenuation constants are influenced significantly but that the phase constants are changed only slightly, so that the coupling is different from that between neighboring surface wave lines. The nature of the coupling effects are illustrated by numerical calculations."
"It is well known that linear antenna arrays are representable mathematically by polynomials. However, even for the simplest case of a uniform array, properties of its radiation pattern are conventionally analyzed by examining the transcendental form of the array factor and some of its important characteristics have been determined only approximately. For a more general array, a closed form of the associated polynomial is usually not obtained and the analysis becomes quite difficult. This paper proposes a new approach for linear array analysis. Basically, the current distribution in the discrete elements of a linear array is considered as the sampled values of a continuous function. Known relations inZ, transforms developed for sampled-data systems can then be used to express the array polynomial in a closed form. Mathematical techniques for determining important properties of the array pattern are developed. Typical examples illustrating the applications of this new approach are given."
"An experimental program to investigate the reradiation properties of terrain at near-vertical incidence was carried out. Data were obtained at 415 and 3800 mc, using narrow-pulse type radar at altitudes of 2000 to 12,000 feet over many different target areas. At frequencies over 400 mc most terrain acts as a scatterer of energy even at near-vertical incidence with a backscattering \"radiation pattern\" that drops off rapidly as the angle of incidence is increased. An exception occurs for heavily wooded areas which appear as nearly isotropic scatterers. At 415 mc, the radar cross section per unit area at vertical incidence ranges between values of 0.7 for woods to approximately 4 for city targets, while at 3800 mc, the variation ranges between values of 0.8 for woods to about 18 for some city targets. If the ground were a lossless isotropic scatterer, the radar cross section per unit area would be 2 at vertical incidence. For a wide beam antenna, the fading range between the level exceeded by 95 per cent of the return pulses and the level exceeded by only 5 per cent of the return pulses is generally between 12 and 17 db, except for a few very smooth areas which give considerable specular (nonfading) type of return and have a smaller fading range."
"It is noted that the comments of Anderson (ibid, this issue, pp. 337-338, May 1960) regarding the typographical errors of B2 and π, and the definition of ν, an effective collision frequency, for insertion into the classical equations are correct. The deviation in our simplified conductivity based on a mean velocity fo is, however, essentially 0.18 and not 0.82."
"A new class of coplanar dipole arrays is introduced. The antennas described provide unidirectional radiation patterns of constant beamwidth and nearly constant input impedances over any desired bandwidth. The broad-band properties are achieved by making use of the principles of log periodic antenna design. Models are discussed which are capable of providing 8- to 9-db directive gain with an associated input standing wave ratio of 1:2:1 on a 75-ohm feeder, and this performance is independent of frequency. The free-space properties of several of these arrays have been measured and the results are presented. The antenna configuration is simple, permitting practical methods of fabrication, and the design should prove useful in many applications. It makes possible, for example, the construction of \"all-wave\" rotatable beams of very low cross section for use in the hf to uhf spectrum."
"When an open-circuited section of unshielded balanced two-wire transmission line is introduced perpendicularly into earth (or some sample under test), the electrical characteristics of the latter may be found by simple input-impedance measurements. By laboratory sample measurements the classical short- and open-circuited method can be used. Some exact and approximate procedures are presented and their utility and practical limitations discussed. Some precautions as to how possible errors and inexactnesses in the measurements and following calculations may be avoided are given. As an example, a typical earth sample is tested in a frequency range from 0.6 to 400 mc, with graphic representation of the most important electrical constants: conductivity, dielectric constant, attenuation, velocity of propagation, etc., which exhibit great variations in the frequency range cited. The measurement method presented seems to be adequate to use in small mobile equipment, with which the ground in general can be tested in its original site and under natural conditions without the necessity of being removed."
"The radiation fields of the Archimedes spiral are derived by approximating the spiral with a series of semicircles. The calculated patterns are shown to have excellent correlation with experimentally determined patterns. It is shown that the high-frequency limit is determined by the feed configuration and that the low-frequency limit occurs when the outside diameter is a little greater than a half wavelength."
"The relation between the statistics of the antenna beam pointing direction and the phase and amplitude errors at the source has been obtained to first order in the mean-square errors, under certain restrictions, for long line sources. It is shown that when the desired phase at the source is a constant, the results are, to first order, independent of the amplitude errors. When the desired amplitude is also constant, there is a simple formula for computing the allowable rms-phase error at the source when the pointing direction is required to lie in a given angular range with a given probability. When the amplitude distribution corresponds to the Taylor-modified(\\sin x)/xpattern, the allowed rms-phase error is obtained from the constant-amplitude case by a multiplicative factor which depends only on the one parameter characterizing the Taylor distribution. This function is plotted for the range corresponding to sidelobe ratios of 13.2 to 40 db. At 40 db the allowed rms-phase errors are about three fourths of the allowed rms-phase errors at 13.2 db (constant amplitude) for the same uncertainty in the pointing direction. The results are applied to a hypothetical example and to an actual \"Mills Cross\" for illustrative purposes."
"A microwave antenna has been designed and constructed on the principles of parageometric optics formulated by Toraldo di Francia and on principles similar to those of Fresnel rings and the diffraction grating. Its surfaces are all zones of cones and are simple to construct. The chosen design parameters were incorporated in twoK-band (\\lambda = 1.24cm,\\lambda = 1.22cm) models. Experimental results show good agreement with theory. Scanning characteristics are superior to those of the paraboloidal or spherical reflector, and spherical aberration and coma are minimized, and the effects of astigmatism are minimized by using a \"compromise focus.\""
"Fading characteristics at 36 kmc over a line-of-sight path in the Los Angeles basin have been shown to be closely correlated with meteorological conditions, particularly with the relatively persistent, low-level temperature inversion of the area. No positive evidence of the influence of atmospheric pollutants has been found, but it has been shown that suitably located microwave paths can be of value for locating and monitoring temperature inversions when they are accompanied by sufficient variation in water-vapor content. The relation of diurnal variations in propagation characteristics to diurnal variations in the temperature inversion and in atmospheric turbulence indicate that the refraction mechanism is the predominant one in causing the observed large fading amplitudes. The view is further strengthened by the relatively noncritical relation of fading to the proximity of the inversion layer."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"By means of a certain transformation, a relationship is demonstrated between a class of two-dimensional and three-dimensional scalar or electromagnetic diffraction problems. The basic three-dimensional configuration consists of a perfectly reflecting half plane excited by a ring source centered about the edge and having a variation exp (\\pm i\\phi/2), where\\phi, is the azimuthal variable; in addition, a perfectly reflecting rotationally, symmetric obstacle whose surface is defined byf(\\rho, z) = 0(\\rho, zare cylindrical coordinates) may be superposed about the edge (zaxis). This problem is shown to be simply related to the two-dimensional problem for the line source excited configurationf(y, z)= 0, whereyandzare Cartesian coordinates. Various special obstacle configurations are treated in detail. For the general case of arbitrary electromagnetic excitation, the above-mentioned transformation is used to construct the solution for the diffraction by a perfectly conducting half plane from the knowledge of appropriate scalar solutions, namely those which obey the same equations and boundary conditions, and have the same excitations, as the Cartesian components of the electromagnetic field."
"An increase in the accuracy of the synthesis of a pattern by a collinear array of equispaced radiators is obtained by expanding, in trigonometric series, the function to be generated, multiplied by a weight function1+\\varepsilon(x). When\\varepsilon(x)is a polynomial, an exponential function, a trigonometric function of the variable or a product of these, the changes in the coefficients of the expansion can be computed accurately, by using simple formulas. To evaluate the method, a numerical example related to the synthesis of a dissymmetrical pattern with sharp cutoff requirements is given and it is shown that, using the same number of terms (i.e., the same number of physical radiators), the accuracy of the synthesis and/or the slope of the pattern can he increased by a factor of approximately 20 per cent."
"The excitation and propagation of surface waves on a spherical inductive boundary are considered. The source is taken to be a vertical electric dipole. The circumferential attenuation rates of the various modes are discussed where it is indicated that the dominant mode is very similar to the trapped surface wave for a plane inductive boundary. The results appear to conflict with those of Barlow, but are in sympathy with some numerical data of Elliott for the circumferential attenuation rate of the dominant mode."
"The problem of predicting the radiation pattern for an asymmetrically illuminated paraboloid is covered in some detail. The current distribution method is given in a final form suitable for machine computation. An approximate analytical solution using scalar diffraction methods is compared with the experimental results and the machine solution."
"This paper describes the design analysis and measured performance of an antenna composed of anH-plane array of parallel waveguides having quarter-wavelength-thick transverse slots extending completely across the array. Each relatively wide nonresonant slot in this array radiates only a small amount of power, and the dimensions of the slots are relatively uncritical. The radiatedHfield from this antenna lies parallel to the transverse slots. The cosine of the angle between the direction of maximum radiation and the plane of the antenna is equal to the velocity of light divided by the phase velocity of propagation along the array. An experimental antenna was built with a radiating aperture 9 inches wide and 20 inches long. The antenna was fed from a hog horn which yielded an approximately sinusoidalH-plane illumination over the 9-inch aperture width. The power coupled from the transverse slots was varied along the 20-inch length of the aperture to achieve a Taylor aperture distribution with -25-dbE-plane sidelobes. At the design frequency of 11 kmc, theE-plane andH-plane beamwidths were5.4\\degand7.3\\deg, while theE-plane andH-plane first-sidelobe levels were -24.7 db and -24.2 db, respectively, in close agreement with theoretical expectations. The direction of maximum radiation was within0.35\\degof the design value at 11 kmc. Good radiation patterns were obtained with the antenna from 7.0 kmc, which is slightly above the cutoff frequency of the guides, to 11.4 kmc, which is slightly below the frequency at which spurious lobes are generated by the widely-spaced slots."
"An analysis for the far field of a filamentary loop antenna with nonuniform current distribution is presented. In order to obtain a possible current distribution, an analogy between a circular transmission line and a parallel-wire transmission line is made. This analogy yields a standing wave of current similar to that found on a lossy parallel-wire line. Considering only the far field of the antenna, the differential expressions for magnetic flux density are set up and the resulting equation is solved. The solution gives the magnetic flux density at a distant point from the antenna. Loops with uniform current and loop with sinusoidal current distributions are own to be special case of the general solution. To verify the validity of the assumed current distribution, the experimental patterns of a loop1\\lambdalong are compared with calculated patterns. Results indicate that the field solutions are probably applicable to loops many wavelengths long."
"Stevenson's method of analysis is extended to the case of a pair of shunt slots in the broad face of rectangular waveguide. The voltages in the slots are calculated including the effect of mutual coupling. Formulas suitable for calculation of mutual coupling are presented and the results of calculations for certain cases of overlapping quarter-wave spaced slots and nonoverlapping half-wave spaced slots are presented. Measurement of the scattering matrix of the slot pairs inside the waveguide and the radiation patterns external to the waveguide for the overlapping case tend to confirm the results of the theory. Calculations of the effect of mutual coupling on the patterns of three half-wave-spaced slot arrays indicate that mutual coupling is usually negligible for this type of slot."
"Theoretical expressions are derived for the effects of mutual coupling between two parallel leaky wave antennas which consists of slitted rectangular waveguides located in a cylinder. The expressions derived are presented in terms of the results for the mutual coupling of the same antennas but located in an infinite plane, with additional terms due to the curvature of the cylinder. The graphical presentation of the numerical attenuation constants for the cylindrical case are compared with those for the infinite plane."
"The design of slot arrays requiring nonuniform phase distributions, such as those having shaped beam radiation patterns, are facilitated by the development of slots having independent amplitude and phase control. A \"complex\" slot (which is inclined and displaced) on the broad wall of a rectangular waveguide makes it possible to control the coupling characteristics over a range in phase from zero to2\\piand over a range in magnitude from zero to unity. The \"voltage\" across the slot as a function of its orientation is found and is related to the coupling parameters used in common array design. An experimental procedure for independently verifying the amplitude and phase characteristics is described. A typical complex slot array design is made and radiation patterns are included demonstrating the accuracy and usefulness of the design procedure."
"Mutual coupling effects in a large array cause a variation in the input impedance as a function of scan angle. This variation can be reduced considerably by the use of a compensating structure which appropriately modifies the environment of the array. A two-dimensional dipole array is treated as a typical example, and its input impedance is calculated by means of a unit cell equivalent network as a function of scan angle for different environmental situations. Reasonably constant performance up to scan angles of\\pm 60\\degis obtained on use of a periodic baffle compensation structure."
"After a discussion of various types of linear electromagnetic media, a general expression for the energy density for a lossless medium is derived by evaluation of the total influx of energy to a volume element. The result reduces to the commonly used expression only if the medium is nondispersive. The physical significance of the extra energy term resulting from the dispersion is discussed, and a general expression for the stored energy of an electric network is given."
"Through the use of a transmission line analogy, a problem related to the reflection of electromagnetic energy from a periodic acoustic disturbance is solved. This solution agrees well with a numerical solution of a wave equation of the Mathieu form, which has been derived from a different model of the same problem. Subsequent experimental research has given results in good agreement with the theoretical solutions."
"An experimental swept-frequency tropospheric scatter link, with a path length of 194 miles, has been established in France between Cholet and Corbeville. The transmitter (designed by Compagnie Générale de Télégraphie Sans Fil) sweeps in a nearly linear manner from 3100 to 3600 mc and back to 3100 mc at about 10 cps. The average transmitted power is 250 watts. The receiver and data display (designed by Airborne Instruments Laboratory) sweep in synchronism with the transmitter. The synchronizing signal is derived from the carrier frequency of a broadcast station (Paris-Inter). The receiver is designed to track swept signal amplitudes down to about 4 db above noise level, and after severe fades, to reacquire signals larger than 6 db above noise level in about 1 to 2 milliseconds. Received signal amplitude is presented as a simultaneous function of frequency and time. Preliminary data obtained from the link indicate that privileged transmission frequencies exist at all times in this band at which the transmission level is about 10 db above median. The preliminary data gathered from the link are described, as well as general design features of the system."
"Requirements for a broad-band, steerable linear antenna array are given. The limitations due to grating lobes of an equally-spaced array are discussed. Results are given of the study of several different unequally-spaced arrays which have two advantages: 1) fewer elements for comparable beamwidth; 2) grating lobes and minor lobes replaced by sidelobes of unequal amplitude which are all less than the main beam. A scheme for controlling the cosine arguments in the radiation pattern formula is given which has resulted in one of the best patterns of this study of unequally-spaced arrays. The universal pattern factor was computed for an array having a set of spacings determined by this scheme. This array is capable of steering a beam\\pm90\\degover a 2-to-1 frequency band with no sidelobe above -5 db. It uses 21 elements, compared to 78 for an equally-spaced array of similar beamwidth. The results obtained indicate that further study of the controlled cosine method and unequal spacing in general should result in better pattern characteristics."
"The Van Atta reflector array is an array in which the elements are interconnected to reradiate received energy back in the direction of arrival. Scattering cross section measurements on a four-by-four Van Atta array of sixteen dipoles are presented. This array reflects over a wider angle than the typical corner reflector, but is sensitive only to incident waves in the frequency band of and having the polarization of the dipoles."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The forward scatter of radio waves from rain has been observed over a 90-mile, 2720-mc path. The observations support the assumption of omnidirectional scattering from rain. On this link rain scatter may exceed the normal tropospheric scatter signal by 15 db. This latter signal may itself be increased by the presence of thunderstorms in the vicinity. Signal level distribution during rain and no-rain conditions are presented. Among the effects of rain on a tropospheric scatter link are the increased fading rate and decreased bandwidth. The fading rate may increase by a factor of ten or more, and pulse-to-pulse fluctuations have been observed at a pulse repetition frequency of 600 pulses per second. Evidence for a decreased bandwidth is presented in the form of pulse photographs. The1.5-\\musec pulse is commonly broadened to 3 or4 \\musec and on occasions to lengths in excess of20 \\musec."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Methods for the synthesis of sector beams are presented and illustrated with examples. First a perfectly smooth and square beam, the equivalent of the maximally flat transfer function of network theory, is discussed and synthesized. It is then shown that realization of such beams by means of relatively short arrays is feasible when a certain amount of oscillation is permitted. The resulting beam approximates the maximally flat one in an almost equal ripple fashion, the amplitude of the ripple depending on the length of the array and the desired slope of the main beam."
"General analytical expressions are presented for unequally spaced arrays. These relations allow for the analysis of the nonuniformly spaced array in terms of its equivalent uniformly spaced array. The inherent broad-band qualities of the nonuniformly spaced array are discussed. Some equivalence is made between the amplitude and spatial variation in the uniformly and nonuniformly spaced array. The general synthesis problem is discussed. An array with monotonically increasing interelement spacings is presented as an example of the theory."
"There are two well-known methods which can be used to measure the self and mutual impedances of identical, parallel antennas, the symmetric-antisymmetric method, and the open circuit-short circuit method. In principle, these methods are quite simple and straightforward. In practice, however, major difficulties arise in both methods. In this paper, it is shown that by using a part of each method, the self and mutual impedances can be measured quite easily and to a good degree of accuracy."
"Experimental comparison is made for some polyrod antennas and the correspondingHE_{11}excited dielectric image line radiators on a finite image surface, dipole and reflector launched. There is a sufficient amount of correspondence in the radiation intensities to justify the use of polyrod design data in design of image line antennas. The amount of back radiation is smaller for the image line antennas."
"The flared slot is a simply constructed antenna designed to be flush-mounted in a horizontal surface. Its pattern is a moderately directive pencil beam over a 4:1 frequency band, and its impedance bandwidth is essentially that of a coaxial line-to-ridged waveguide transition. Both vertically and horizontally polarized models are discussed."
"A unique phase expression is given which allows synthesis of a wide variety of shaped radiation patterns for a linear array. The accompanying amplitude distribution is found by a stationary phase evaluation of the radiation integral and is shown to be functionally related to the desired radiation pattern. Because of the optical type of approximation (stationary phase) used to evaluate the radiation integral, the method is most applicable to antennas with large size-to-wavelength ratios."
"Theory and experimental results are presented for an omnidirectional, vertically polarized antenna. One of the developed models has 7 db gain, VSWR <1.7, and 50 kw power handling capacity in a 2:1 frequency band. The new antenna is simple in construction and has a single coaxial feed point."
"Limits of applicability of ray tracing in computing tropospheric refraction at White Sands Missile Range have been further explored. 286 comparisons were made, all for a path from radar to fixed beacon of about 45 miles and an elevation angle of 17.99 milliradians. A horizontally stratified atmosphere was assumed. Refractive index profiles were prepared from a variety of weather data, and classified A, B, C, or R, in descending order of reliability prior to ray-tracing calculations. Angle observations were made with an FPS-16 C-band radar having a quoted instrumental accuracy of 0.14 milliradian rms. Angle readings varied from 18.36 to 20.54 milliradians, with mean of 19.01 milliradians and standard deviation of 0.41 milliradians. The rms deviation of computed from experimental angles ranges from 0.28 to 0.41 milliradian for different classes of data. The ratio of this deviation to the deviation from over-all mean varies from 0.68 for Class A to 1.00 for Class R. Thus the improvement over a \"standard atmosphere\" varies from 32 per cent to 0, and correlates directly with quality of weather information. For this experiment it is concluded that most of the rms elevation angle error is contributed by atmospheric conditions. Although ray tracing methods provide a significant correction when sufficiently good weather information is available, there still remains a large uncertainty not accounted for by equipment."
"It is demonstrated that a surface-wave structure having isotropy in the plane of the structure can be operated as a lens. The index of refraction is given for a dielectric slab on a ground plane, a bed of metal posts on a ground plane and a parallel-plate structure with one plate filled with holes. The necessary radial variations in index for several Luneberg-type lenses are given. These include the conventional Luneberg lens, Gutman's modification, the rim-fed Luneberg adapted to a spherical surface and a modification adapted to a spherical surface and collimation of the rays at an arbitrary angle with respect to the plane on which the lens is mounted. An approximate analysis of surface-wave lenses based on optics is described."
"The following two-dimensional problem is considered: An arbitrary antenna is located at the origin which launches surface waves on a reactive half planey=0, x<0. It is assumed that the other half plane,y=0, x>0, is occupied by a perfect conductor. The antenna is approximated by a distribution of multipoles easily found from the antenna's radiation pattern. With this approximation, simple algebraic expressions are obtained for the ratio of the power delivered to the surface wave as compared to the power in the radiated cylindrical field."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Arrays of many elements and continuous aperture antennas are very often designed using Taylor's \"approximate\" space factor which is optimum in resolution, i.e., it offers minimum beamwidth for a given sidelobe ratio. This space factor has a number of equal level sidelobes followed by tapered lobes, the latter being necessary to make the aperture function physically realizable. For conventional antennas, these designs offer gain which, while not that of a uniform aperture, is quite satisfactory. Very long (or large) antennas with their narrow beamwidths, however, may exhibit a severe gain degradation due to large energy contained in the sidelobes. Thus the sidelobe behavior must be carefully controlled to realize the full gain available. Data are presented for the gain variation of various Taylor equal sidelobe designs, and of the modified sinx/xone-parameter family as a function of aperture length."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Absorbers for electromagnetic or acoustic waves are described, for which a good impedance match and low reflection factor can be achieved by providing a gradual transition of material constants into the lossy medium. The reflection factor can be calculated by means of a Riccati-differential equation. General conclusions from the WKB-perturbation method can be drawn for absorbers, the layer thickness of which is either very small or very large in comparison to the wavelength. For \"thin\" layers, wave energy penetrates the whole thickness of the absorber. Suitable average values of the material constants are derived to describe the performance of the panel in this case. For \"thick\" layers only the initial part of the panel is energized. The asymptotic expressions contain only the material constants of this part. The results are interpreted physically. Numerical solutions of the reflection factor for highly refractive panels with exponentially varying material constants are reported."
"Exact expressions have been developed for the gain of a Tchebycheff array as a function of the number of elements and the sidelobe level. A set of curves is presented showing gain as a function of the number of elements for various sidelobe levels."
"During two periods in May and July, I959, following strong solar flares, the signal strength of receptions at Kiruna of VLF transmissions from Rugby (16 kc) showed no or only slight diurnal variation. It is proposed that the change of the diurnal variation is due to the production by solar protons of an ionized layer very deep in the atmosphere, the electron density of which is sufficient for reflection of very long waves but too low to cause measurable nondeviative absorption in the HF band at geomagnetic latitudes lower than approximately60\\deg."
"Formulas for the ratio\\etaof received to transmitted power are examined for microwave aperture antennas at any range. It is shown that with optimum aperture illuminations the farfield range equation continues to hold fairly well in the near field down to a distance at which it implies that nearly all the transmitted power is received! However, the aperture illuminations with maximum\\eta(nearly 100 per cent) are different from the uniform, constant phase illumination which is optimum in the far-field case. The optimum near-field illuminations not only have the phase variation associated with elliptic rather than parabolic reflectors but they also have some amplitude variations. Some simple illuminations which can be realized practically by lenses and dishes are shown to be sufficiently close to the optimum cases for most practical purposes. A formula for the power density in the near field of a transmitting aperture is also derived and it is shown how to maximize the power flow through any given area of space by design of the transmitting aperture illumination."
"The high-frequency current distributions over several conducting elliptic cylinders for normal, plane-wave excitation are measured at a wavelength of 3.2 cm using image-plane techniques. The experimental distributions are compared with the Fock approximation, verifying its validity over a wide range ofkR_{0}in the neighborhood of the shadow boundary."
"The energy density spectra of transient electromagnetic fields generated by a pulsed ideal dipole source in an infinite conducting medium have been investigated for various distances from the source. A characteristic frequency\\omega_{c}, corresponding either to the peak of the spectrum or to its haft-width, is defined and shown to vary inversely as the square of distance at large distances. The behavior of\\omega_{c}with distance is a measure of the behavior of the pulse energy. Thus, at large distances it appears that the attenuation factor associated with\\omega_{c}, \\exp \\{-r\\sqrt{\\omega_{c}\\mu\\sigma/2}\\}, is independent ofr, due to the constancy of the productr\\sqrt{\\omega_{c}}. From this point of view, the transient fields do not decrease exponentially asr, but as inverse powers ofr. This should not be construed as meaning that the transient possesses an advantage over CW. The attenuation for monochromatic components of the pulse is the same as for continuous waves of the same frequency and at large distances the energy put into the high frequency components is wasted. The phenomenon is illustrated by calculations that have been carried out for the case of pulses in sea water."
"Utilizing results obtained previously for the propagation of electromagnetic waves along a plane surface having a linear spatial variation of surface admittance, an approximate analysis of the radiation properties of a certain two-dimensional tapered surface wave antenna is carried out. The radiating structure consists of a surface waveguide of finite length having a linear susceptance variation, inserted between a feeding surface waveguide with constant susceptance, and a perfectly conducting plane. The separate junction effects at the input and output ends of the taper are evaluated approximately for the case where the taper susceptance variation is gradual, and their combined influence on the radiation pattern is discussed."
"Near-field measurements on a triangular-tooth log periodic antenna reveal that two waves exist on the structure. A transmission line wave travels from the apex to the \"active region\" of the antenna and excites currents in the teeth or radiating elements in this region. These currents, in turn, launch a radiated wave which accounts for the far-field pattern characteristics of the antenna. The antenna is shown to exhibit a pronounced degree of increased directivity. Near-field measurements made through one period of operation show smooth variations of the field distributions with frequency."
"The main purpose of a radome is to protect an antenna from the weather. Many designs of radomes can be evolved which will meet the mechanical requirements dictated by such factors as wind and snow load; however, these requirements are not sufficient. The radome must also have certain electrical characteristics in order that operation of the enclosed antennas is not degraded. This paper summarizes the many electrical measurements made on rigid ground radomes to date at the National Research Council to study the effect of the radomes on the performance of radar antennas. Ground radomes made of thin single-skin, sandwich, and thick foam walls have been studied. Performance of single-skin radomes was found to be adequate for wavelengths of about ten centimeters and longer. In order to obtain maximum transmission, the skins must be thin and the panel joints must be small, few in number, and randomly spaced. Sandwich radomes provide a good design for wavelengths of five to ten centimeters. At wavelengths of three centimeters and shorter, the thick foam wall is believed to be the best solution, because in this construction joints between panels can be made practically invisible to the radiation, Transmission losses as low as one per cent have been measured."
"A theoretical analysis of an antenna consisting of a perfectly conducting semi-infinite cone excited by a thin, linear element directed along its axis is presented. Two different methods are applied; one is a Green's function method, and the other is a mode theory. By the former methods the radiation characteristics of very thin and wide-angle cones excited by a sinusoidal current element are obtained. In the latter methods the linear element at the tip is replaced by a finite cone resulting in a semi-infinite, biconical structure. The variational principle is applied to determine the effective terminating admittance, and thus the input impedances and the far-zone field. A guided wave which propagates longitudinally on the semi-infinite cone is identified and its properties are discussed."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Theoretical considerations of monopulse antisymmetrical or difference radiation patterns which have optimum properties in the Dolph-Tchebycheff sense are discussed. An approximate technique for synthesizing such patterns from linear arrays or continuous line sources is given. A highly desirable feature of the method is that the excitation function may be written as a simple modification of a (known) conventional Dolph-Tchebycheff excitation function. In addition, the method is also applicable to the synthesis of other specialized antisymmetrical patterns."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Results of experimental measurements of fade durations at the output of tropospheric scatter receivers operating at a frequency of 950 Mc are presented. The special test equipment and the test procedures required to perform the measurements are described. The accumulated time the fades are below a reference level is shown. A family of curves representing the number of fades per hour which equal or exceed a given duration, and a family of curves representing the percentage of the total fades that equal or exceed different fade durations are presented. All the data are referenced to fade margin, which is defined as the difference between the received median level and the reference level. This enables the information given in this paper to be readily applied to other systems. A method for computing circuit reliability, based on the results of this paper, is suggested."
"The theoretical development of a new method of vertical plane-beam-shaping from Wullenweber three dimensional arrays is presented along with a particular design formulated by the theoretical techniques. The method essentially consists of expanding the desired pattern in a Fourier series expansion and relating the parameters in the expansion to the parameters in the Wullenweber array. Three parameters are allowed to vary: (1) The interelement spacing (2) The diameter of the Wullenweber at each element, and (3) The amplitude or current distribution along the array. These three variables are sufficient to produce any arbitrarily shaped antenna pattern with a least-squares approximation. The antenna is basically a Wullenweber array but it is particularly unique in that the diameter of the Wullenweber changes with height so that it has a characteristic \"Coke-Bottle\" shape. The space-phasing due to the particular shape plus the amplitude taper of the elements in the vertical plane results in an asymetrical, truncated, cosecant-squared elevation pattern from the uniformly phased array. The wide band operation of the array is demonstrated through patterns made on a scale model array over a two-to-one frequency band."
"The problem of obtaining focusing from a circular array together with 360-degree scanning by frequency variation is considered. It is shown that uniform variation of the line length between elements of a tapped serpentine transmission line allows good focusing from a circular array. The radiating aperture is limited to the appropriate sector of the circle by using filters in the coupling junctions between the serpentine line and the radiating elements. The relation between bandwidth and transmission-line folding factor is determined, and limitations imposed by element coupling, element spacing, and overlapping apertures at the band edges are found. Accuracy of focus is determined as a fourth-power function of aperture size relative to diameter. Aperture amplitude distribution is related to the filter characteristics and efficiency of coupling. The design of directional filters for partial coupling is described, and the effect of the transfer phase characteristic is calculated. Performance is estimated for a sample design covering the frequency range 2 to 4 kmc with a six-foot-diameter array of 100 elements."
"Several experimental tunnel-diode rf oscillators which operated at frequencies from 300 to 8000 Mc are described. Power outputs of several milliwatts have been obtained at frequencies below 1000 Mc, 0.7 milliwatt at 2800 Mc, 0.2 milliwatt at 5500 Mc, and 0.01 milliwatt at 7130 Mc. Problems relating to oscillation frequency and oscillation buildup are treated analytically."
"A lightweight spiral antenna with high power handling capabilities has been designed. The spiral is formed by a copper tube embedded in a dielectric material and is backed by a lightweight cavity. The development of this antenna involved an extensive experimental and theoretical investigation which resulted in new data regarding power handling capabilities, maximum absolute gain, polarization, VSWR, beamWidth and efficiency."
"Recently experimental work has been performed in diode switching in TEM-wave transmission lines with a measure of success but with a minimum of theoretical investigation. In this paper theory is presented which explains: the three basic modes of diode switching, one of which is heretofore unreported; the isolation and insertion loss bandwidths; the spacing for and isolation from multiple diode switching elements; the bandwidth of the biasing lead; and the peak and average incident power that a diode can switch. It is concluded that a switch can be made having a 100-to-1 bandwidth and giving isolation greater than 20 db with insertion loss less than 1 db from 40 Mc to 4 Gc."
"This paper presents the theoretical and experimental aspects of the design and operation of an S-band traveling-wave diode parametric amplifier. Design principles were obtained by employing a coupled-mode approach, which is similar to that used in traveling-wave tube design. This theoretical approach is illustrated by deriving the gain formula for the amplifier. Other results of this theoretical investigation are briefly discussed and listed in Table I. In the light of these design requirements an amplifier was designed which possesses the following performance characteristics: Frequency range (megacycles): 3240 - 3400 Forward gain/diode (decibels):\\sim1.0Pump power (milliwatts for four diodes): 400 Pump frequency (megacycles): 6600 Reverse loss/diode (decibels):\\sim0. 25The problems involved in the design of the amplifier are discussed in the second section of the paper."
"During the past 5 years, solid-state microwave maser amplifiers have advanced from the conception of the basic idea to their present status of having been successfully used for critical measurements in highly specialized applications such as radio and radar astronomy. Design of maser amplifiers for tracking and communicating with deep-space probes and for satellite communication systems is now in progress in several laboratories. All maser amplifiers operated until the present, however, have used open cryogenic systems. The operating time for these systems with one filling of cryogenic fluids varies from about 4 to 12 hours. The process of refilling the cryogenic dewars is a particularly awkward one in view of the fact that the masers are often used at the focal points of large steerable antennas. In addition to the cryogenic difficulties, the gain and bandwidth performance of early masers, while suitable for important scientific measurements, has not been adequate for more demanding systems applications. It is the purpose of this paper to discuss some of the problems in, and progress being made toward,the evolution of maser technology suitable for a variety of systems. As suggested above, the design of closed refrigeration systems and efficient dewars is one of the more important problems which must be faced in the evolution of a practical maser technology. Examples of other advances which must be made are the following: extension of the useful frequency range for maser operation into the millimeter-wave region; improvement of gain-bandwidth product, particularly for radiometer-type operation; achievement of electronic tuning capabilities; achievement of very high gain stability, for passive detection systems which use large integration times; accomplishment of very high phase stability for use in interferometer-type tracking systems in which the basic information is contained in the phase of the signal. In addition to these electrical performance requirements, maser amplifiers must work over a wide range of mechanical positions since they are often mounted on moveable antennas. The problem of protecting the maser amplifier from the saturating effects of local signals (such as the TR leak-through pulse in a radar) already has several preliminary solutions."
"This paper reports on a theoretical treatment of the noise figure for iterative travelingwave parametric amplifiers and gives experimental data from noise figure measurements made on such an amplifier which operated at 1.7 kmc. Using information about the diodes supplied by the manufacturer (Microwave Associates) we calculated from the theory a double-channel noise figure of 1.3 db. The measured noise figure was 1.2 db,"
"A new measuring technique particularly suited to the measurement of low loss waveguide lines is described. Some measured results which employ this new technique are given for theTE_{01}transmission loss with two inch improved waveguide. Both the average loss and the random fluctuations over the 50-90 kmc band are low. The observed data obtained with long lines, one of solid copper and one all-helix waveguide, is presented."
"Recent advances in the field of passive electronic intelligence systems have required the development of high gain very broadband electro-mechanically scannable antenna systems. Consequently the need has arisen for various types of signal transfer devices. This paper describes the development of a novel rotary joint and rotary switch. Both units employ unique electrical and mechanical design techniques which provide excellent electrical performance characteristics and the capability of operation at angular velocities in excess of 3000 RPM. The rotary joint is of necessity a completely non-contacting device due to the requirement that it shall operate satisfactorily at extremely high rotational speeds. Therefore, in order to provide the desired bandwidth, in excess of 12.5 to 1, a novel capacitive coupling technique was developed which virtually eliminates the frequency sensitivity of the conventional quarter-wave choke type configuration. The second requirement for high speed switching between antenna arrays and elements has dictated a need for a four-way rotary switch. The unit is basically a cylindrical strip transmission line configuration, and operates on the quarter-wave choke principle. Theoretical and experimental investigations indicate that satisfactory operation can be achieved over a 2:l bandwidth within the VHF to S-band region."
"An investigation into a series of interferometer antenna aperture distributions is presented. Calculated and measured patterns for small 8 element and large 36 and 60 element arrays are shown with the effects of distribution shape discussed. Some distributions capable of producing interferometer patterns with sidelobes below -20 db are described."
"Non-reciprocal waveguide devices have been constructed utilizing permanently magnetized ferrite tubes. The use of ferrite elements of this geometry makes possible the realization of ferrite assemblies without the need of a magnet. For switching purposes the remanent state of the ferrite material may be reversed by the application of current pulses to a wire inserted through the tube. Utilizing this arrangement, a differential phase shift circulator has been developed which operates over the frequency range of 8.2 to 9.2 KMc. The loss between coupled ports is 0.6 db or less and the isolation between uncoupled ports is 2.5 db or greater. The circulator can be switched in less than\\frac{1}{2} \\musec. Permanently magnetized ferrite toroids have also been employed in waveguide T and coaxial geometries. Preliminary results are presented."
"It has been suggested that single crystals of yttrium iron garnet (YIG) can be used in the construction of low-loss microwave filters which can be tuned by means of an applied dc magnetic field. This paper will discuss practical broadband circuits in coaxial line and waveguide for both single-tuned and multiple-tuned band-pass and band-reject filters using such YIG crystals. One version of a band-pass filter has operated with electronic tuning from 2000 mc to 6500 mc. The insertion loss was 3 db at 2000 mc, 1 db at 4000 mc, and 0.7 db at 6500 mc, with bandwidths ranging from 18 mc to 40 mc. A packaged version of this filter will be described which utilizes a combination of permanent magnets and solenoids for tuning. The complete filter weighs less than 2-1/2 lb. and can be tuned\\pm 1000mc from 3000 mc with a power consumption of 5 watts."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"This paper seeks to prove that an analysis of a slow wave structure coupled to an electron beam as based on a likely \"equivalent\" circuit may not agree with a field analysis, in which a solution of Maxwell's equations leads to a different equivalent circuit. We first describe a typical slow wave structure by an \"equivalent\" circuit for the beam-circuit interaction. Then we solve Maxwell's equations for one of the cavities with its fields expanded in the one resonant\\pi-mode of the \"cold\" structure. We obtain an equivalent circuit for the electric and magnetic field amplitudes, as excited by the beam, which differs from the first \"equivalent\" circuit. We then solve the beam equations, excited by cavity electric field and subject to the periodicity condition. The result is a determinantal equation for the allowed phase shift per period, which is checked by a solution of Maxwell's equations with the fields expanded in the one resonant 0-mode of the \"cold\" structure. The growing waves near cutoff by our field analysis differ significantly from these waves in the likely \"equivalent\" circuit. We conclude that only the field analysis and its unambiguous equivalent circuit is reliable. Our analysis corresponds very generally to using a variational expression for\\omega, in which the trial fields are expanded in sets of resonant cavity modes."
"The design and development of an S- and C-band beacon antenna system for Project Mercury is described. Results of electro-mechanical design evaluation demonstrate the ability of this equipment to withstand both hypersonic flight within the atmosphere as well as high speed re-entry."
"This paper describes the design and operating characteristics of miniaturized cavity-fed slot antennas for use at VHF. Miniaturization of antennas leads to severe problems in impedance matching and radiation pattern control, and requires special techniques in order to maximize bandwidth. Furthermore, consideration must be given to the variation in dielectric constant with temperature for various materials used for cavity loading."
"Certain corrections to the Fresnel theory are necessary for zone plates with focal lengths of only a few wave-lengths. Formulas are derived for the gain of these zone plates as a function of the number of zones and the focal length. Theoretical values are compared with experimental results. The advantages of the zone-plate relative to a parabolic reflector/are illustrated by a proposed design for a large radio telescope."
"This paper describes monostatic and bistatic microwave systems which are capable of measuring two time-quadrature components of the field scattered by arbitrary shapes from which the amplitude and time phase of the scattered field can be easily computed."
"The task of \"boresighting\" a monopulse antenna in the fresnel region of propagation is described with two approaches to the problem. In the first case a tower method is described with its limitations. Included is a discussion of a fresnel region equation with a theoretical null position variation with range shown along with measured results. The aperture distribution considered is the sum of a uniform and sinusoidal function. A second method entitled \"Auto Collimation\" boresighting is described which employs a boresighting screen positioned at ranges in the order of a reflector diameter. For the problem of field distribution behavior, a different employment of the same basic equation is discussed. This method reduces the limitations of the fresnel region equation at points close to the aperture. Computed and measured results of the Auto Collimation method are presented. The results including advantages and disadvantages of this technique are compared to the tower method."
"The phase center distributions of four types of equiangular spiral antennas were experimentally determined at a frequency of 3000 mc to enhance the general knowledge of these types of frequency independent antennas. The usual methods that are available for determining phase centers were considered. The two probe method for examining the far field wavefront was used. However, a new type of probe antenna was developed that is capable of being made very inexpensively for either horizontal or vertical polarization."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings, Part 1, Antennas and Propagation."
"To effectively utilize circular polarization, we must be able to ensure that the radar antenna beam is in fact circularly polarized. When it is impossible to use a perfectly circularly polarized source we must use another method to obtain circular polarization on the secondary beam. If a primary feed is used that is circularly polarized on the peak of the beam but becomes elliptical off axis, then the secondary pattern will most likely be elliptical. A simple approach to determining the necessary primary feed ellipticity has been developed. The approach is applicable to reflector-type antennas whose contours are either totally or partially parabolic. Since a large number of radar antennas are in this category, the method is expected to find wide application. The new method involves measurement of the primary feed only, ad. simple conrputations to determine the optimum primary feed characteristics necessary to obtain circular polarization on the peak of the secondary beam. These results have verified the validity of this procedure for determining the optimum primary feed setting for obtaining circular polarization from reflector-type antennas."
"The radiation pattern of an array of circularly polarized elements can be scanned by a mechanical rotation of the elements since the element phase is a function of orientation. This principle has been used in the design of two different arrays of Archimedean spirals, one a \"parasitic lens array\" and the other a \"parasitic reflector array.\" The lens consists of two arrays of spirals mounted on opposite sides of a conducting plane, each spiral on one side being connected by a transmission line to a corresponding spiral on the opposite side. A feed horn is used to illuminate one of the arrays; the energy received by this array passes through the ground plane via the transmission lines and is reradiated by the spirals on the far side. If the elements are rotated to particular orientations, the incident spherical wave can be focussed, and further, the beam can be scanned if the spirals are rotated properly. The spiral reflector is a single array (using no transmission lines) mounted above a ground plane and, like the lens, is illuminated by a feed horn. It has the same focussing and scanning properties as the lens. Neither array is limited to circular polarization. With a combination of right- and left-hand elements, linear polarization can be used. Twenty-element lenses (2 by 10) and one hundred element reflectors (10 by 10) have been built and the results have verified the predicted performance."
"The microwave antenna described utilizes a trough waveguide array feeding a section of a parabolic cylinder. Performance of the antenna, a linear array, depends on several properties of the trough waveguide. Electromechanical scanning of the array is achieved by changing the phase velocity in the guide. To continuously vary the guide wavelength at a suitable rate, two methods are used: (1) rotation of symmetrical structures along a longitudinal axis within the trough waveguide, and (2) mechanical variation of the height of periodic structures located on the top of the center fin of the trough waveguide. Both methods were incorporated in short arrays, and the latter method was also used in a ten-foot long array. Successful operation was obtained with scan angles in excess of 20 degrees. Experimental data for the ten-foot array feeding a parabolic cylinder is presented herein."
"The earth and the ionosphere together form a spherical-type resonant cavity. The natural frequency of this resonator was calculated by Schumann to be approximately 10 cps. In order to test this result, it was decided to determine experimentally whether or not there might actually exist in the atmosphere signals which would lie within this frequency range, and to investigate the effects of such signals on living organisms."
"An antenna pattern synthesis method is presented that permits the approximation of desired patterns with arbitrarily prescribed error criteria. Thus smoothness, linearity, or curvature may be specified for any part of the pattern. If desired, an equal ripple approximation may also be very closely approached. The techniques developed are applicable to arrays with real excitation coefficients and to those capable of complex excitations. For the latter type of array the desired far field magnitude fit may be optimized by full use of both the magnitude and phase of the excitation. The method is semi-numerical in nature and may involve several perturbations depending on how closely one desires to approach the optimum. Several numerical examples are worked out in detail, and an experimental verification is also provided."
"The diversity, simple configuration, and mechanical and electrical advantages of the Cassegrainian antenna have made it increasingly popular as a microwave director for radar systems. In detailed analysis of this type of antenna considered for use with a precise monopulse tracking radar, unique electrical characteristics are evidenced. These characteristics must be taken into account in the system design to insure optimum monopulse performance. The space-attenuation and monopulse- sensitivity functions are developed, and the special feed-to-subreflector near-field problem is explored with a discussion of proved solutions. Periodic design comparisons are made between the opaque-subreflector-type Cassegrainian antenna and the focal-point-feed antenna system where the single aperture, be it reflector or lens, is illuminated by a feed situated at the focal point. There is an often-used technique to circumvent the inherent aperture blocking introduced by the opaque subreflector, but it is mechanically complex and is costly. The performance limitations of the mechanically simpler opaque-subreflector-type Cassegrainian must be evaluated by the design engineer before going into these costly techniques."
"The effect of shock induced ionization on electromagnetic waves is investigated by means of some propagation experiments conducted in Hotshot II, a hypersonic wind tunnel at AEDC, Tullahoma, Tennessee. The purpose of the experiments was qualitative evaluation of the relative effects of hypervelocity ionization on the commonly used frequencies, thereby verifying at least the trends indicated by theoretical studies. From measured values of pressure and temperature inside the tunnel, the resulting free electron density is calculated using Gilmore's tables and the electron collision frequency estimated. Using these parameters, the wave attenuation is computed and compared with the observed results. The experimental results in general exceed the computed values. The factors, introduced by the operation of the tunnel itself, that effect the experiment and other uncertainties related to estimating the RF parameters are discussed in the light of the results."
"A circular antenna array is described in this paper which has the following characteristics: 1. Any azimuthal pattern can be obtained which can be represented by a truncated Fourier series. 2. The main beam can be pointed to any azimuth angle. 3. The phase of the current in each element and the terminal impedance of each element does not depend on the direction of pointing. These characteristics make it possible to connect amplifiers to each element and to control the direction of pointing by varying only the magnitude of the amplifier output. The design of an array of this type and of the required amplifiers is described, and experimental confirmation is presented."
"The multidirectional antenna is a linear array which is connected to a multiplex transmission line network. The schematic of the network and array is shown. The principle of operation of this antenna is then derived from an analysis of the forward scatter of a series-exoited array, the radiating elements of whioh are connected to the feedline by direotional couplers. A travelling wave progresses from the input terminal to the load terminal giving up power at each directional coupler to the corresponding radiating element. Many practical applications or this technique are possible. particularly wherever simultaneous surveillance of a wide angular sector with the resolution of a narrow beam is required."
"A simplified description of the radiation mechanism of the spiral antenna is given, and the effects of the various parameters on the characteristics of the cavity-backed Archimedian spiral are discussed. Experimental data illustrating the effect of cavity diameter, cavity depth, conductor loading, and spiral rate of growth are offered as design guides. Finally, a spiral antenna and balun feed are described. Over an octave frequency range, ellipticity ratios of less than 3 db have been maintained over azimuth angles greater than\\pm60degrees, boresight errors have been virtually eliminated, and standing wave ratios of less than 2:1 have been realized."
"The factors influencing the power-handling capability of antennas at high altitude are considered in this paper. The physical mechanism involved, including the roles of attachment, free diffusion, ambipolar diffusion, and nonuniform field distribution in the breakdown process, is qualitatively described. These factors are illustrated by breakdown curves for various antenna configurations under both CW and pulse conditions. Normalized data-useful for estimating breakdown fields when the conditions for scaling are fulfilled-are presented. The effect of missile environment on breakdown characteristics is discussed, and an experiment that involves artificially introducing ionization near the surface of the antenna is described. Methods are then considered for increasing the power-handling capability, and typical results are given showing the increase in power that can be achieved."
"In this paper, the following new methods of analysis and synthesis of near-zone, including Fresnel-region, fields will be presented: 1) A principle of subdivision and methods of near-zone field analysis. This principle makes possible the use of far-field techniques in near-zone field analyses. 2) A near-zone field synthesis method based upon the principle of subdivision. This method bears a close resemblance to the Woodward method of far-field synthesis. 3) A focusing theorem and a second near-zone field synthesis method. This method transforms a near-zone synthesis problem into a far-field problem, therefore any synthesis method applicable in the far-field can also be applied here. 4) Fresnel-region field analysis of a circular aperture. The results are expressed in terms of a class of new functions which are closely related to the Lommel's functions of two variables. Simple method of evaluating such functions will also be given. 5) A second focusing theorem and Fresnel-region field synthesis. The synthesis is also based upon far-field methods. Examples of both near-zone synthesis methods are included. Merits of each method are also discussed."
"The development and design principles for pattern synthesis with a unique flat array (0.032 inch thick atK_{a}band) of non resonant slot radiators are described. A surface wave of the dielectric image line type is used as a transmission mode to excite a two dimensional traveling wave array of slot radiators. The beam maximum in the longitudinal (narrow beam) plane is designed to be approximately normal to the plane of the array. A dielectric image line of the appropriate size has a field in the transverse direction that decays almost identically as the amplitudes of the Fourier coefficients of typical ground mapping shaped beam patterns. Thus, in the transverse plane an array of identical slots provides the proper excitation amplitudes. Displacing the slots in the longitudinal plane provides the required transverse plane phase excitations. For a 25-1/2 wavelength transverse array, a specific\\csc^{2}\\thetatype pattern normalized to about 3 degrees theoretically can be approximated with a 0.4 db ripple. Measured patterns for an array designed neglecting mutual impedances are within 2 db of the desired pattern over a 20 db range. Theoretical ripple as a function of the number of Fourier terms is shown for illumination functions yielding\\csc^{2}\\thetatype patterns whose maxima are at 3 degrees and 15 degrees below the horizon. The curves show that it is theoretically possible to synthesize a typical\\csc^{2}\\thetapattern to a tolerance of 0.4 db with an aperture efficiency corresponding toHPBW = 90 \\lambda/D."
"Presents the opening message of the conference proceedings."
"The artificial neuron or information-processing cell was designed primarily as a component for experimental neuron-network studies. With minor additions, it could be used for perceptron-type experiments. Each cell has ten exciting and ten inhibiting inputs, and each input has a separate weight associated with it. The operation of the cell depends upon the difference, between the weighted sums of the exciting and the inhibiting input signals."
"The Esaki diode is a potentially low-cost, high-speed, two-terminal device exhibiting a short-circuit stable, negative resistance over a portion of its volt - ampere characteristic. Under suitable bias and loading conditions, Esaki-diode circuits can perform threshold logic and binary memory functions and can provide power gain when switched. The authors show several appropriately-biased diodes resistively coupled together such that bistable operation is obtained. The three-phase pulse-clock system shown maintains unilateral flow of information and also serves as an unconditional reset of the corresponding logic blocks. Transfer of information occurs during the period of overlap of adjacent clock pulses where the overlap is longer than the propagation time of the information. The propagation time is a function of the reactances associated with the circuit. The inclusion of reactive components in the coupling networks to provide temporary storage of information during switching eliminates the need for overlapping clock pulses. The capabilities of the various types of coupling will be discussed, and some quantitative results will be given in the presentation."
"Lists discussion sessions presented at the conference proceedings."
"Lists discussion sessions presented at the conference proceedings."
"Lists discussion sessions presented at the conference proceedings."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists discussion sessions presented at the conference proceedings."
"Since the first work of Blios' there has been an expanding interest in magnetic films and mangetic film memories. This interest has developed partly from the films possess, and partly from the logical and construction flexibility which magnetic films offer in memory design. "
"Presents the table of contents for the 1960 IEEE International Solid-State Circuits Conference (Digest of Technical Papers)."
"Lists discussion sessions presented at the conference proceedings."
"Lists discussion sessions presented at the conference proceedings."
"Presents the foreword to the conference proceedings."
"Lists discussion sessions presented at the conference proceedings."
"Presents the cover from the proceedings of this conference."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A system is described for home stereophonic reproduction from a single cabinet by reflection of sound from the room boundaries. The effect is emphasized by using loudspeakers which maintain a uniform cardioid directional pattern over the useful frequency range. The directional properties are obtained with acoustic phase-shift networks."
"RIAA equalization with ± 4 db bass control and ± 8 db treble control have been achieved, along with negligible hum, noise and distortion, in a transistorized stereo preamplifier developed for use with magnetic cartridges. Simple circuit modifications adapt this preamplifier for use with most magnetic cartridges."
"Speech information may be transmitted over a bandwidth one tenth of that required for the original speech if attention is directed toward reproducing the envelope of the power density spectrum rather than the waveform itself. Pitch information can be transmitted independently of the spectrum information and the two sets of signals combined at the receiving end to resynthesize the original speech sounds. In the vocoder the power spectrum is analyzed and synthesized by means of band-pass filters. The energy for the voiced sounds is obtained from an oscillator called a buzz source, and for the fricative consonants the energy is obtained from a white noise source."
"The RC parallel-T network with a transmission null at f0is described and the symmetrical lattice approach to its analysis is outlined, following a notation of Guillemin. The selection of design parameters for various principal applications, with relevant references to published work, is given. The common applications requiring a response curve symmetrical about f0, such as the single-frequency notch filter, the ac derivative network and the frequency discriminator are treated. In this class falls the feedback amplifier with a very narrow notch. The use of the parallel-T as a low pass or a high pass is covered briefly, and it is shown how a net of more complexity can be derived to give an improvement in response. Using the symmetrical lattice equations, typical examples are worked out. The resulting networks are usually three T nets in parallel, or a triple-T. A simple feedback amplifier for obtaining a response equal to an m-derived LC filter is described as a further solution to the problem. Typical feedback amplifier circuits giving either one-pole or two-pole response are presented. The detailed analysis of a two-pole RC feedback net is given, followed by practical design equations and experimental response data. The engineering problem of component selection for network stability is discussed, since this is a major consideration in designing satisfactory circuits. Frequently, stability is the only problem not readily solved by the potential user. Temperature compensation techniques are given, together with typical experimental data on temperature errors."
"Calibration of a microphone consists of measuring its response to some known characteristic of a sound field under specified conditions. Usually the open circuit voltage for a one-microbar sound pressure is determined. Calibrations in an anechoic chamber give plane wave response, while those in a reverberant room give the response to sound arriving from all directions-at random incidence. Techniques have been developed for measuring response with considerable efficiency. Calibrations can be made with pure tones or with wide-band signals such as noise or warbled tones. Complete calibration includes measurements of directivity and impedance as well as linearity of response. From the calibrations it is possible to calculate ratings which give quick and relatively fair comparisons between microphones. The RETMA Rating is particularly effective for the commercial types with impedance below 200,000 ohms. For small crystal and condenser microphones a statement of the noise threshold is more indicative of true performance capability. Although complete specification of microphone performance requires considerable information, the ratings dispel the main ambiguities in response figures arising from differences in impedance, circuits and test sound pressures."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"This magnetic recording issue of Transactions brings to mind some historical \"audio plans\" for magnetic recorders. In its first fifty years magnetic recording never was a serious rival to the disk phonograph for prerecorded music. But fifteen years ago magnetic recording seemed unique in its ability to provide uninterrupted, long playing, high quality sound, as compared to 78-rpm disks which had to be changed every five minutes. Magnetic recording is no longer unique for long playing nor for stereo. Does it have any exclusive features left? There are quite a few. Tape recording has the reputation for superior fidelity, which is retained throughout a practically unlimited life. Tape furnishes three or more channels for enhanced stereo, and even with two channels it gives better separation and lower distortion than disks. Tape cartridges are rugged, in contrast to delicate disk surfaces. They are more compact, easier to store, and easier to use. A cartridge changer gives many hours of unattended programming. The erase feature allows interesting possibilities for the sale of music, separately from the cartridge, by vending machines where one could insert an unrecorded cartridge and select the music to be recorded. An important problem has been cost. In the next few years recorded tape music may be commonplace. Let us hope that it will bring uncommonly excellent audio quality."
"The various methods of measuring noise in audio magnetic recorders are discussed, and data are shown comparing the numbers observed for the different methods (IRE Standard Methods, and others) when applied to the same recorder. This data will enable one to compare other data taken by one method with data taken by another method. The present audio specifications based only on broad-band noise are shown to be inadequate, as the equipment noise in the range of low hearing sensitivity masks any improvements which may be made in tape noise, or with the Ampex Master Equalization. A measure of relative audible noise level should be added to the present broad-band measurement."
"The most widely used techniques for recording digital information on a moving magnetic medium are return-to-zero (RZ) and non-return-to-zero (NRZ). Both techniques have some peculiar advantages and disadvantages. Although sophisticated coding methods may be utilized to increase information density, the density achievable by any method is determined by the basic resolution of the record and reproduce processes. An expression is derived for the output of a reproduce head when an ideally recorded pulse is passed over it. The output is a function of the head fringing field in the region occupied by the recorded medium, and is the sum of the outputs produced by the longitudinal and perpendicular components of magnetization. A novel technique is used to measure the relative magnitudes of the components in a typical saturated recording tape. The perpendicular component is 11 per cent of the longitudinal component and may be neglected for the practical case. From a combination of experimental and theoretical data the width and height of the reproduced pulse are computed for variable gap width, medium thickness, and head-to-medium spacing. The effect of a nonideal pulse with a finite recorded width is considered. The total output pulse width is shown to be the sum of the computed ideal reproduce pulse width and the width of the actual recorded pulse. From the curves presented, one may observe that only a slight increase in resolution can be achieved by utilizing very small reproduce head gaps. Data are presented on the measured initial magnetization characteristics of a typical oxide. The characteristic may be approximated by either an offset linear curve up to about 60 per cent of saturation or a fourth power curve up to about 30 per cent of saturation. Data are also presented to show the effect of previous magnetization upon the transfer characteristic. The record process is analyzed with a step-by-step technique utilizing measured data on the head field and oxide magnetization characteristics. It is shown that both the shape and location of the recorded pulse are functions of the medium magnetization characteristic, the record head gap width, the record current, the medium thickness, and the head-to-medium spacing. The effect of each of these variables is computed. The computed results are verified experimentally. It is shown that under a wide range of conditions the reproduce pulse width obtained from a given head is approximately five times the width of a pulse ideally recorded by the same head. It is further shown that when the spacing between head and medium is larger than the gap width, the resulting over-all reproduced pulse width is approximately seven times the head-to-medium spacing. Previous recording history of the medium has a significant effect upon the pulse location. Data presented indicate that the record current must be approximately twice the current required for medium saturation to make the pulse location error unmeasurable."
"By improving the mechanical properties of magnetic recording heads and recording media, it has been possible to demonstrate consistent recordings at information densities up to 40,000 cycles per inch. No fundamental magnetic limit to the maximum recording density has been detected. The major mechanical limitation appears to be the effective head-tape separation due to mechanical surface roughness of the medium. Tape noise arises from both body and surface effects, but their relative importance is not clear. High-frequency recording in the region of several megacycles introduces no special problems with heads of suitable design, such as the outside coil head. Based on present experimental results, a maximum recording density of the order of 100,000 cycles per inch is predicted."
"Magnetic recording is recognized as a superior medium for stereophonic entertainment, but its popularity has been handicapped by inconvenience of threading and high cost. A new approach is a tape cartridge of very low cost, which is compact, and fully protects the record. The cartridge is completely automatic on a machine designed for its use, and yet will operate manually on present tape recorders."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"At the present time, there are in operation a large number of sound amplification systems installed mainly for the purpose of speech reinforcement. Many of the existing systems appear to have been installed without regard for the acoustical requirements for high speech intelligibility, and the phrase \"public-address system\" has become almost an anathema to sensitive listeners. Bolt Beranek and Newman, Inc. has become involved in the design of sound amplification systems in conjunction with other aspects of architectural acoustics. A number of principles have been developed as guides for the design of speech reinforcement amplification systems that provide a high degree of intelligibility and naturalness. These principles will be discussed and illustrated by the designs of several typical speech reinforcement systems, including those installed in a large exhibition hall, a reverberant church, a stockholders' meeting room, and an auditorium designed for maximum \"natural\" reinforcement by proper acoustical design."
"A considerable number of observations as well as formal experiments in High Fidelity Stereo sound are reported. Three-channel stereo with corner flanking speakers has been shown to achieve accuracy in both tonality and geometry. A large center speaker with small outriggers is observed to lack both tonality and geometry. A center speaker in the corner with wall outriggers is observed to produce a deeply curved stereo geometry. Limiting speakers to a bass range down to 300 cycles may preserve geometry, but not tonality. Overly large bass speakers lead to a spatial and delay separation of bass and treble events. There is an optimum bass speaker size. Wide spacing of speakers offers improved accuracy of stereo geometry. The array cannot normally exceed the speaker spacing, but because of the focusing effect of the center channel, it may be much narrower than the speaker spacing. Numerous minor observations of radiation angle and polar response point up the desirability of corner speaker placement. Large speakers may be placed at low or high level, but the dynamic range of small speakers is limited. Corner speaker placement affects apparent room size and may be advantageously employed to improve the reverberation effects. Wide Stage Stereo demonstrations using speaker spacing up to 50 feet or more are compared to home applications with 15-foot spacing. High Fidelity Stereo is both high fidelity and stereo, and entails meeting the requirements of both."
"A simplified version, but nevertheless complete system, of a phonetic typewriter which types in response to words spoken into a microphone has been described. One of the many extensions of the original system is a means for compensating for the effects of the speed of talking. Instead of transferring information into the spectral memory in fixed-time increments, as was done in the original machine, the transformation of information is determined from a correlation with significant changes in the speech spectrum with respect to time. In the improved machine, coincidence detectors compare the current with the preceding speech spectrum. No information is fed into the spectral memory until a significant change has been detected in the speech spectrum. The system provides an automatic time compensator for variations in the speed of talking in a speech recognition machine."
"The production and perception of speech are characterized by certain constraints. The efficiency with which speech information can be communicated is considerably dependent upon how successfully these constraints can be incorporated into the transmission apparatus. This paper undertakes to review some of these relations and to indicate their relevance to communication. It attempts to point out the extent to which vocal and auditory constraints are applied in existing speech compression systems such as the Vocoder and the resonance-Vocoder. The theory underlying the latter suggests savings in channel capacity greater than tenfold. To date, however, only moderate success has been achieved in transmitting speech of acceptable intelligibility and quality over such systems. The last part of the paper describes a transmission scheme which is part conventional and part resonance-Vocoder. Through this compromise, some of the band-saving features of the latter can be retained while its intelligibility and quality can be improved upon. The hybrid system occupies a total bandwidth of approximately 600 cps and requires a signal-to-noise ratio comparable to that of conventional voice channels. Articulation tests performed on the system yield mean scores ranging from 74 to 84 per cent for monosyllabic words."
"The editor comments on engineering compromises made to commercialize consumer stereo systems."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"In the last two months, the Chairman has talked to many PGA members located in most of the active audio areas throughout the country. Two major impressions have emerged. The first is that the PGA has met a real need and should continue to do so. The second is that many PGA members, including some who were formerly active, have become apathetic. It is the extent of this apathy that is disturbing. Anyone who has been active in technical society work can readily visualize the very large amount of individual and collective effort that went into making the successful history of the PGA I have so briefly summarized. Scores of people did their bit. Many performed beyond their call of duty. A few were dedicated to their work. He finds that even some of the dedicated are discouraged; tired, for the most part, by the very unreasonable effort required to get members to do even a small part of the bit they agreed to do. The symptom is readily discerned. The diagnosis and prognosis are difficult. One thing seems clear. If the membership feels there are needs the PGA should continue to meet, then realism dictates that we recognize that these were met in the past only by the active support of the members. Your national Administrative Committee, local officers of PGA chapters and their sponsors will attempt during the coming year to evaluate the needs of the PGA and to activate programs that will meet these needs."
"For use mainly in audio systems, the instrument plots on a CRT screen or chart recorder the amplitude of the difference-frequency tone vs the lower excitation frequency in CCIF intermodulation distortion measurements. The unit furnishes two swept equal-amplitude tones with a selected audio difference frequency to excite the tested system. Readout is on a modified audio-frequency spectrum analyzer which remains tuned to the difference frequency. The automatic excursion provides considerable test time economy in quality measurements of such devices as loud-speakers which exhibit wide variation in intermodulation with excitation frequency. Point-by-point techniques, in addition to being tedious, run the risk of missing critical conditions. With slight modification, the unit is also capable of plotting the lower third-order distortion component at (2f1-f2) vs excitation frequency. A swept spectrum analyzer and means for single-line plots of frequency response curves are also integral components of the equipment. Switching facilities permit alternate displays on successive scans of any two of the modes of operation. For example, acoustic output and IM distortion vs frequency of loud-speakers may be plotted alternately for rapid comparisons."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Work with corner horn speakers has led to a philosophy that there is a narrow range of optimum size limited by performance on the one hand and cohesion of bass and treble events on the other. In the design of a new speaker system of size smaller than these limits, the horn principle was abandoned for the bass section but continued to be used for the midrange-tweeter functions in the interest of lowest distortion. The bass section is of the enclosure type with a tubular back exhaust, corresponding in principle to the Bass Reflex but differing in the high inertance of the port. Adjusted empirically, the response of the new speaker resembles that of a three-way corner-horn reference system. The new speaker may be used against a wall, but as in all speakers affords best performance in a corner. It may be used for any of the two or three positions of a stereo array, including the bridged or derived center output."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Since the inception of radio broadcasting, the control of audio level has been a constant problem. This paper discusses some of the shortcomings of presently-used circuitry in limiting and automatic gain control amplifiers and describes a new approach to the problem of level control, which provides both slow gain increase and decrease along with fast limiting action while maintaining wide frequency response and extremely low distortion under all operating conditions."
"The transformer-coupled Class B amplifier is investigated with regard to harmonic distortion caused indirectly by the self-resonance of the transformer primary. For undistorted Class B operation, the short-circuited flow of even harmonic unbalanced mode currents is essential. When these harmonics are at a frequency at which the transformer primary is close to self-resonance, the flow is impeded and harmonic plate voltages will appear. A slight circuit asymmetry or nonlinearity will permit the harmonic voltages to couple into the load, as harmonic distortion. By a similar effect negative feedback circuits can increase distortion by an amount for which formulas are given."
"Electronic circuit designs are most commonly made by \"analog\" (or \"breadboard\") methods. This is particularly true in arriving at the desired gain-frequency response characteristics. The mathematical approach to circuit analysis has suffered from the distinct disadvantage of involving the solution of large systems of simultaneous equations with complex, frequency-dependent coefficients often requiring days to solve by hand calculations. The ability of digital computers to solve large systems of simultaneous equations at high speed and without mistakes allows the audio engineer to solve many problems faster by using classical methods than by use of the breadboard technique."
"The signal from a pre-amplifier or tuner is supplied to the input terminals of the power amplifier by means of a voltage-dividing network, the element in parallel to these input terminals being a photo-sensitive resistor of new design. Facing this photo-resistor in a lightproof enclosure is a neon lamp connected to the output voltage of the amplifier. Because a neon lamp ignites at a fixed voltage, the value of the photo-resistor resistance will be decreased as soon as this voltage is reached. Consequently, the input signal to the amplifier will be decreased as well, making overload substantially impossible."
"Present various humorous 'definitions.' Reprinted from Appliance Manufacturer, April, 1959."
"It seems to the author admirably demonstrated in a recent article by Camras' that economy is no longer a primary problem with standard tape. How it is time for someone to get rid of the one remaining bogey: hiss. Even the 7-1/2-ips tapes played with a 90-microinch head exhibit altogether too high a hiss level, and the published data on the CBS system doesn't promise much. Surely some of this astronomical packing density obtained by Goldmark, Mee, Goodell, Guckenburg, Rrophy, et al., could be traded for greatly improved signal-to-noise ratio. I know there are a number like me who would nelcome a high-quality, compatible cartridge. I only hope it isn't too late to avoid another 'War of the Speeds.'"
"Provides several short items that may include news, reviews or technical notes that should be of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The piece 'Audio terminology' present humorous 'definitions' for audio engineers. The piece 'Stereo commercialism' comments favorably on Peter Tappan's cogent observations in \"The Editor's Corner: Stereo Games\" (ibid., May-June 1960). The present trend cannot do otherwise than leave a benighted and disillusioned public i n its wake-to the detriment of all ethical workers and organizations."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Playback localization plots, similar to the technique employed by Steinberg and Snow in the Bell Laboratory experiments of 1933, afford perhaps the only means of evaluating quantitatively the performance of representative stereophonic systems. In the present tests, which deal with two-channel systems comprising a center bridged loudspeaker in addition to the two flanking loudspeakers, it is seen that the performance of wide-angle loudspeaker arrays can be optimized to give accurate localization over a large listening area. As an aid to the evaluation of test data, brief discussions of loudness and time-delay effects-the essential factors providing localization-are included."
"Magnetic tape may be offered in cartridge form at a price competitive with phonograph disks. Cartridges of different sizes are designed either for high quality or for maximum tape economy. All of these will operate on present-day machines, as well as on automatic designs. A cartridge changer allows records to be played in sequence. The erase feature offers interesting possibilities for sale of pure music separate from the sale of cartridges."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A literature study and listening tests have been conducted to contribute to an understanding of the stereophonic effect as a function of frequency. The literature study failed to reveal tests showing loss of stereophonic direction for any part of the audio spectrum and pointed to arrival time difference of the transient portion of sound waves as the significant contributor to stereophonic perception. Tests employing actual program material with a specially developed Stereo Spectrum Selector showed the extreme lower frequencies to have equal or superior directional content to the higher frequencies. The perception loss at any frequency may be of a quantitative nature rather than strictly related to certain wavelengths. Test results and consideration for future developments suggest adoption of full frequency stereophonic systems."
"Subjective listening tests have been completed which indicate that stereo in any of the forms compared is preferred over monaural, but normal stereo from two full range speakers well physically separated is, in all probability, the most preferred."
"The primary aim of this work has been to develop a stereophonic system for recorded music, using a small, inexpensive and practical cartridge with magnetic tape as the information carrier. In order to make the cost of the recorded cartridge comparable with a disk containing an equivalent amount of music, it was realized that basic developments in magnetic recording such as efficiency of recording and reproducing techniques were necessary to meet the packing density requirements. This paper describes developments which have led to a recorded cartridge one fifth of the volume of a disk and capable of playing more than one hour of stereophonic sound uninterrupted. In order to obtain the desired signal-to-noise ratio and frequency response to 15 kc, radical improvements have been made to tape, recording system and playback head. In conjunction with this work, a fully automated tape machine has been developed. The machine is equipped with a changer-type mechanism and accommodates a number of cartridges which are played and rewound completely automatically, one after another, furnishing music for several hours. The machine requires no manual threading and has a rewind cycle of less than twenty seconds for an hour-long tape."
"Four stereo systems are compared: 1) 3 microphones, 3 independent transmission means or \"tracks,\" and 3 speaker output or \"channels,\" designated 3-3-3. 2) 3 microphones, 2 sound tracks and 3 outputs using a bridging or \"derived\" center channel, designated 3-2-3. 3) 2 microphones, 2 tracks, 3 outputs with derived center, designated 2-2-3. 4) A stereo microphone pair in a single housing with stereo separation derived by directional response of the 2 microphones, using 2 sound tracks and 3 play back speakers with derived center, designated SD-2-3 (SD for \"stereo-directional\" applied to the microphone) Each of the 4 systems is shown to contain mixtures of all signals in each channel. Crosstalk may be defined as the inadvertent transfer of a signal from one channel to another. Signal mutuality is the natural consequence of one microphone in a stereo array detecting signals pertinent to other microphones. The magnitude of differences between the 4 types of stereo studied are found to be small-of the order of less than 4 decibels. Delay effects are similar in the first 3 types, but where a single microphone location is used and dependence is on directional pattern for stereo separation, the delay effects are different. A separate study of the combined effects of sound delay and quality was made to corroborate the suspected delay effect of the so-called \"stereo microphone.\""
"Provides a listing of current society officers."
"A push-pull transistor amplifier has been developed using a matched pair in the output stage, with a minimum number of components and requiring no transformers."
"A set of 80 filters is used to divide a random noise input spectrum of an audio system into 25 cps increments. An identical set operating as a spectrum analyzer provides a similar function on the system output. By means of an automatic regulating system using solid-state electronics, each of the 80 loops is closed independently, thus providing a unique control system compensating the audio system spectrum and equalizing disturbing resonance phenomena. This method has been successfully applied to the control of a vibration system spectrum where mechanical resonances at the exciter table produce high Q peaks and notches. The degree of spectral flatness reveals that adequate compensation is possible for typical resonance phenomena occurring over a wide frequency range."
"A new microphone, the Electro-Voice Model 642, is described. Designed particularly for television and motion picture applications where the usable microphone working distance must be a maximum, the model 642 has improved directivity and high sensitivity. The improved directivity is achieved by functioning as a first-order gradient microphone at bass frequencies and as a line microphone at higher frequencies. A detailed description of the directional characteristics is included."
"Fourier series is generally considered to be one of the most basic mathematical tools of the communications engineers; when experimental support is sought for the theoretical conclusions obtained, it has the advantage of having readily available source equipment in the form of sine-wave generators. In many cases, however, due to the characteristics of the signals under study, the analysis into other base functions would result in a reduction of expression complexity and a better insight into the problem. This is demonstrated on a specific example, in which the damped-oscillatory voiced speech sounds are expressed by means of complex-exponential base functions. The method of measuring the pertinent coefficients is given; the nature of the analyzing equipment, which is also used for synthesis, is described briefly, and experimental results, including synthetically obtained approximations of the original signals, are presented. While speech signals are used to illustrate the method, the latter is applicable to other signals as well."
"Pole-zero concepts, with the associated techniques of signal flow graphs and root locus plots, are introduced and used in the analysis and synthesis of integrated loudspeaker-amplifier systems in the lower-frequency region. The case of the infinite baffle system is treated in detail, and formulas are developed for general voltage and current feedback. This is then simplified into a design method using only RC elements, and the compensation of the high-efficiency woofer in an undersized enclosure illustrates the method."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Presents the front cover and table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The response of electromechanical transducers can often be greatly improved by proper electrical termination that compensates for their coil impedance. The results of a detailed analysis are presented for two practical transistor amplifier configurations which produce negative output impedance. A push-pull power amplifier, based on this analysis, uses the bias stabilizing elements of the output stage to obtain the necessary positive current feedback. The three-stage circuit delivers, without a transformer, 12 watts into 8 ohms or 8 watts into 16 ohms. The output impedance is adjustable from plus 1 ohm to either minus 7 or minus 14 ohms. This amplifier has been used successfully in an all-transistor stereophonic high-fidelity system."
"Withdrawn March 2000. Terms that apply to linear, passive, reciprocal, time-invariant networks are defined. The terms apply to mathematical concepts that represent idealizations of physical phenomena. Thus, the definitions apply to idealized models that are useful in describing properties of physical networks. The question of whether or not a certain term is applicable to a particular physical situation is left to the user."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"This paper presents a review of the properties, principle of operation, and implications of the tunnel diode. Following a brief description of the unusual characteristics of this device, a discussion is given of the mechanism which leads to the negative resistance. Experiments showing the transition from the tunnel diode characteristic to that of a high-voltage avalanche diode are exhibited. The electrical characteristics of tunnel diodes are outlined making use of the small-signal equivalent circuit which represents the behavior in the negative resistance region. Diodes designed for high-frequency operation are described and examples are given of circuits which demonstrate their behavior as switches, radio receivers, and microwave oscillators. In connection with a discussion of the temperature dependence of these devices, experiments are described which demonstrate the importance of phonons in determining their characteristics at the temperature of liquid helium"
"This paper points out that in the prediction of storage time one needs to know only a single fundamental device parameter, the storage time constant Ts. Several methods of measuring Ts, are considered and compared both theoretically and experimentally. A single nonoscilloscope method of measuring Tsis discussed and its theory presented. This method holds out the best promise for the ability to predict the storage time of very fast transistors. It is therefore now possible to predict large signal transient response of transistors on the basis of small signal nonoscilloscope measurements."
"The equivalence of the differential-equation and integral-equation approaches to the solution of the nonlinear traveling-wave amplifier problem is shown rigorously. The equations can be transformed one into the other without making any additional assumptions. The space-charge expression developed on the basis of considering the electron distribution in phase space is shown to give the same form for the space-charge weighting function as a space-charge expression based on the electron distribution in space. Efficiency calculations are compared for the two methods and the agreement is excellent. Corrections to earlier calculations are included. The effect of radial electric field variations due to the circuit is considered and it is shown that the efficiency for large streams is reduced in direct proportion to the square of the field reduction function."
"In this paper, a small-signal analysis of a microwave oscillator discussed by Watkins and Wada1is presented. This tube, the helitron, has an electron beam describing the trajectory of a helix between two concentric cylinders. Interaction is with a TEM mode supported on the inner cylinder, and the beam is focused by having a potential difference between the cylinders. This has been termed anE-type tube. TheE-type tube had originally been conceived as a device for exchanging electron potential energy of an electrostatically focused beam for RF energy. In this manner, one would expect to obtain the high efficiencies associated with anM-type tube, without requiring a magnetic field. Watkins and Wada presented experimental results in their paper, and they indicated that the theory that had been developed did not predict the observed behavior. In particular, it was stated that if the propagation constants were those of anM-type tube, the measured starting current would be one-fiftieth of the theoretical starting current. The small-signal analysis of theE-type tube developed in the main body of this paper has yielded two interesting results: 1) The electrons bunch along the direction of rotation, and lose kinetic energy. In this sense theE-type tube behaves similar to theO-type oscillator. Electron motion transverse to the dc path, which is important in theM-type tube, is not important forE-type operation. 2) Space charge forces tend to increase the bunching along the direction of rotation. This results in a negative value for the space-charge parameter, and an attendant reduction in starting current. Growing waves can exist on an electron beam that is electrostatically focused between two conducting cylinders, even without the presence of a circuit field. In this sense theE-type oscillator is similar to theM-type tube."
"Generation-recombination noise in semiconductors in thermal equilibrium is treated from the standpoint of thermal fluctuations in equivalent electrical circuits. For the general volume recombination model, a method based on network reduction is presented which allows one to calculate the spectral density of the electron and hole fluctuations without solving for the spectra of the fluctuations in occupancy of the recombination centers and traps. The method is extended to a surface recombination model, thereby avoiding the ambiguities found in previous formal treatments. It is shown that the concept of ambipolar diffusion, the location and spectral density of the random sources, and the spatial correlation of Fourier coefficients of carrier density fluctuations all have simple significance in electrical terms. Using transmission line techniques, the generation-recombination (GR) spectrum is calculated for a two-level semiconductor where recombination occurs at opposite plane surfaces. This new result is examined in detail for the limiting cases approached when the recombination process is 1) volume-limited, 2) surface-limited, and 3) diffusion-limited. It is shown that in the first two cases, the spectrum is identical with that obtained from a zero-dimensional analysis provided the time constant is properly defined. For the diffusion-limited case, however, the spectrum varies as 1/ω3/2at high frequencies, and at low frequencies the noise is 5/6 that predicted by the simple theory. The new result is shown to compare favorably with measurements reported previously by Hill and van Vliet."
"A series of 20-ampere silicon n-p-n transistors and three-terminal n-p-n-p switches have been developed, and their characteristics are compared with respect to high-current switching applications. At the present time, collector-emitter voltages of the transistors are generally lower than those of the switches, which may exceed 400 volts. The n-p-n transistors are somewhat simpler to produce than the n-p-n-p structures. However, the ultimate current-handling capacity of the latter type of device is greater, because of the uniform current density. The saturation voltage drops at 20 amperes are comparable, being in the order of one to two volts. The switch has a distinct advantage in the turn-on speed, while the transistor has the equally important advantage that the base retains control for turn-off."
"Novel electron guns, in which a conical hollow electron beam is projected at a large angle to the axis into a coaxial deflection region, were tested. The guns have a triode structure so that the perveance can be varied easily. The strong deflection increases the effective perveance of the beam and makes the trajectories insensitive to current variations. In the form of a device with the gun at a large radius and projecting the beam inward, the electron paths are sensitive to scattering in the gun. The inverted gun, projecting the beam outward, is relatively free from this difficulty. The systems generally behave as expected, and should be quite useful for initiating variable-current hollow electron beams in various available focusing arrangements."
"A gas switching tube commonly known as a TR tube is an RF energy switch, the operation of which is a function of incident power level. Switch operation is achieved by gaseous ionization. The major problem in the design of gas switching devices has been that of achieving simultaneously a short recovery time and a low arc loss. This problem has been eliminated by the development of the device described in this paper. The design objective was to produce a self-contained TR window for operation at very high powers. The arc loss developed by conventional tube design at these high power levels would be sufficient to melt any known window material. The design of this device is such that the ionizable gas blanket takes the form of a thin-walled cylinder suspended in the iris in a dielectric cylinder. This configuration presents a smaller volume of gas with a reduced cross section and a much shorter diffusion length. These changes result in lower leakage power, faster recovery time, and reduced arc loss. As finally developed, the window does not involve glass-to-metal or ceramic-to-metal seals. The problem of metal sputtering or outgassing is therefore eliminated. By a unique spring pressure support, the problem of strain developed by differences of thermal coefficients of expansion is eliminated. The open-ended design of the cylinder provides excellent facilities for cooling the window. Prototype units have been successfully operated in \"L\" Band at power levels considerably in excess of 15 mw peak power and 30 kw average power. These units exhibited recovery times of 5 to 20 µsec with high-level attenuation of 26 to 35 db and arc loss below the level of present measuring techniques, i.e., < 0.02 db. A practical window for these high powers with a loaded Q of less than 1.5 has been fabricated."
"The tee equivalent circuit for junction transistors has been modified to take account of electric field in the base region. This electric field is the result of a graded impurity density in the base region of the transistor. It is shown that a graded base improves the high-frequency performances of the common base stage; however, the improvement in common emitter performance is considerably less because of the increased \"excess\" phase which accompanies the improved high-frequency performance. The complex hybrid parameters are calculated for the common base and common emitter configurations; these calculations take into account the parasitic interterminal capacities of the transistor. The common emitter calculations are compared to measured data, and substantial agreement is obtained."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"This paper concerns the theory and structure of an amplifier involving growing waves."
"By precisely shrinking the glass envelope around the helix to a controlled depth, thus providing an exceptionally low thermal impedance to the outside of the envelope, and passing a suitable coolant over the envelope, it has been found that the power dissipation capability of helix circuits can be extended by more than one order of magnitude. A qualitative analysis indicates that the heat transfer characteristics should be as good as the experimental results indicate."
"Several new information storage targets have been developed for use in storage tubes and camera tubes. One, a double-sided mosaic, is useful primarily in storage tubes. The others, based upon the use of thin self-supported films of magnesium oxide, can be used in many tubes. Having first found application in image orthicons, they provide markedly improved performance and longer life."
"Expressions are developed to calculate the theoretical power output of traveling-wave amplifiers using any type of RF structure. Calculations are made for helix-type tubes and it is shown how to calculate the power output of tubes using more dispersive structures in terms of calculations made for helix tubes. The principal factors accounting for higher power output of dispersive structures are presented and discussed. The gain and bandwidth of forward-wave helix amplifiers are derived from the small-signal theory as functions of frequency and it is shown that the gain in db times the frequency bandwidth is a constant as a function of helix length for high\\gamma_{0}a'and the gain times the bandwidth squared is a constant for low\\gamma_{0}a'."
"This paper describes measurements on the noise behavior of a long, magnetically focused electron beam with a convergent Pierce-type electron gun having a shielded cathode. It is found that the excess noise phenomenon is initiated by a scallop-beam amplification and is essentially dependent on the nonlaminarity of electron flow in the beam. The beam reaches a state of high thermal equilibrium which may be caused by strong electron-electron interaction. An estimation shows that this should be theoreticaly possible."
"The unique characteristics of the EFP-60 secondary-emission pentode make it possible to utilize this tube in a novel cathode follower circuit in which the impedance transformation action is \"enhanced\" by connection of the secondary-emission dynode back to the cathode. An analysis of this circuit in two slightly different forms indicates the possibility of achieving cathode-follower action with virtually unity gain and consequently high input-to-output impedance transformation ratio. The results of the analysis are verified by experimental data. Some aspects of the circuit as applied to millimicrosecond pulse work are discussed, and conclusions are reached with respect to optimization of tube characteristics for this particular type of application."
"Summary form only given, as follows. This abstract reports the results of a feasibility study aimed at the development of an amplifier in the frequency range 35-40 kmc with noise figure less than 15 db. The designs built and tested have emphasized the use of circuits which are large for the frequency range, the sizes varying from ka = 0.1 to ka = 0.4. This is the largest practical size due to the propagation of the TE11 coaxial mode between helix and shield. The smallest tubes have used confined solid beams and have attained noise figures of 13 db. The large tubes will use hollow beams of the Currie-Forster and Magnetron Injection type in the hope of securing lower noise figures and better focusing. Data are given which describe the construction of the tubes and the experimental results obtained. The noise figure values will be correlated with theory, using the methods of R.W. Peter."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"A basic analysis is given of the close-spaced vacuum diode operating as a direct converter of heat to electricity. This analysis is arranged to yield the characteristics of this engine when operating at maximum efficiency. Values of the various parameters are chosen to produce conservative design charts. For a fixed collector temperature and fixed collector work function, two representative design charts are given. These charts permit the designer to estimate very rapidly the optimum performance characteristics, such as efficiency, power to load, current, voltage, conductance of load, etc., as a function of emitter temperature, over a range from 1200° to 1700°K."
"A theory is developed which explains the operation of a traveling-wave tube when operated near the cutoff frequency of the slow-wave circuit, including the effect of two circuit waves instead of the usual one. The theory is normalized in a manner analogous to that used in more conventional analyses and a first-order expansion about the cutoff frequency is used, making a relatively small number of curves applicable to a large number of cases. The relationship between this theory and the three-wave theory usually used in traveling-wave-tube analysis is shown, and they are in agreement when the system is operated far from the cutoff frequency. Numerical results are given for a range of parameters which might be useful in traveling-wave-tube design, and an excellent agreement with published experimental results is shown."
"The current Ioffthrough a germanium p-n-p-n switch in the OFF state is described as a simple function of the control current Itin its third contact. The device is of a so-called \"sandwich\" structure, the third contact being the outer edge of the middleplayer. The voltages considered are sufficiently small so that avalanche multiplication can be neglected. It is derived that:I_{off} = \\frac{1}{2}{(a+ I_{t} - \\sqrt{(a+ I_{t})^{2} - 4(b-cI_{t})}}a, bandcare device parameters determined by the physical and geometrical structure. The conditions for switching into the ON state are given and the temperature dependence of the parameters is predicted. The experimental results are found to be in good agreement with the design theory."
"The microscopic size of the contact between two crossed superconducting wires offers a practical way to make a class of superconducting devices which are operated at high speed by very small currents. The critical current through the contact can be modulated by a current flowing along one or both of the crossed superconductors. Several device possibilities are presented."
"Traveling-wave tube helices can be supported at every turn by shrinking a nonprecision glass envelope directly on to the wires. Contact of glass and wire can occur continuously or at discrete flutes. The glass-shrinking procedure and the equipment used are described in detail."
"A grid-controlled secondary-emission electron multiplier amplifier tube has been designed and built which can deliver an output pulse of five amperes into a load impedance of 100 ohms, with a rise time of less than 10 mµsec and a transit time of less than 20 mµsec. The measured transconductance of the tube is 600,000 µmhos, and it can provide a positive output pulse with a positive grid input. The tube is constructed as a series of concentric cylinders, with the grid and cathode structure of a 6AG7 pentode serving as a controlled emitter source. Outside the last grid, a series of four louvered, concentric dynodes are placed, with the first dynode serving as the missing pentode plate. Outside the last dynode are a screen-mesh collector and a fifth dynode. From the fifth dynode, a solid cylinder, the output pulse is taken. The concentric geometry has several advantages. Space-charge difficulties are decreased because the current gain at each dynode may be kept at a high level without increasing the current density in proportion. Furthermore, the geometry is suited to a coaxial input and output for obtaining optimum rise-time characteristics."
"Color television cameras which are now widely used require three separate camera tubes to supply the simultaneous primary color information transmitted by the compatible system. This paper describes a developmental tricolor camera tube of the vidicon type for use in a single-tube color camera. The ability to generate the three simultaneous signals is achieved in the tricolor vidicon by means of a multiple-electrode target structure having three interlocking groups of color-sensitive strips connected to separate output terminals for each primary color. A single low-velocity electron beam scans the photoconductive target. No special requirements are made on the beam with respect to focus or scanning accuracy. Registry of the three signals is inherent in the design of the target. The performance of the developmental cameras which have been constructed to date does not equal the three-tube image orthicon camera from the standpoint of sensitivity, color fidelity, and uniformity. In its present state, the tube is potentially useful for industrial and scientific purposes where sufficient light is available and structural defects do not obscure the information desired. To extend its range of application, the development of more sensitive photoconductors and improved methods of fabrication are required."
"The large signal energy exchange process both with and without space charge are studied by extending techniques used to compute multiple-cavity klystron bunching. The mechanics of this interaction at a klystron gap and in a traveling-wave type of system are examined in detail and the effects of space charge and of velocity spreading on efficiency are discussed."
"Various authors have presented analyses of crossed-field amplifiers. Generally, these analyses have dealt with very thin electron beams in the presence of crossed-fields or with beams in which the bulk ac charge density within the beam has been neglected. It is the purpose of this paper to develop a field-theory analysis which is applicable to both thick or thin beams and which includes the effect of space charge. In place of the usual approximate match at the input boundary plane, a rigorous variational technique is presented, which considers the effect of the cutoff waves on the amplitudes of the propagating waves. This enables one to solve the input boundary problem for the first time insofar as the amplitudes of the propagating waves are concerned, without determining the individual amplitudes of the cutoff waves implicitly. As opposed to the usual approximate match, which is only valid for a thin, unmodulated entering electron stream, this variational method is valid for both thick and thin beams, as well as unmodulated or modulated beams entering a crossed-field slow-wave interaction region or entering a crossed-field drift region. The paper presents propagation constants obtained for thick beams based on the author's model. The variational procedure, which is a valid technique for other models as well as other types of beam devices, has been applied to one numerical case involving a thin beam and the results are compared with the results of the usual approximate match. A modification of the complex amplitudes of the excited waves, even in the case of thin beams, is noted."
"Direct measurements were made of the electron-beam noise parameters using a modified Currie-type gun. The noise parameters were measured as a function of the electric field in the vicinity of the cathode. The S parameter was found to be strongly influenced by this field in the Currie-type gun, but the parameter\\pi/sis relatively unaffected."
"A transistor operating with an inductive load may develop a collector-emitter short circuit when the transistor is suddenly turned off. The secondary breakdown of the collector characteristics determines the susceptibility to this type of failure. The secondary breakdown is greatly influenced by the reverse base current. The reverse base bias voltage and impedance affect the reverse base current in a predictable manner. The failure mechanism can be explained in terms of the characteristics of a four-layer device. Transistor requirements and design considerations are examined. For safe operation, the secondary breakdown current should be greater than the maximum operating current. When the reverse base current is minimized, the transistor is also protected. Several circuits which prevent the flow of reverse base current are presented."
"A design method for crossed-field guns based on a space-charge-flow solution in crossed fields is given. By using the method of analytic continuation in the complex plane, it is shown that it is possible to find the exact form of the electrodes required The design results in a gun similar to the French \"short gun\" with the great advantage that the current emitted from the gun and the current density at the cathode can be predicted. It is also shown that by making certain approximations to the exact space-charge-flow solution, a new type of gun can be designed, a \"long gun\" which can have extremely high convergence. The theory for this latter gun is extremely simple and the electrode shapes can be given entirely in analytic form."
"EXPERIENCE with a special design gas discharge tube, which has a kovar tubulation, indicated that a contaminant was appearing in trace amounts inside the tube during shelf life. Data are presented to support the proposal that the contaminant is hydrogen. A proposed mechanism of contamination follows. Water vapor in the air reacts with the kovar to produce hydrogen which then penetrates through the kovar into the tube interior. The surface of the kovar can be protected by a nickel chemi-plating process so that the device contamination is reduced to a negligible level even under accelerated conditions."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"Switch tubes with 100 and 256 elements have been developed for data-processing applications. Simple space-charge and deflection-defocusing considerations indicate that in order to obtain maximum current output, the tube should be as small as possible. However, mechanical considerations and the finite size of the beam crossover limit the amount of reduction. Aluminum targets are evaporated directly on the ground surface of the multielement header. The 100-element tube is 2 1/4 inches in diameter, 9 inches long, and provides a maximum target current of 3.0 ma at a modest 2-kv accelerating potential with reasonable deflection sensitivity. The 256-element tube has the same diameter, is 11 inches long, and provides 0.75 ma of output current at 2 kv."
"In a conventional Pierce-type gun, the anode aperture causes a potential reduction in the cathode-anode region from the ideal Langmuir potential distribution. For low-voltage gating of the electron beam, a mesh grid of spherical shape (conforming to an equipotential surface) is used in front of the cathode. When this grid is operated at the Langmuir potential depicted by its relative position, there is a difference in the potential gradients on its two sides. This difference causes a lens action at each mesh element which results in a displacement of the actual electron trajectory from the ideal laminar trajectory in the region beyond the anode. A means for calculating these displacements as a function of distance along the axis is developed. As the grid lenses are divergent, the images of the mesh elements in any plane beyond the anode are larger than those for ideal laminar flow, resulting in a current density distribution which differs from that of the ideal beam. A means of calculating the current density profile by summing the effects of the grid lenses is devised, and the method is applied to a sample gun design to illustrate the effect on the current density distribution."
"This paper describes the application of a ferrite-tunedX-band klystron to produce very wide-band frequency modulation with exceptionally low accompanying power variation. By perturbation techniques, a theoretical analysis of the magnetically tuned klystron is made in terms of the static and dynamic intrinisic properties of the ferrite. The observed operating characteristics show good agreement with the predicted behavior. The design of a practical magnetically tuned X-band klystron for frequency modulation application is discussed in detail. Designs which included a fixed bias field transverse to the tuning field allowed frequency deviation over a 600-Mc bandwidth to be obtained with very good linearity at modulation frequencies below 500 cps. The change in power was less than ± 6 per cent. Another model permitted modulation frequency components up to 50 kc but tuning bandwidth was reduced to 300 Mc."
"A four-terminal germanium p-n-p-n switching transistor is described. In an appropriate circuit the device has useful switching gain for both the turn-on and turn-off operations. A pulse of one polarity turns the switch on, and a pulse of the opposite polarity turns it off. In the absence of triggers, the state is maintained. Equivalence to a pair of complementary conventional transistors in a direct-connected, common-base emitter-follower regenerative circuit is shown. The collector junction is common to both transistor sections so that saturation is simultaneous. Saturation current is kept small in one section, and the switch is turned off by withdrawing the small saturation current. Expressions are derived for switching gain, and requirements on device parameters are obtained. Common-emitter gain for one transistor section must exceed the ratio of load current to off-trigger current. Device structure is described. A combination of alloy, diffusion, and post-alloy diffusion techniques is used for fabrication. One transistor section with a thin base has high common-emitter gain, and the other has moderate gain. Switching performance data are given. A load current of 20 ma at 20 volts is switched with 2-ma pulses. Trigger pulse durations of the order of the switching time are required. Switching times of about 100 nsec are obtained."
"A physical model of the compensation phenomenon in space-charge reduced shot noise is discussed in some detail and applied first to a planar diode of infinite spacing short-circuited to ac effects. Analysis of both the time response and frequency response shows that parameters of the potential minimum are very important to the degree of noise compensation or over-compensation, and for certain parameters the internal feedback mechanism of returning charges may cause a self oscillation without external stimuli, or in other words a building-up to saturation levels of noise phenomena in these frequency ranges. For other parameters of the minimum there appear to be very complete compensation phenomena possible, but practical parameters for this were not found in the infinite spacing case. The infinite spaced short-circuited diode gives results in exact agreement with the frequency domain analysis of the open-circuited diode as analyzed by Siegman and Watkins. Some additional approximations may be made in this analysis for qualitative explorations, particularly important being the consideration of only a single velocity class of noise perturbation. The short-circuited diode of finite spacing is analyzed in both the frequency domain and time domain, and an approximate correction to the above results found as a function of total transit angle across the diode. In particular, the factor produces appreciable decreases in the reduction factor in the vicinity of certain transit angles across the diode, and as the Tien dips occur in these general ranges, the finite diode spacing is believed to be a strong candidate for explanation of these dips."
"The Ubitron is a high-power traveling-wave tube which makes use of the interaction between a magnetically undulated periodic electron beam and the TE01mode in unloaded waveguide. The electron-wave interaction exhibits the same type of first-order axial beam bunching characteristic of the conventional slow-wave traveling-wave tube; hence, it can be used in place of conventional O-type interaction in extended interaction klystrons and electron accelerators, as well as traveling-wave tubes. Experimental results are presented for the simplest physical embodiment of the Ubitron, which consists of an undulated pencil beam in a rectangular waveguide. Two of the unique features of this tube are very broad interaction bandwidth which results from the absence of a dispersive slow-wave circuit, and variable interaction phase velocity--hence, variable saturation power level. Among the physical embodiments of the Ubitron are a number of higher-order mode waveguide and beam configurations. These include plane, coaxial, and circular waveguides, all supporting the TE01mode, interacting with magnetically undulated sheet, hollow and cylindrical beams, respectively. The advantage of these configurations, which have not yet been tested experimentally, is that they provide a very large interaction area for beam placement. This property, plus the fact that the peak interacting field is far from the waveguide walls, makes the Ubitron an interesting prospect for high-power millimeter wave amplification."
"A detailed analysis of a diffused junction photodiode is presented in which the illumination, monochromatic or broad-band, is applied to the diffused face. The electric field produced by the impurity distribution, assumed exponential, assists the transport and collection of minority carriers created by photons absorbed in the graded region. The theoretical study covers both the steady-state and the transient response, and takes into account the effect of surface recombination velocity. The presence of the built-in field increases the photocurrent and reduces the dark current compared with homogeneous base diodes. For p-n silicon photodiodes with 5-micron base widths and acceptor concentrations of say, 2 × 1018atoms/cm3at the surface, photosensitivities of approaching 0.01 ampere per lumen may be achieved. The transient-response analysis considers the extrinsic delay imposed by the time constant of the junction capacitance and the load resistance, and also the inherent delay caused by the transit time of the minority carriers. With moderate or high load resistances, the extrinsic delay is much larger than the transit-time delay. However, for comparable graded- and homogeneous-base photodiodes, the capacitances of graded junctions are lower, and therefore the transient response is improved on this account. The graded junctions also are shown to have greatly reduced transit-time delays because of the built-in field effect."
"A diffused base, diffused emitter, n-p-n silicon switching transistor has been developed for high-current applications such as switching magnetic memories. The transistor is designed to operate as a switch at the 0.75- ampere level. For a collector current of 0.75 ampere, the large signal current gain is 20 and the saturation voltage drop 4 volts. The breakdown voltages are 75 volts collector-to-base, and 6 volts emitter-to-base. The unit shows fast switching characteristics. The rise, storage, and fall times are each of the order of 0.1 µsec. It has a common emitter unity gain frequency greater than 50 Mc. The transistor employs a localized emitter produced by photoresist techniques and oxide masked diffusion. Lead attachment is accomplished by compression bonding. The silicon wafer is bonded through a molybdenum intermediary to a massive copper stud. The design theory of the device, and the variation of device characteristics with temperature are given. The applicability of this devices to RF amplifier service is also discussed."
"Avalanche breakdown is defined in terms of the diode's electrical characteristics as well as the internal physical processes. Using the latter definition, and the basic diffusion equation, breakdown voltage is rigorously computed for various diffused junctions. The calculation process is described and similarities to both linear and abrupt junctions are pointed out. Graphs are presented showing breakdown voltage as a function of diffusion parameters for both germanium and silicon. Intermediate charts used in the calculations are shown also. These give maximum electric field in junction and normalized breakdown voltage for families of diffusions."
"The velocity-dependent action of crossed electric and magnetic fields can be used to sort the electrons of the spent beam of a klystron or traveling-wave tube into two or more velocity classes, and to collect each class of electrons at a potential appropriate to its velocity. Secondary electrons produced at the collection surfaces do not return to the interaction space of the tube because of the nonreciprocal action of the crossed fields. An experimental tube permitted two-segment operation with 20 per cent of the beam power dissipated in the collector at small signals. Velocity sorting that permitted operation near this percentage of beam power over a considerable range of RF signal levels was observed. The major limitation was found to be migration of secondary electrons within the collector region from low-potential to high-potential electrodes, and this process prevented the depression of the collector power below 20 per cent of the beam power."
"Spurious low-frequency oscillations similar to those reported by Cutler have been observed in the form of large amplitude modulation of both the RF output and the collector current of klystrons utilizing high-perveance electron beams. This modulation, which appears typically as sawtooth-like relaxation oscillations with frequencies ranging from 10 cps to 100 kc, was observed to occur spontaneously only if the operating pressure was lower than a critical threshold (\\approx 1 \\times 10^{-7}mm Hg). Experiments are described which were designed to investigate this phenomenon using dc beam testers. Evidence is presented which indicates that the oscillations are due to a relaxation back and forth between two possible solutions to Poisson's equation which both satisfy all boundary conditions. One of the possible solutions corresponds to the existence of a virtual cathode within the beam, resulting in a partial reflection of electrons. Experimental evidence indicates that positive ions play an important role in triggering the relaxation. Both theoretical and experimental evidence are presented which point to relaxation instabilities of the type described as a potential hazard in utilizing depressed collector operation for improved efficiency of high-perveance microwave tubes. The same potential hazard exists in the use of periodic electrostatic focusing."
"The application of some new periodic focusing techniques to the backward-wave oscillator is discussed. An oscillator utilizing a hollow electron beam was constructed at S-band. A periodic electrostatic focusing method was used with considerable success, and an octave tuning range was obtained. A periodic magnetostatic focusing method was attempted with less encouraging results. Some interesting effects were observed when the periodic focusing techniques were applied and some of these are described."
"Equations are developed and graphs are presented, showing a functional relationship between electric field and space-charge widening and also between reverse bias voltage and space-charge widening, for diffused diodes. Planar geometry, with the diffusion made from a constant surface concentration (C0) into material of constant impurity density, is assumed. The voltage vs space-charge width relation is presented graphically for the case of silicon. Graphs for other materials are not included, since they would differ from the silicon graphs only by a constant in the voltage axis. These graphs illustrate that for small reverse voltages the junction may be considered as being essentially linear, while for large reverse voltages it may be considered as an abrupt junction. A graph is provided which may be used to gain a qualitative indication of the electric field distribution within the space-charge region. This graph also gives an indication of the transition of junction behavior from nearly linear to nearly abrupt as the reverse voltage is increased."
"The present state of the art of depressed-collector design is reviewed, and the characteristics of various designs are discussed. A novel design is proposed with desirable characteristics of most present designs but without the common disadvantage of adding to the size and weight of the tube. In the new configuration, the collector is placed off the axis of a magnetic pole piece, whose fringing fields serve to provide, in a simple way, the asymmetry needed to prevent the return of secondary and reflected electrons from the collector region. The performance of the new collector is evaluated experimentally, both in CW and pulsed operation, and is found to be promising. The device is readily adaptable to a rugged, simple collector for a commercial tube. The possibility of modification of the design to include velocity sorting is discussed."
"After a review of other related work and our own initial work, a nonreciprocal-loss, traveling-wave-tube circuit consisting of a series of re-entrant cavities coupled through ferrite-loaded apertures is described. For the configuration discussed, which is of the periodic magnetically focused variety, some measured characteristics of a possibly typical circuit (one with a cold pass band for the desired interaction mode of 20 per cent width centered near 9 kMc) are as follows: 1) a loss ratio of nearly 10 to 1 in db at band center dropping to about 4 to 1 in db near the band edges, 2) a ratio of backward loss to usual forward gain per unit length adequately larger than unity, and 3) small and practically negligible changes in the phase velocity, interaction impedance, circuit-matching characteristics, and peak gap axial periodic-focusing magnetic field from these same properties in a non-ferrite-loaded circuit. Mention is made of the use of ferrite for obtaining reciprocal loss. Finally, the possible application of the ferrite-loaded-aperture non-reciprocal circuit in modified form to other kinds of traveling-wave interaction devices (parametric amplifiers and masers) is noted."
"The practical application of masers is often hindered by saturation effects of the maser material. Any strong signal frequency (e.g., the transmitter pulse of a radar system leaking into the maser) will cause saturation. This paralyzes the maser for a period of time, too long for most intended applications. In this report, a method is described which has been used in desaturating a four-level ruby maser. The saturation is caused by equalizing the populations of levels one, two, and three of the maser crystal by the leakage of the transmitter pulse, in addition to the action of the maser pump. The application of a desaturation pulse between levels one and four will then desaturate the maser restoring the excess population density between levels two and one. In a cavity maser, full recovery of the amplification capabilities has been achieved within less than 1 msec after the maser has been saturated. Repetition rates up to 120 cps are tolerable."
"When the injected carrier concentration is not small compared to the equilibrium concentration, drift and diffusion processes interact, and an inductance is developed in the base region. This phenomenon has been analysed by calculation of the small-signal impedance of a PIR diode. Simple expressions have been obtained for the case\\omega \\ll 1as well as\\omega \\gg 1, where ω2is the product of the radian frequency and the diffusion transit time. For intermediate values of ω, the impedance contains an integral which has been expressed in terms of a tabulated function. Curves are presented showing the diode impedance as a function of frequency and forward bias. For low bias the reactance is capacitive, but with increasing bias, provided the frequency is not too high, the reactance becomes inductive. The resistive component also shows a frequency dependence. The maximum inductive reactance occurs when\\omega \\approx 1and theQdoes not exceed 1."
"Presents the cover/table of contents for the proceedings."
"Presents the back cover of this proceedings volume."
"This paper describes an X-band backward wave oscillator using the electrostatic focus principle applied to an interdigital line as described by Hergenrother and Bowers last year. The tube operates over the frequency range of 8.5 to 9.6 kmc with a minimum power output of 20 milliwatts and can be voltage tuned by altering a single electrode voltage. The tube is of metal and ceramic construction and has a waveguide output projecting from its side which may be used for supporting the tube. The use of electrostatic focus has permitted a weight reduction of 75% over a corresponding magnetic focus tube resulting in a net weight of1\\frac{1}{2}lbs. The design of the interdigital line will be described and performance data curves for the tube will be presented."
"A pair of backward-wave oscillators employing Karp-type rf structures and having a combined tuning range of 70 to 100 kMc have been developed for the Signal Corps. These tubes, of metal and ceramic construction deliver one to ten milliwatts of cw power while operating at a beam density of 3 amps/cm2and a maximum beam voltage of 3000 volts. A 2000 gauss focusing field for the confined flow electron beam is supplied by an integral permanent magnet. The electrical design considerations of the rf circuit are discussed and the theoretical results are compared with final tube performance. During the devdopment phase of the program, twelve demountable tubes were tested. The design of the demountable tube is unique; has allowed great flexibility to the experimental program and sacrificed nothing with respect to processing schedules or final operating conditions. Constructional features of this demountable tube are described as well as the final tube designs. To obtain suitable cw output in this frequency region it was necessary to protect the wires of the ladder structure from direct bombardment by the use of a beam splitter element. In order to achieve greatest efficiency and maximum output, considerable attention was paid to the reduction of circuit and window losses. Window losses of 2 to 3 db and circuit losses of 6 to 10 db were achieved. Gross power fluctuations over the tuning range were reduced in magnitude by the use of a bulk conductive ceramic in the termination to the rf circuit. This termination is described and its electrical characteristics are presented."
"This paper describes the development of a 2-milliwatt, ultra-low-noise, wide-band traveling-wave tube intended for front-end receiver operation. Methods employed to achieve minimum tube noise figures as low as 2.5 db and broad-band noise figures of less than 3.5 db in the 2500-to-3700- megacycle frequency range are described. Such critical factors in low-noise performance as the cathode, beam-impedance transformation, and rf input sections are discussed, and the reduction of beam noise through proper shaping of the low-potential drift region adjacent to the cathode is considered in detail. The paper also discusses electron-gun design, favorable launching conditions for hollow electron beams, and the magnetic-field configuration required for optimum low-noise performance. In addition, a novel beam-focusing technique is described which permits a considerable reduction in the size, weight, and dc dissipation of the focusing solenoid with no adverse effect on the low-noise performance of the tube. The development of this low-noise traveling-wave tube is sponsored by the Advanced Research Project Agency, with the Rome Air Development Center, Griffis Air Force Base, N.Y., as the monitoring agency."
"Satellite environments impose several special requirements on microwave telemetry transmitting tubes, such as long life, high efficiency, and light weight. A microwave amplifier will be described which is designed to meet the following requirements: 10 watts power output, life greater than 10,000 hours, efficiency greater than 30%, weight less than 1.0 pound, and rugged construction to meet shock and vibration requirements. The basic tube is a forward-wave S-band traveling-wave tube amplifier which accomplishes electron-beam focusing by electrostatic means. The tube exhibits greater than 30 db gain so that it requires only a few milliwatts of r-f input to drive it to saturation power output. To achieve high efficiency, the electron beam is collected at a beam potential below that of the average helix potential. Whn the tube is used as an oscillator, feedback is accomplished by passing a fraction of the power output through a tuned cavity to drive the input, thus achieving high frequency stability. By adjusting the loaded Q of the cavity, the tube can be made electrically tunable over a range of ± 10 mcs by varying the cathode-helix voltage."
"This paper describes the development and performance of a low-noise parametric amplifier of the electron-beam type which operates in the vicinity of 1300 mc. This tube is capable of achieving double-channel noise performance equivalent to a residual noise temperature less than 100 degrees Kelvin. At the same time, it provides a unique combination of high stable gain and wide bandwidth not attainable with solid-state parametric amplifiers. The operating principles of the quadrupole amplifier are reviewed briefly as a foundation for an understanding of the performance of this type of amplifier. The development problems encountered at L-band frequencies are discussed along with the solutions reached. A unique solution to the problem of coupling the signals into and out of the tube with minimum loss and over a substantial bandwidth is illustrated. A brief discussion of various applications will point out the advantages and limitations of the quadrupole amplifier in practical systems."
"Analysis predicts that the gain-bandwidth product of a single cavity maser is fixed by the material parameters and the filling factor. Kuyl has shown that the negative L and C of the solid-state maser may be used to advantage in increasing the gain-bandwidth product of a coupled cavity maser. The present paper describes the experimental verification of this. phenomenon for both one port and traveling-wave masers using coupled cavities. The experiments were conducted at X-band with active solid ruby resonators. The ruby was operated in the push-pull mode with a magnetic Q of 80. The gain-bandwidth product of a single cavity maser of this type is 100 Mc. This value is increased to 250, 450 and 1000 Mc for amplifier gains of 20, 30 and 40 db respectively, when two active coupled cavities are used in a one-port maser. Note that the gain-bandwidth product is not constant but depends upon the magnitude of the gain."
"The ability to grow epitaxial films of germanium and silicon on substrates of these materials permits major improvements in the performance of semiconductor devices. In this paper the design of transistors and diodes using epitaxial film material is discussed, together with predictions of the improvements in performance that may be obtained. A brief description is given of the pertinent properties of films deposited epitaxially on germanium and silicon substrates and of the techniques used in the fabrication of epitaxial devices. Experimental results are given on the performance of epitaxial diffused transistors made by these techniques from both germanium and silicon."
"The \"closed-tube\" process for the epitaxial vapor growth of Ge by the Ge-I2disproportionation reaction has the advantage of ease of tending and high purity. The \"open-tube\" process offers more flexibility in doping and better thickness control. In either case, the Ge produced is comparable in most respects to melt-grown Ge and is suitable for device applications. Alloyed and diffused junctions in vapor-grown Ge are equivalent to similar junctions in melt-grown Ge. Junctions grown from the vapor are not always similar to junctions grown from the melt; for example, impurity concentration gradients may be varied more widely. Because of the relatively low temperatures involved and the growth mechanism itself, various kinds of masking and matrix formation are feasible."
"Using a vacuum of about 10-6mm, single crystal silicon films have been evaporated onto a silicon substrate. Source and substrate temperatures and the rate of deposition are critical parameters in attaining epitaxy with the substrate. Where the source silicon is heated in a crucible, the crucible material is important. Physical imperfections, doping and electrical characteristics of the films are discussed, together with devices made from them."
"Single crystal films of germanium and silicon have been grown on suitably prepared substrates by the hydrogen reduction of the respective tetrachlorides. The problem of obtaining single crystal growth is shown to be a major function of substrate surface preparation, temperature of substrate and of the tetrachlorides. Factors affecting conductivity type, resistivity and film thickness are discussed, together with measurement techniques. Current limiters and other devices made, utilizing the single crystal films, are discussed and results presented."
"Single crystal silicon deposits on a heated silicon substrate have been obtained from the reduction of trichlorosilane by hydrogen. Commercially available trichlorosilane can be Used without further purification to get n-type silicon deposits as high as 40 ohm cm. Surface preparation to get good epitaxy involves chemical etching followed by hydrogen reduction of native oxide immediately prior to introduction of HSiCl3, into the hydrogen flow. Good silicon deposition rates thus far encountered are optimal at 40-80 microns per hour, but can be increased by designing to minimize gas turbulence. Techniques of the process, including consideration of controlled doping will be discussed."
"A new analytical method of designing M-type crossed field electron guns will be described. These guns are based upon an exact space charge flow solution obtained a number of years ago by Pembank, Brillouin and others. The actual design procedure is essentially the same as for \"Pierce Guns,\" and the precise electrode shapes are obtained by a method of conformal mapping and a subsequent numerical calculation. Two types of guns result from this procedure. The first, somewhat similar to the French \"short gun\", has been constructed and extensively studied. This gun is characterized by an almost complete absence of sole current. Approximate expressions relating current, voltage and magnetic field have been derived for this gun and experimental values are within a few percent of these calculations. Visual observations indicate the shape of the beam in the gun to be essentially as predicted by theory. A convergence of approximately 7:1 has been obtained with this gun. A second type of gun, based on an approximation to the exact flow solution is possible. This gun is characterized by an extremely high convergence and operates at a somewhat higher magnetic field than the short gun. A gun of this type has been constructed and appears to give a fairly well defined beam with approximately the predicted current."
"The purpose of this experiment is to demonstrate the feasability of separately driving two Amplitrons from a common source and to combine their individual rf output power into one common terminal. Although operating Amplitrons in this manner has long been considered feasible, this is the first experimental setup to demonstrate such operation. A QK630 L-Band Stabilotron was used as the driver source. Its power was split in a tee-section, each arm of which was connected through an isolator and directional couplers to the input of the QK520 L-Band Amplitrons. The output of the Amplitrons are connected together through a tee-section to a common output load. The directional couplers are of the type that permits the simultaneous monitoring of incident and reflected powers. A coaxial phase shifter is provided for in one of the input arms to assure that the rf output power of each Amplitron arrives at the output tee-section equi-phased in order to add up properly and not end up returning as reflected power through the other Amplitron. Monitoring of the reflected power in the directional coupler was found to be a very sensitive way to adjust the phase shifter."
"A screen duplexer is mainly composed of a total coupler and a series of cylindrical gas tubes in the coupling window plane, in parallel to the shorter side of the waveguide. When transmitting, the microwave energy ionizes the gas tubes and partly reconstitutes the waveguide wall. The energy is directed to the antenna. When receiving, the electrical field is too weak to ionize the tubes. Microwave energy is transmitted to the secondary section of the coupler where the receiver is located. Those tubes have to withstand high temperatures, they must absorb an as small as possible energy, and have a low recovery time."
"Under a development contract between Bomac Laboratories, Inc. and the Signal Corps Electronic Laboratories, the BL-221, a 4.3 mm packaged magnetron with pulsed power in excess of 10 kw was designed and fabricated. This tube has been successfully operated at duty cycles up to .0005 over a range of pulse widths from .03 to .3 microseconds, and at pulse repetition rates from 1670 to 16,700 c.p.s. This paper discusses the design in moderate detail, the techniques employed in its fabrication, and test results of typical samples. In achieving this accomplishment, the state of the art has been extended in a number of directions simultaneously. The BL-221 development resulted in a more rugged tube, lighter weight, smaller overall size, and higher power output than any 4 mm magnetron previously produced in this country. This development concentrated on certain inherently desirable features of tube construction which tend to make it more shock and vibration resistant, and contribute to longer life, higher power, and more compactness. Features of construction include: (1) Replacement of all glass members with ceramics, except for the output window. (2) Design of a compact \"E\" magnet and improved magnetic circuit. (3) Use of Phillips type emitter. (4) Application of internal getters. (5) Ingenious method of electrical centering of cathode during operation."
"A high-power S-band duplexer has been developed, in which power activated switching is accomplished through the mechanism of secondary electron resonance (multipactor) rather than through gas discharge. Advantages of the multipactor discharge, which occurs in high vacuum (10-9mm Hg), include low noise, very long life, and short recovery times of the order of an RF cycle. The multipactor discharge occurs in a plane-parallel, high-voltage gap within an RF resonator, if the frequency, field strength, and gap spacing are related as follows: 1) Electrons, accelerated by the electric field, traverse the gap in one half RF period. 2) The impact energy of the electrons is such that the secondary emission ratio is larger than one."
"A rapid and accurate method of tracing electron trajectories in electrostatic fields is useful in the design of many electron devices. In the procedure described, the fields of particular electrode systems are found with a precision resistor network designed for axially symmetric problems. The field data from the network is in the form of a potential not convenient for numerical calculation of electron trajectories. Two numerical methods are used. in the first method, the r-coordinate is written in a Taylor's series neglecting third and higher order terms. The second derivative of r in this expression is found from the general ray equation. The values of potential and field components along the trajectory are calculated by numerical interpolation and differentiation of the field data."
"Data on the VA-125, an S-band traveling wave tube, will be presented. This tube uses a cloverleaf interaction circuit which is characterized by a relatively high interaction impedance. The beam used is magnetically confined at 1.85 micropervs beam perveance. Interaction occurs over a fairly large voltage range and data has been obtained from 90 kilovolts to 130 kilovolts beam voltage. Efficiency data obtained on five models of the VA-125 type having differing numbers of reduced length sections at the circuit output will be shown. Efficiencies of 28% obtained with a uniform circuit are shown to be increased to 47% with four reduced height sections. In addition, the power bandwidth of the tube has been increased from 7% to above 14%. The performance of this tube at S band has resulted in peak powers in excess of 4.0 megawatts and average powers of 8.0 kilowatts. The efficiencies quoted compare very favorably with klystron efficiency at these frequencies while having bandwidths double that obtainable with currently available stagger tuned klystrons."
"Cylindrical cavities coupled together by long circumferential slots in their common walls have been shown to be a suitable circuit for wideband high-power traveling wave tube amplifier. A single sever tube has been designed for the following characteristics: Beam Voltage ......................100 kv Beam Current ...................... 60 amp Small Signal Gain ................. 30 db Small Signal Bandwidth ............\\sim 18%Peak Power ........................ > 1.5 Mw Details of the construction and the characteristics of the various components will be given. The slot staggering introduced to break up the slot resonance pass-band (backward) has been completely effective and shows the adequacy of this technique for future work."
"The Hughes Microwave Tube Division has recently achieved 30% bandwidth in a periodically focused, traveling-wave amplifier which delivers in excess of several kilowatts output power with 43 db gain. The circuit employed is a variation of the coupled cavity structure. Hence, this development represents the first successful combination of a wide bandwidth, usually associated with the fragile helix circuits, and the power handling ability of the coupled cavity approach. The performance of this device is unique in that useful gain is achieved over almost the entire cold pass band of the circuit. Although the full capabilities of this slow wave structure are not yet known, recent experimental results indicate the possibility of 60% bandwidths at any frequency from L-Band to K-Band."
"This paper describes an X-Band periodically focused traveling-wave tube which yields 100 kw peak power with less than 100 mw RF drive at an electronic efficiency of 22%. The average RF output power is in excess of 500 watts at over 50 kw peak across a 1050 Mc bandwidth. The output power variation for constant drive under saturation conditions is 1.2 db over a 1000 Mc bandwidth. Freedom from oscillations is achieved over a 30% voltage range by the use of multiple severs and perturbation techniques on higher order modes."
"The average power capability of beam type microwave amplifiers is limited by the intercepted beam power density in the interaction region. In order to increase the area of the slow-wave structure adjacent to the beam a novel circuit consisting of an inner and outer coaxial structure suitable for interaction with a hollow beam has been developed. The combination of this circuit and a hollow-beam gun of the magnetron injection type has resulted in a traveling-wave amplifier with very unusual characteristics. The Hughes Microwave Tube Division has developed a hollow-beam traveling-wave amplifier using these principles, which provides 100 kw ot peak power, with 10 db gain, over a 10% bandwidth at X-band and possesses a 25 kw average power capability. Moreover, the use of a high perveance hollow beam has resulted in a low voltage design with high C operation. The characteristics of this amplifier are similar to solid-beam amplifiers utilizing coupled-cavity type slow-wave circuits, with the important difference of providing a tremendous increase in the average power capability."
"This paper describes the mechanical and electrical features of a 23-inch TWT package for ruggedized airborne service. The package consists of a hollow-beam air-cooled tube and a foil solenoid. The package has a nominal power output of 300 watts CW in the range of 500 to 1,000 Mc. The package is 23 inches long and has an outside diameter of3\\frac{1}{2}inches. The maximum weight is 38 lbs. Several novel features are incorporated, such as a thermal interlock switch, isolated helix, and a transverse air-cooling system. The RF structure utilizes a tape helix supported by three ceramic rods. The electron gun is an immersed hollow-beam type. Cathode current densities are in the order of 0.8 amp/sq cm. A barium-tungsten dispenser cathode is utilized."
"A procedure for the design of a gridded converging beam electron gun is described. This procedure has been used to design several gridded guns in the perveance range of0.1 \\times 10^{-5}to2 \\times 10^{-6}. The characteristics of these gridded guns are compared with the design objectives. A method of calculating the grid control characteristics is developed. This-method utilizes charts compiled from measurements made in an electrolytic tank and the space charge potential distribution and yields both the grid drive and cutoff voltages. Grid control characteristics as determined by using these design charts are compared with those measured for experimental guns."
"This paper describes a method for the evaluation of semiconductor device reliability in very short times by progressively increasing the stress level of the test until all the devices have failed. This technique enables an approximate evaluation to be obtained in a time of one week with about fifty devices. The technique may be utilized to predict the long term, operating, reliability of devices by the development of an acceleration curve of failure as a function of the stresses used. This acceleration curve has been found to have the formf(\\bar{S})= a\\logt + bwhere\\bar{S}, t, a and b are, respectively, the stress for 50% failure, the time, and two constants characteristic of the device. For the particular case of temperature as stress, the relationship is,t= A \\exp (\\frac{-E}{k\\bar{T}})where\\bar{T}is the temperature for 50% failure and E is an activation energy."
"This paper describes the design criteria of a diffused base mesa transistor capable of power output of 15 watts at 100 mc and 5 watts at 200 mc. Efficiencies of approximately 75% have been achieved as a 100 mc oscillator. Recent developments in the area of improving the reproductibility of the diffusion of impurities into silicon are reviewed. A method involving a \"sealed box\" for boron diffusion is outlined and the results of its use explained. Techniques concerning the application of high conductance metal layers to the base and emitter areas are described. Aluminum thicknesses of approximately 70,000 angstroms have been achieved by evaporation. Alternate methods of providing contact layers are discussed."
"In the planar design of diodes or transistors, the device is fabricated to its final shape during the diffusion operations, rather than during a mesa operation subsequent to diffusion. The planar process involves the application of a suitable coating on the silicon surface prior to the diffusion operations so that the junctions emerge from the bulk of the material under the coating and are protected from environmental contamination. Two types of devices made by the process will be described: a planar diode and a planar NPN transistor. Dopants used in both cases are boron and phosphorus and the lateral limitation of the diffused layers is obtained by oxide masking of suitable shape. The outstanding property of planar units is the very tight distribution of diode reverse currents over a large sample of units. Values of these currents are in close agreement with those calculated from bulk reverse currents. Life test data indicate improved reliability at high temperature storage over mesa units of similar characteristics. Data on unencapsulated units will also be presented."
"In this paper we will describe the fabrication of a gallium arsenide rectifier with a 10 ampere forward current capability, and reverse breakdowns of 40-100 volts. These units are fabricated by a manganese diffusion into gallium arsenide having a prediffusion carrier concentration of about3 \\times 10^{16}/cm3. The diffusion techniques and evaluation will be described. Problems of conversion toward p-type will be reviewed. The details of mounting rectifiers for 400°C operation will be described including a review of possible brazing alloys. An acceptable technique for 400°C operation uses a newly developed gold-silver-germanium alloy as the bulk n-type contact. The contact to the mesa p-type side is more difficult to form. Heavy nickel plating and the same solder give a satisfactory solution. Operation at 400°C limits case material selection; typical ceramic insulated design is briefly described. The electrical characteristics of the diodes are discussed showing the effects of ambient temperatures on both forward and reverse current-voltage relationships."
"The design of high voltage, high speed, three terminal silicon PvPN switches for high pulse current applications is discussed. The resistivity of thevregion and the minimum base widths are determined by the minimum breakover voltage requirement. The dependence of the delay and turn on times and trigger requirements on the two base widths is then analyzed. It is pointed out that the breakover voltage, speed, and peak current requirement in combination with the desire for a low \"on\" drop necessitates stringent control of the resistivity of the v material during processing. The emitter area and emitter contact sheet resistance are determined by the peak current requirement. Other design features of the device are also discussed. Representative values of the device parameters are given for various designs. In typical applications, the devices are capable of switching from 500 volts to 50 amperes with turn-on times of .05 µsec."
"This report describes the result of work carried out in the course of the development of the Tecnetron, since its introduction in 1958, at the CENTRE NATIONAL D'ETUDES DES TELECOMMUNICATIONS of FRANCE. It will be recalled that the Tecnetron is a semiconductor device based on the centripetal field effect, whose characteristics are intermediate between those of vacuum-tubes and those of high-frequency transistors. The work was concerned with the possible extension of the range of the Tecnetron: by increasing its transconductance, its output power and its maximum operating frequency. It is proposed to describe and discuss: models with cylindrical neck; models, single and double, with conical neck; and models of tubular construction, with several watts dissipation, which are now in their final stages of development. These models have limiting frequencies ranging from 300 Mc/s to around 1,000 Mc/s."
"Although the Manley and Rowe relations indicate that complete conversion of fundamental power to any specific harmonic with nonlinear reactance element is possible theoretically, many factors contribute to lowering the efficiency of real multipliers. Analysis, based on a Taylor series expansion of the nonlinear reactance characteristic and Fourier expansion of the voltage and charge, with the introduction of suitable parameters and quiescent conditions, permits the exact determination of the various effects. Given the characteristics of a nonlinear element and the inevitable circuit losses, maximum obtainable efficiency can be predicted from the analysis. Significant increase in efficiency is obtained in Various circuit configurations where undesired harmonics are prevented from being generated er their power is returned to useful output at the desired harmonic frequency. The characteristic of the nonlinear reactance is shown to have a calculable effect on the multiplier efficiency, so that the most desirable characteristic can be specified. Experimental nonlinear capacitance multipliers designed according to the developed theory have provided an efficiency of 50 percent for a quintupler and 70 percent for a tripler, very close to the predicted values."
"Devlopment work on a camera tube for night viewing which makes use of a thin-film high-gain target of the electron-bombardment, induced, conductivity (EBIC) type is described. Theoretical performance of the tube relative to the image-orthicon tube, the intensifier orthicon, and the storage orthicon, is discussed. A comparison is made between the theoretical performance of these tubes and the performance expected of an ideal amplifier tube which is limited by fluctuations in the signal current leaving the photocathode. Design Of the EBIC camera tube consisting of a high-voltage electrostatic image section having variable minification of the focused image, an EBIC target, and a return-beam electron multiplier is described. Characteristics of the target material are presented, thermal limitations are discussed, and techniques for protecting the target during exhaust are described. Experimental performance of state-of-the-art EBIC tubes with return-beam multipliers is compared with the performance of other sensitive camera tubes."
"An improved electrostatically focused and deflected barrier-grid tube for high speed random access binary digital storage is reported. The tube has a high resolution electron gun incorporating a dual focus lens and dual interdeflection plate shields. The barrier-grid Consists of a four-layer stack of tungsten wire grids (wound at 450 turns per inch). A gold coating on the grid wires provides a uniform secondary emission ratio. The useful storage area of the target is1\\frac{7}{8}\" \\times 1\\frac{7}{8}\". The tube is used in a system to store 16,384 bits with a performance error rate of less than 1 in 1010operations. The cycle time is 2.5 microseconds per bit with a single read or write operation requiring 0.7 microsecond. Under these conditions the read-around number exceeds 300 for an average output amplitude change of 10 percent."
"The conventional image-orthicon glass target, because of the ionic nature of its conduction, has a limited useful life and very restricted range of operating temperature. In addition, its resolution at low light levels suffers due to its insufficient lateral resistance. A new structure-type target has been developed which is essentially free of these limitations. It consists of an array of metal plugs embedded in an insulating film of aluminum oxide. Several image-orthicons containing such targets, in a 750- or 1000-mesh pattern, have been made. These tubes show very little or no image retention (\"sticking\"), initially or after extended operation, and operate in a wide range of target temperatures so that no warm-up period is required. Due to the high resistance between elements, the plug-type target can store a high-resolution picture for a longer time than is the case with-glass targets. Camera tubes containing plug-type targets are expected to have greatly extended life, operate ina wide temperature range and are particularly useful for viewing low-light level scenes, possibly at reduced scanning rates."
"Microsecond rise of electroluminescent, EL, output to greater than the steady state value for a-c sine-wave excitation has been achieved in plastic-embedded powder phosphor cells by application of an a-c burst having a dc component. The decay time for the EL flash, 7 microseconds, is somewhat longer than the rise time. The phosphor used is ZnS:Cu, Cl dispersed in a polyvinyl chloride acetate plastic and sprayed onto a conducting tin oxide-coated glass. The back electrode is a circle of evaporated aluminum 0.2 cm2in area. Electrical contact to the tin oxide is made through silver print painted onto the tin oxide-coated glass around the Al electrode. Light output from the cell is monitored by an RCA 7102 photomultiplier fitted with a cathode-follower output."
"One of the most recent fields of electron device development has been in the use of the phenomena of electroluminescence and photo-conduction to produce devices of many kinds which find application in varied ways in the electronic industry. It is the purpose of this paper to show several of these devices which are being produced today in order to acquaint the electronic design engineers with their availability and their design characteristics. This field can be arbitrarily divided into several separate types of devices. This is typified as follows: 1. Readout devices 2. Electroluminescent-photoconductor circuit elements 3. Crossed grids 4. Bistable panels 5. Special devices for photographic application Currently, numerics and alpha-numerics are available in sizes from\\frac{1}{4}inch to 4 inches utilizing the ceramic type electroluminescent lamp as a base. These can be furnished as single or multiple units and with printed board type or plug-in base connectors."
"A beam deflection tube is described which converts the amplitude of an input voltage into an eight digit binary output at sampling rates up to ten megacycles per second. The tube employs a ribbon beam with a line focus, which impinges on eight columns of apertures in a code plate. The line focus is oriented perpendicular to the columns of apertures and the beam is electrostatically deflected by the input signal in a direction parallel to them. These apertures are arranged so that the electrons penetrate the \"digit columns\" in a binary pattern which identifies the beam position. Output collector electrodes, one associated With each digit column, produce output currents in parallel, An output current of 50 microamperes per digit is obtained by the use of a single stage of secondary electron multiplication before final electron collection. The important tube design parameters are discussed with emphasis on deflection plate design for maximum performance with minimum aberrations."
"The results of extensive experiments in the broad-banding of megawatt klystron amplifiers are presented. Four C-band tubes having 5, 6, 7, and 8 cavities, a 6-cavity L-band tube, and a 5-cavity X-band tube are discussed. It is shown that bandwidths of 10 per cent in L-band, 9 per cent in C-band, and 5 per cent in X-band can be achieved by proper stagger tuning of the driving cavities and use of a broadband output circuit. Examination of the relationship between gain and bandwidth indicates that the choice of design parameters becomes more critical as the number of cavities is increased. In the study of broadband tubes, it is convenient to consider the drive bandwidth and output circuit separately. The drive bandwidth is defined as the bandwidth obtainable from the drive section with essentially a constant-impedance output circuit, i.e., a tunable output cavity. The over-all bandwidth results from the combination of the response curves of the drive section and the output circuit. In practice it has been found that the tuning producing the flattest gain characteristic for the drive bandwidth must be modified in order to obtain the flattest over-all characteristic with broadband output circuit."
"The design and experimental results of a five-cavity amplifier are described. This tube operates at a mid-frequency of 425 megacycles; it has a peak output of 8 megawatts, a peak efficiency of 42 per cent, and a 12 per cent electronic bandwidth with the efficiency exceeding 35% over a 10.5 per cent bandwidth. The driver section of the tube has been designed on an analog computer. Small-signal space-charge-wave theory is modified in the last 2 drift stages by the introduction of kinematic large signal effects. The influence of the design parameters upon optimization of the gain-bandwidth product and phase linearity is studied. Unequal drift lengths and the distribution of cavities with various Q's in the passband are considered. Considering the transfer function in the complex frequency plane, it is realized that a multicavity klystron is to a very good approximation a minimum phase network. A consequent interrelation between the phase and amplitude responses exists which allows the optimization of one only with some sacrifice in the other."
"A report is given on a method of design of individually broad-banded input and output circuits for use on an experimental broad-band klystron. Multiple-cavity filter design techniques are applied to achieve a bandwidth of seven percent in L-band. The input circuit is comprised of a low Q coaxial cavity tightly coupled to the input cavity. It has a double humped response of ± one db amplitude variation across the band. The output circuit consists of three direct-coupled synchronously tuned cavities and produces a triple-peaked response with less than ± 0.5 db variation in the band. A refined cold-test procedure, using simulated beam loading in the output interaction gap, insures a proper impedance match between beam and load. An output coupler of this type has been used on a tube of known characteristics and hot test data indicate no degradation of efficiency compared to a tunable output cavity. The output power response of the output coupler agree within ± 0.3 db."
"By extracting the power from a bunched electron beam at 2 points along the beam instead of 1 and then combining these powers by suitable network connected to the load it is shown that bandwidth can be improved by a factor of 2, circuit losses per cavity can be reduced by a factor of 4, and power output can be increased by a factor of 4 or more if the output window is the limitation. Test results are given on an experimental tube of this kind delivering 50 KW at 825 Mc. The extension of this principle to more than 2 interaction spaces and its relationship to the extended type of klystron are discussed."
"A device is developed which enables to tune electrically the frequency of low power reflex klystrons, in a large bandwidth and with low inertia. This device uses a peculiar characteristic of gaseous plasmas. Indeed a discharge in a low pressure gas behaves as a dielectric for transmission of microwaves; the dielectric coefficient is a function of electron density, then of discharge current. The resonance frequency of a cavity in which a plasma tube is set can then be modified by changing the discharge current. The study was carried on in X band from a reflex klystron equipped with an external cavity. A tube is introduced into this cavity and the klystron oscillation frequency is controlled by the current of the discharge. A 300 Mc/s frequency tuning of the klystron has been reached, this band being covered with an approximately 200 µs time constant. Noise temperature of the klystron is not changed by plasma."
"This paper describes the performance of a 4-cavity klystron amplifier designed to deliver a power output of 20 KW, CW, reliably at a frequency of 8.35 Kmc. The tube operates synchronously tuned with a gain of 54 db and an efficiency of 31 percent. With the tube adjusted for 43 db gain, the efficiency is 38 percent. The tube is tunable over a frequency range of ± 50 mcs/sec. In the laboratory, the tube has delivered power outputs ot greater than 27.9 KW. The tube weighs approximately 7 pounds. The focusing electromagnet used for this tube weighs approximately 180 pounds. The important factors considered in the design of the resonant cavities, magnet circuit, and cooling of the tube will be discussed. Photographs of the tube and the experimental test set will be presented as well as performance data."
"Esaki diode-transistor circuits have demonstrated potential switching speeds of less than one milli-microsecond. Such circuits require Esaki diodes with extremely low junction capacitances, and peak currents generally between one and six milliamperes. This paper describes the design and construction of very high speed, low peak current, germanium Esaki switching diodes. A design criteria is presented which demonstrates the various interactions and limitations between (capacitance/peak current), peak current, and series resistance. Limitations imposed by junction geometry are also presented. The design of a particular high speed Esaki diode with a peak current of five milliamperes, and a junction capacitance of three picofarads, is given together with experimental results. Methods for producing germanium Esaki diodes with peak current tolerances of ± 1% and peak-to-valley ratios as high as 25 : 1 are described."
"The advent of non-linear capacitor diodes for use in microwave parametric amplifiers has created the need for a low loss, low parasitic encapsulation that can be evacuated, backfilled and sealed with an inert atmosphere. A high alumina ceramic-metal encapsulation has been developed which has these as well as other desirable features: (1) it has a threaded base which can be screwed into either stripline or waveguide circuitry; (2) it has a very low thermal impedance; and (3) although small in size, it is easily inserted into its circuits because it has a hexagonal can which permits the use of a standard six-point socket-screw driver. This encapsulation is currently being used in the fabrication of diffused silicon mesa type diodes intended for use in parametric amplifiers. It has also proved to be a good encapsulation for radar input limiter diodes."
"A technique for fabricating tunnel diodes in both germanium and gallium-arsenide will be presented. Material preparation, alloying, mounting, and etching will be considered in detail. Germanium tunnel diodes with Ip/Ivratio greater than 10 and Ip/C merit factor greater than 5ma/pf, and gallium-arsenide tunnel diodes with Ip/Iv, ratio greater than 40 and Ip/C merit factor greater than 10ma/pf will be considered. Temperature dependence of Ipand Iv, with methods used to stabilize these parameters will be discussed."
"It is now well known that the noise figure of the variable capacitance parametric amplifier can be greatly improved by refrigerating the diode to liquid nitrogen temperatures. To make this into a practical device, the major problem is the cryogenic system. It is much larger than the amplifier itself and requires considerable maintenance. A thermo-electric refrigerator is a very useful device for this application, because it is compact and operates with little attention. A thermo-electric refrigerator can easily be built into the amplifier without significantly increasing its mechanical dimensions. The only disadvantage of this device is that the lowest temperature achievable by a two stage refrigetor is around 215° K."
"This paper describes a new type of parametric amplifier which uses a helix as a slow-wave distributed interaction structure and has variable-capacitance solid-state diodes distributively coupled to the helix. The applied signal and the pump signal are applied to the input of the helix; interaction occurs successively with the diodes and provides parametric amplification which results in the development of the amplified applied signal at the output of the helix. The helix parametric amplifier has an insertion loss of approximately 30 db between the input and the output of the helix before application of the pump signal. When a pump signal at fixed frequency is applied, the helix parametric amplifier provides wide-band operation. A miniaturized-package helix parametric amplifier is described which weighs less than 6 ounces and provides a gain of 15 db across a 10-per-cent bandwidth in high L-band with a pump having a frequency at less than twice input-signal frequency. The noise figure of the amplifier is from 5 to 6 db. Maximum gain is stable over a wide range of pump power."
"This paper describes the development of a wide band traveling wave parametric amplifier using semiconductor diodes. For the signal frequency at 1320 mc, and pump frequency of 2640 mc, a 15% bandwidth has been obtained with an average power gain of 10 db. Noise figure measurements resulted in a 4 db. single channel noise figure. The amplifier consists essentially of a slab line and 10 equally spaced varactor diodes mounted between the center conductor of the slab line and one of the two ground planes. Pump power is individually supplied to each diode from a pump power divider which has provisions for adjusting the pump phases. Each diode is also provided with an individual bias voltage control. Further investigations have indicated that the amplifier can also be operated in a non-degenerate fashion with a pump power frequency of 5320 mc."
"A ceramic envelope X-ray tube was developed to give short pulses (10-7seconds) of very intense, soft radiation (peak dose rate of the order of 109roentgens/second, anode voltage 20 KV). The triple-oxide cathode is planar, has a 9/16\" diameter, and is separated from the target by a normally closed, magnetically operated shutter which prevents barium oxide evaporation from cathode to target. A pulsed electromagnet opens the shutter in synchronism with a cathode \"hot shot\" for\" increased emission and application of anode voltage. The tube is operated space charge limited to avoid cathode sparking. The target is a layer of gold, about 0.6 microns thick, evaporated directly onto the 0.010\" beryllium window. The output radiation pulse has been found to exceed 160 roentgens for a peak target current of 180 amperes. Novel features of design, construction, and circuitry will be briefly described."
"The mechanical properties of a cylindrical grid are determined by such parameters as grid length, diameter, wire size, TPI, and siderod configuration. Because the grid resonates in several different modes, each of these parameters affects each resonant mode in a different way or to a different degree. Small cylindrical brazed grids have been found to have a torsional vibration mode, a cantilever vibration mode, and a vibration mode in which the normal circular-cylindrical shape of the grid assumes the shape of an elliptic cylinder. There are, in addition, resonances due to the vibration of the individual lateral wires. This paper analyzes the effects on mechanical resonance of various design parameters, such as truss wires, multiple siderods, low-pitch end hands, and variations of length and diameter. Data are presented to show the improved resonant-frequency performance obtained with grid designs based on this analysis. The effects of each design on thermal characteristics are also discussed."
"Grid blackout, variously called Whippany effect, desensitization, or grid effect, is a phenomena characterized by residual negative grid charging following application of voltages causing grid current to flow. All types of vacuum tubes examined have been observed to exhibit grid blackout in considerable variation. The effect is believed to be caused by formation of an extremely thin layer of evaporated semi-conductor from the cathode which causes the actual grid surface potential to differ from the applied grid voltage. Blackout mechanism performs an operation on positive input pulses to give an anode waveform similar in some respects to that caused by cathode interface except blackout time constants are very much longer than observed with cathode interface. Detection of blackout in a tube can be accomplished in several ways. A method which gives quantitative data is presented allowing characterization of the blackout effect applicable to calculation of circuit degradation."
"This paper describes a simple two-step method for the calculation of electron trajectories. First, the potential distribution within the electrode system is determined by means of a resistance network analog which provides, at each network point, the relative potential within the electrode system. A digital voltmeter displays the potentials to four-digit accuracy. The present resistance network simulates systems of cylindrical symmetry. Although space charge can be included by a method of successive approximations, the analogy has not been extended to magnetic fields. After the potential data are obtained, the electron trajectories can be calculated. The general ray equation is used to determine the change in slope caused by the electric field. The field components are first measured at an assumed initial position and slope. The above calculation is then performed on a printing desk calculator to determine the new position and slope, This process is repeated step-by-step throughout the trajectory. The measurements on the resistance network are made in less than a minute, and the calculations in about a minute; therefore, each step requires approximately two minutes. Thus, a typical 20-step trajectory can be determined in less than an hour, Position and slope are calculated to four decimal places."
"In electron-optical devices of circular symmetry whose axis potential is a quadratic function of distance, we have found that a very general law can be formulated which we call the \"triangle theorem of electron optics.\" It deals with three individual phase angles which are defined, respectively, for image-space, object-space and lens-volume. The \"triangle theorem\" states that in any image-forming system as above, the sum of these three phase angles is 180 degrees for a converging electron lens, and zero for a diverging electron lens. The \"triangle theorem\" permits the immediate determination of size and position of an electron image including real as well as virtual images. It is not restricted to thin lenses but applies to long electron lenses as well."
"A method has been devised for analysis of the residual gas content of small tetrodes or pentodes. In contrast to other methods which have been reported, the gas content of the tube being studied is not changed markedly by the analysis, analyses may be made repeatedly as the tube is operated, and moderately low pressures (10-10mm Hg) and small quantities (10-8micronliter) may be detected. A 90° sector magnetic analyzer with a 3 cm radius of curvature and 30 mil slits (resolution 1:20) is sealed to the tube to be analyzed prior to pumping. The analyzer is made of 0120 glass with a conductive lining. The tube being tested serves as an ion source, an important feature which avoids contaminatioh. The device has been calibrated by comparison with known gases on a vacuum station, and a voltage-sensitivity curve has been derived from these data."
"Contains various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"Presents the table of contents for the proceedings."
"Although these studies of the absorption in Z-growth quartz resonators are incomplete, a relationship between growthrate and acoustic loss near room temperature is emerging. It appears that the higher the growth rate, the greater is the 130°C absorption and hence the greater is the silicate concentration. Whether or not growth-rate is basically the determining parameter remains to be seen."
"The binary compounds crystallizing in the cubic sphalerite or hexagonal wurtzite structures are the simplest piezoelectric crystals and hence of theoretical as well as potential practical interest. So far quantitative data were available only on natural crystals of zinc sulfide in the cubic form, but new methods of crystal growth provide single crystals of hexagonal cadmium sulfide up to 1 inch minimum dimension; adequate resistivity is assured by copper-doping and by exclusion of light during measurement. Piezoelectric and elastic constants were obtained by conventional measurements of resonance and antiresonance of fundamental modes, including contour modes of square plates, and capacitance measurement above and below resonance. The piezoelectric strain constant and coupling factor for the \"parallel\" mode are about 3 times the corresponding constants for quartz and cubic zinc sulfide. Dielectric constants are about 10."
"Review is made of information concerning the ability of current designs of quartz crysta. units to operate in nuclear environments generated by nuclear weapons and propulsion systems. Exposure of military-type crystal units to steady-state nuclear radiation has indicated that most of the units are appreciably affected by integrated neutron doses of 1017. Differences in results on the same crystals are attributed to differences in processing techniques, fabrication materials and mounting. The large thermal neutron component of the integrated dose is indicated to be primarily responsible for the large number of failures in the steady state reactor. Similar crystal units exposed to gamma photons in the Cobalt-60 facility are shown to be little affected by such radiation. Information is presented to show that military type crystal units are not nermanently affected by a pulsed nuclear radiation dose similer to that specified in the pertinent military standard. The need for information on the transient effects induced by such exposure is stressed. The various radiation environments encountered by satellites and the ability of quartz crystal units to withstand such environments are discussed briefly."
"Bliley Electric Company is working toward development of special precision crystal units for eatellite use under a contract with the Signal Corps Research and Development Laboratories. The project consists of several specific phases, and includes both the evaluatioonf performances attainable at the present state of the art and development of certain new design and techniques. This paper is concerned with the portion of the project which evaluates ruggedized crystal units of conventional types, designed for use without temperature control. It describes sample units, including 5th, 7th, and 9th modes, which if individually selected, can meet the requirements as outlined. A discussion is presented of the pros and cons of temperature compensation methods, and temperature control methods, versus the extreme process control, and individual selection which is necessary with the non-temperature-controlled units."
"This paper covers the results of a study of CR-18/U crystal unit design in the frequency range 800 KC to 3000 KC. The choice of suitable design parameters for a plano-convex or a bi-convex plate of a given frequency involves finding a combination of plate diameter and surface curvature that will minimize the effects of unwanted modes of vibration within the operating temperature range. Satisfactory design parameters have been found for plano-convex plates in the frequency range 1400 KC to 3000 KC and for bi-convex plates down to 800 KC."
"Analogous to a spectral line, the output of an oscillator can be characterized by two parameters, the width of the line and its position on the frequency scale. The line width is determined by the signal to noise ratio and the position of the line by the phase relation in the oscillator loop. Using simple models, equations are derived for the limitations due to thermal noise wl1ich express the frequency stability of an oscillator in terms of the integration time, the pover level and the qualit~r factor of the circuit. Experimental data indicates that the limits on frequency stability set by thermal noise are being approached for integration times shorter than one tenth of one second. For longer time intervals, the present day oscillators are limited by the stability of the circuit elements which control the phase relation in the oscillator loop and not by thermal noise. The possibility that the quartz crystal unit has an equivalent noise resistance larger than its effective resonance resistance is ruled out."
"This paper first reviews the nature of the Micro Module Program. The basic considerations which were to serve as key attitudes and design criteria for the future are discussed. Then an up-to-date status report on program progress including components and equipments is presented. The status of typical resistors, capacitors, inductors, transistors and crystal micro-elements is presented. Future aspects of micro-modules as they relate to the new solid state multifunction devices now under development are dis cussed. Included are semiconductor solid state circuits and multi-layer thin film approaches."
"The effect of thermal noise on the frequency of a regenerative oscillator is shown to be a random frequency error proportional to the frequency itself, and to the square root of the ratio of the equipartition energy, kT, over the energy dissipated in the oscillator during the time of measurement."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Front matter may contain various miscellaneous pages grouped together. This can include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, contributor biographies, welcome messages, society-related news or program information, advertisements, and other and miscellaneous information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Ultrasonic delay lines are described which utilize the dispersion of longitudinal waves in cylindrical wires to provide a delay which is variable with frequency. Existence of an inflection point in the delay-vs-frequency characteristic for the lirst longitudinal mode allows the delay characteristics to be either approximately linear or to havpe ositive or negative curvature. By operating below the cutoff frequency for the second longitudinal mode, the unwanted responses are limited mainly to flexural modes. Various designs are described which operate in different regions of the delay-vs-frequency characteristic. One model is described which departs by ±7.5 microseconds from a linear delay slope of 1710 microseconds per megacycle over a 14 per cent band centered near 1.5 megacycles."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Contains various contributor biographies, advertisements, indexes, and other miscellaneous issue information. This may in some cases also include society or committee information, blank pages, covers or other general information relating to the particular issue as originally published."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"An antenna for service in the 30-50 Mc band is presented which affords a high degree of immunity from the noise of precipitation static and corona. Throughout this paper the noise caused by the impingement of charged particles is termed precipitation static. Corona is treated separately. A predominant feature of this design is a dielectric sheath enclosing the radiating conductor. A study of the causes of precipitation noise show it to arise principally from a spark between a charged particle of precipitation and the antenna conductor. Noise from this source is estimated to be reduced about 30 db by the dielectric sheath. Experimental apparatus is described which enables quantitative measurements to be conducted in the laboratory. A standard approach is used to minimize corona effects."
"The results of an experimental investigation on the problem of rapidly siting UHF and SHF radio relay type communications links in army grid networks are summarized. A requirement existed for a technique for locating suitable low loss transmission paths between fifteen foot high vehicular mounted antennas, separated at distances from one to ten miles in areas where irregular terrain obstructs propagation. Data is provided on an area survey instrumentation technique for this purpose employing radar principles."
"This paper considers the application of pre-programming to repetitious messages. After being programmed, transmission is by single-pulsed tone. The system provides more effective utilization of frequency, a high degree of security for message context, and a subscriber service much superior to that available in most present day systems. After evaluation of the system described, consideration is given to the extension of these techniques to permit a high speed, high capacity, message service simultaneously with other services on a common channel."
"A roadside-to-vehicle communications system, known as Hy-Com is proposed for bringing voice messages pertinent to driving conditions into moving vehicles. It fills the void left by visual aids which tend to lose their efficacy under conditions of darkness, inclement weather, heavy traffic and when driving at elevated speeds. Safer and more comfortable highway travel is Indicated. Also, the improvement in communications can help to increase the volume of traffic handled by existing facilities. The method proposed to transmit the message is through an amplitude-modulated magnetic induction field having a carrier frequency in the 10- 14 kc range. The use of an induction field makes it possible to control the coverage to include only that Traffic directly concerned. Interference to other services or other Hy-Com transmitters is avoided by the abruptness of the message field and thereby Permits all Hy-Coms to operate on one and the same frequency channel. The operation of Hy-Com is automatic once the ignition is turned on. It can share the audio output circuit and speaker with the standard broadcast radio in the car. The standard broadcast will be muted for the duration of the safety message and returned to normal after passing through the message field. If the radio is not on, the Hy-Com receiver will power the audio output stage so the message can be heard. Portable transmitters using ferrite rod-type antennas can be used for emergency applications. Single wire, loop antennas, buried beneath the shoulder surface, and transmitters kept in tamperproof concrete bunkers are proposed for permanent installations."
"This paper describes the application of a phase changer which, when periodically distributed along a cylindrical conductor, controls the phase of the currents so that the radiation is concentrated in a plane perpendicular to the axis of the conductor. A theoretical analysis is made of a two-element structure, and the results are compared with those obtained by experiment. Further experimental results are given for multi-element structures."
"Based on the assumptions made for system requirements and limited geographical separation of base stations, it has been shown that Sliver Band FM (SBFM± 2.5 Kc system deviation) can provide about the same degree of spectrum utilization as Single Sideband (SSB). Frequency spacing or required bandwidth is the main factor affecting spectrum utilization to be discussed. Required frequency spacing is controlled by equipment characteristics and geographic separation of stations. FM systems can be spaced closer together due to the modulation and noise characteristics of FM transmitters as compared to SSB transmitters."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the back cover of the periodical issue."
"At the present time, known techniques for suppressing the effects of impulsive disturbances can be identified with one of three general approaches: (a) The use of nonlinear saturating elements or noise clippers; (b) Disturbance-triggered, gating-out schemes; (c) The use of special signal design such as special coding, or linear premodulation waveform alteration and postdemodulation correction of the message. In this paper a new technique that is fun&- mentally simple and hear is described; it is effective even when the i-f filter responses to the various impulses overlap, as long as the number of overlapping responses is not great. The only important assumption made is the one that is fundamental in all impulse-noise studies - that the individual bursts have durations that are substantially shorter than the duration of the shortest important message element. This technique (which we call the linear-cancellation technique\") makes use of an important property of the impulse response of a linear filter - that its maximum value is directly proportional to the filter bandwidth. This technique is applicable to the reception of all types of modulation, even to pulsed transmissions, subject, of course, to the fundamental assumption about the duration of the input noise pulse relative to the duration of the shortest important message element."
"The design considerations and results of extensive performance tests of a novel antenna for vehicular communication in the frequency range 30 to 76 mc are given together with applicable theory. The principal features of the antenna include feeding a whip antenna at its center through a coaxial cable, terminating it at its base into a variable reactor with different settings for each one of ten bands, providing separate built-in fixed-tuned matching networks for each band and switching them by means of automatic remote control which is activated by the frequency dial of the radio set. The design of the base reactor comprising a transmission line wound on a ferrite core having a tapped coil connected in parallel with it, and of the transmission line inside the whip are discussed in detail. Measured current distributions, radiation patterns, impedance plots and other performance data are presented."
"The design of a 3-element colinear array is described. Over the 152-162 MC band, the array has a minimum gain of 4 db over a half-wavelength dipole and VSWR less than 1.5. The circularity of its horizontal pattern is ± 1/4 db. The array elements are covered and supported by a Fiberglas tube, DC grounds are provided for these radiating elements for lightning protection and reduction in static noise."
"The omni-directional pattern of a vertical antenna when side-mounted on a mast or tower, is distorted as a function of tower diameter and separation in wavelength. The pattern is further effected by obstruction of metallic tower guys. Laboratory and field measurements of these effects are analyzed. Possibility of taking advantage of these effects for special coverage is suggested. Tower effect on antenna impedance is briefly discussed."
"There are two prime purposes of Industry Standards for 2-Way Land Mobile Radio Equipment. They are: 1.) To assure high standards of customer performance and 2.) to assure system compatibility. Examples are given of standards written for both purposes. For example, the logic behind receiver sensitivity and selectivity standards are discussed. Similarily, the importance of standards which assure compatibility between Tone-Coded Squelch Systems, standards for frequency stability, and standards for interference protection between systems are discussed."
"This paper describes a VHF \"personal\" communications receiver assembled entirely from individual circuit modules, which are constructed with standard, commercially available, subminiature components. Defective modules can be rapidly replaced, and later repaired or modified. Other receiver features include 1 microvolt sensitivity, double conversion, a crystal filter selectivity package at the high I.F. frequency, and a novel squelch gating circuit. The companion transmitter, more conventional in construction, also is subminiaturized. It features a 1 watt power output, a transistorized modulator, and a DC-DC converter type of power supply with rechargeable nickel cadmium batteries. The shirt pocket size receiver and the transmitter occupy a combined volume of less than 85 cubic inches and together weigh less than 4-1/2 pounds."
"This paper is a discussion of a complete VHF Radio Paging System designed to operate in the 25 to 50 mc band and 1L.4 to 174 mc bands. The system includes small light-weight receivers which are worn by the users. The receivers can be selectively called up to many thousands on the same RF channel. When the receiver is called, the user hears an alerting tone. He then presses the listen button and the voice message is received. The base station is a standard land-mobile FM transmitter. This transmitter is tone-modulated by the encoding equipment to send the page alerting call. It is then voice modulated to send the message. The base encoding equipment may take several forms from the simplest which can call 90 different receivers to the most complex which can call up to 7)00 receivers. The base station RF equipment may take many forms and may also service two-way radios on the same channel."
"Police departments, and similar organizations which require communication with mobile units are confronted with similar problems. The equipment provision for a typical installation is discussed with particular emphasis on the facilities which are provided in the communications console. A description is given of the modular units such as amplifiers, control units, display units and signal actuated recorder which have been developed for this application."
"The author describes an investigation into the concept of address communication systems of a form called random access-discrete address. In the literature this is also referred to as non-synchronous or asynchronous comnunication. The basic concept exploits the random character of speech so that some talkers are transmitting during quiescent periods of others. It is therefore a voice comuication system although not necessarily limited to voice. As the author has been considering the system many transmitters radiate signals more or less simultaneously, and each receiver must pick out of this mixture of signals those signals which are intended for him. Thus, the use of the phrase 'random access.' In order to accomplish this, each transmitter addresses each and every signal element which it transmits with the code of the intended receiver so that the receiver may select the coded signal addressed to it. Hence, the terms 'discrete address.'"
"A real need has developed for common-carrier mobile radiotelephone service which can be connected directly into dial telephone exchanges. Many exchanges are now unattended and the mobile subscriber must be able to dial his calls and receive calls in the same manner as with his office or home dial telephone. The transmission of the dialing information from a moving vehicle into the exchange, with the accuracy required to meet telephone standards, has presented an interesting challenge in view of various radio propagation characteristics often experienced, particularly from weak signal or fringe areas. The pushbutton type of dialing described in this paper provides a digital signalling system employing tones of sufficient duration to ride over the numerous signal drop-outs sometimes lasting more than 100 milliseconds. Extensive field experience has proven this approach to be highly reliable and consistent in dialing from a mobile unit. A unique application of counter tubes and transistor switching circuits is employed in the conversion of the tones into dial pulses at the base station terminal. The use of pushbuttons has been found to be very convenient for mobile service. A number of the various features incorporated in mobile dial systems are described in this paper."
"A method of audio frequency tone signalling which utilizes the maximum number of combinations of a given number of tone channels is described. The principle feature of this method is the use of all tones present as a positive space. Several typical applications of this method to selective calling are described. These include selective party-line telephone ringing, and aircraft selective call."
"The implementation of 15 KC split frequencies in the 150 megacycle band is entirely feasible, practical, and in the interest of good spectrum utilization, provided only that sufficient geographic spacing is employed between base stations. Equipment meeting the present FCC standards for narrow-band operation is entirely adequate for this type of operation. With receivers having a two-signal selectivity of 40 db or more at plus and minus 15 KC, the limiting factor on interference range is the side-band envelope of the interfering transmitter. But even with receivers having only 20 db of selectivity at the 15 KC points, 15 KC split-channel operation is clearly superior to co-channel operation. Tone-operated squelch will be even .ore effective in reducing interference with 15 KC spacing between the systems than with co-channel operation because the desensitizing effect of an interfering carrier is reduced by as much as 72 db. Tone operated squelch can be expected to completely eliminate nuisance interference due to voice modulation peaks."
"Describes a method for measuring differential gain and differential phase in equipment transmitting either monochrome or color television signals. The characteristics to be measured are defined.<>"
"Superseded by IEEE Std 208-1995 The methods for measuring the resolution of camera systems are described. The primary application is for users and manufacturers to quantify the limit where fine detail contained in the original image is no longer reproduced by the camera system. The techniques described may also be used for laboratory measurements and for proof-of-performance specifications for a camera."
"It is the purpose of this procedure to define uniform acceptable test methods for determining the performance and other characteristics of aircraft alternating-current generators. It is recognized that there may be acceptable methods of making tests other than those described. The tests outlined are not necessarily complete for any specific generator; and likewise the requirements in each case will determine the number of tests to be made.<>"
"The purpose of this procedure is to define uniform acceptable methods for making tests to determine the performance of alternating-current, aircraft type, induction electric motors. The methods in this publication are intended to serve as a standard for both manufacturers and users of aircraft motors. It is intended that the standardizing of test procedures will lead to coincident test data regardless of which party conducts the test. The procedure is applicable to aircraft motors which operate from constant-frequency (nominally 400-cycle-per-second) constant-voltage (nominally 115 volt line to neutral, 3-phase four-wire or 115 volt single-phase) alternating-current aircraft power systems.<>"
"This glossary reprinted from Proc. IRE (USA) vol.48, no.9, Sept.1960 contains 29 definitions with footnotes mostly related to the concepts of branches, graphs, loops, nodes and paths. Two alternative algebraic expressions for the graph determinant are explained at some length."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue."
"Listings are by month and page, and include authors of papers, authors of Correspondence items (C), and reviewers of books (B)."
"Listings are by month and page. Authors and paper titles may be determined from the tables of contents in the front part oJ this index."
"This index covers all nontechnical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"The index contains an entry for all items that appeared during the year."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The International Radio Consultative Committee held its Ninth Plenary Assembly in Los Angeles, California, April 2 through 29, 1959. The CCIR studies the technical factors affecting international radio telecommunications and makes recommendations to administrations which are of importance in the international allocation and usage of the radio spectrum. These studies are made by fourteen Study Groups, each dealing with certain aspects of international telecommunication. At the Los Angeles meeting, the technical aspects of relatively new techniques for conservation of spectrum space were considered. Transmission and receiving standards, propagation characteristics, monitoring methods, modulation techniques including single sideband and stereo sound broadcasting, and the new international aspects of telecommunication with and between space vehicles were among the many topics considered by the Assembly."
"It is a well-known fact that amplitude nonlinearity produces crosstalk between frequency-multiplexed channels, an important example being clipping in a saturating amplifier. Since the amplitude distribution of the composite signal for a large number of channels is essentially Gaussian, the crosstalk can be calculated with reasonable accuracy by assuming that the input signal is random noise, except for a narrow gap in which a sine wave is inserted to represent the signal in a selected channel. This assumption allows use of standard analytical techniques to determine the output signal-to-crosstalk ratio in the selected channel as a function of the clipping level. The resulting value for infinite clipping is about 9 db. The crosstalk decreases rapidly as the clipping level is raised, and a value of 40 db is obtained for clipping one per cent of time. An optimum clipping level, which provides the highest signal-to-total-interference ratio, may be determined when noise is present in the receiver, and allows definition of \"peak factor allowance.\" An allowance of several db is found to be adequate for frequency-multiplexed binary data channels."
"This is a tutorial paper, written by the Subcommittee on Noise, IRE 7.9, to provide the theoretical background for some of the IRE Standards on Methods of Measuring Noise in Electron Tubes. The general-circuit-parameter representation of a linear two-port with internal sources and the Fourier representations of stationary noise sources are reviewed. The relationship between spectral densities and mean-square fluctuations is given and the noise factor of the linear twoport is expressed in terms of the mean-square fluctuations of the source current and the internal noise sources. The noise current is then split into two components, one perfectly correlated and one uncorrelated with the noise voltage. Expressed in terms of the noise voltage and these components of the noise current, the noise factor is then shown to be a function of four parameters which are independent of the circuit external to the twoport."
"One facet of electrocardiography has traditionally dealt with the relationship between body surface potentials and an equivalent generator that could have produced them. A key problem facing investigators today is whether a single fixed-location dipole is a suitable equivalent generator. The equivalent cardiac generator developed here provides a means for resolving this question. It consists of a collection of multipoles which, if placed at a point in a homogeneous isotropic conductor shaped like the human body, will give rise to the same potential distribution on the surface as that observed on the body itself. The multipole components can be evaluated by performing appropriate integrations of the potential over the body surface."
"High stability oscillators usually employ tubes having rather high values of transconductance. Excellent frequency stability as to valve capacitance and supply voltage changes results, but a change of the cathode impedance produces large frequency changes. Cathode impedance changes in a valve may reach 100 ohms during its lifetime because of the growth of an interface layer between the oxide coating and the cathode sleeve. In order to reduce the effect of the cathode impedance, the gm value must be reduced considerably, the optimum being near 1/Xg, where Xg is the grid-cathode reactance. The ratio of the anode/grid RF voltages should be made equal to the ratio of grid/anode capacitances, or equal to unity. Full advantage cannot always be taken of the recommended gm value, as this makes the oscillator more susceptible to random capacitance variations and to changes of supply voltage, but a considerable reduction below customary values is possible. In this way, the longterm stability can be improved at least ten times."
"Previous analyses of diversity techniques are extended to include the performance of an optimum (maximal-ratio) combiner in the case of nonindependent signal fading fluctuations, for an arbitrary number of diversity branches. The analysis includes the general possibility of correlations among the quadrature components of the various signals. Some computational simplifications for certain cases of physical interest are given, as well as a specific application to two problems in digital communications."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The present status of the concept of charge control of transistor action is considered, and what appear to be the most significant performance parameters for circuit design purposes are defined; also methods of measuring them surveyed. These parameters are the collector time constant τC, the saturation time constant τS, the \"on demand current gain\" ßS, the collector capacitance charge QV and the dc current gaini ß. The manner in which these parameters may be expected to vary with dc current level is analyzed, as far as possible, for homogeneous base transistors, and is considered qualitatively for graded base types. A distinction is drawn between the technique of charge analysis of transistor action, and the concept of charge control of transistor performance. It is pointed out that only devices whose performance is determined by charges which are under the control of external circuitry can be regarded as charge controlled devices. This distinction strictly speaking excludes from the class of charge controlled devices those exhibiting the \"wiggle\" effect or possessing carrier storage in the collector region during operation in saturation. Although charge parameters can still be used for such devices, other parameters may be desirable as additions or alternatives."
"This paper is concerned with an approximating technique for realizing the design of broad-band equalizers and matching networks which approach optimum gain bandwidth performance. Given an arbitrary load impedance, it is possible, by methods of Bode, Fano, LaRosa and Carlin, to derive the limiting constraints for optimum flat power or voltage transfer over a prescribed band. The synthesis of equalizer networks to approximate this optimum response is a difficult matter, particularly when the load has some degree of complexity. This is because methods proposed up till now prescribe an approximating transfer function which includes the load characteristics, and the problem of adjusting the parameters of such an approximating function is quite formidable. The technique proposed here bypasses this problem by producing from the idealized gain-bandwidth constraints a set of functions which specifies the equalizer alone. All load dependence is removed from the specifications as an initial step in the synthesis. The final transducer is then synthesized from the approximating functions which are obtained. Examples of one-port and two-port equalizer network designs utilizing this technique will be given."
"This paper discusses in some detail the scanning properties of planar and linear phased arrays consisting of a large number of equispaced radiators, either omnidirectional or directive. Assuming that a suitable beam shape and sidelobe level in the broadside direction have been attained, it is shown how scanning of the array through introduction of a phase delay into the wave front distorts this pattern and introduces new sidelobes. The study uses contour maps of the antenna pattern in \"sin θ-space,\" which is a projection of the unit sphere on the plane of the array. In this space the antenna pattem remains invariant with scan angle and merely undergoes a translation proportional to the phase delay between adjacent radiators. Using a parallel projection of the unit sphere onto the plane of the array, the actual antenna pattems are then readily obtained in conventional spherical coordinates. This method also permits ready evaluation of the influence of the directivity of the radiating elements, including a slight shift of the beam maximum with respect to that of an array of isotropic radiators. Furthermore, a pictorial representation of the coverage of a tilted planar array of given scanning properties can be obtained in terms of an earth-fixed coordinate systerr. Finally, it is shown how the beam-pointing error in a phased array is related to systematic errors in the phase delay."
"The basic miultiple-layer magnetic thin film structure described here has been shown to have special and desirable properties in coincident-signal switching applications such as those employed in binary random access memories. Its demonstrated advantages in this application include: 1) magnetic turnover times as low as 30m μsec; 2) wide latitude in selection currents, with greater than twelve-fold variations giving no appreciable change in the compensated signal-to-noise ratio of the cell's output; 3) extremely small volume of, typically, 0.025 inch ×0.010 inch ×0.0007 inch per complete cell; and 4) automated, microminiaturized production and assembly based on vapor phase handling techniques."
"In previous papers, shot noise of germanium junction p-n diodes and transistors was calculated and measured as dependent on frequency at smal current densities, where good coincidence was obtained. At high current densities, when the density of minority carriers becomes comparable with the density of dotation, measured shot noise was higher than calculated values. In later papers, shot noise in silicon junction diodes and transistors was calculated and measured at small current densities, again obtaining good coincidence. In the present paper, the case of shot noise at high current densities is tackled for the first time, obtaining formulas in good agreement with experimental values. The crux of the new theory is the introduction of an equivalent circuit for p-n junctions, containing an inductance besides resistances and capacitances."
"The survival factor of minority carriers is one of the important factors which determine the current amplification factor of a junction transistor, and is generally known to be much more affected by the surface recombination of the minority carriers than by the volume recombination in the base region. It is therefore quite necessary in the design of transistors to get an expression of the survival factor ß in terms of the surface recombination velocity, the dimensions of the emitter and the collector electrodes, and the thickness of the base region. Because of the complexity of their geometries, however, analytical expressions of ß have not yet been obtained for alloy junction and other similar types of transistors. In this paper, analytical formulas for various idealized geometries are derived by means of approximating methods. From these results, many useful design data such as the optimum radius ratio of the emitter electrode and the collector are obtained and the effect of curvature of the electrode surfaces is made clear. It is also pointed out that the survival factor can be expressed by four dimensionless quantities, thus establishing the principle of similitude among transistors having different surface recombination velocities and difflerent geometrical dimensions of electrodes. The values of ß calculated from these formulas are in good agreement with the experimental values previously obtained by Stripp and Moore from an analogy of three-dimensional electrolytic conductance."
"Gordon, Buchsbaum, and Feinstein have proposed a new quasi-parametric electron-beam amplifier which uses the same transverse cyclotron waves as the Adler-Wade quadrupole parametric amplifier, but which is pumped with dc voltage applied via a twisted or staggered quadrupole structure. This paper analyses the dc pumped twisted-quadrupole case in terms of the four transverse beam waves and their coupling. Amplification is found to result from the coupling of the slow and fast cyclotron waves. The pump voltage does not actually pump, i.e., does not supply energy. An alternative dc pumping schemie is also examined and found to give coupling of the waves but no amplification."
"The frequency dependence of the phase in selective circuits causes problems in systems that utilize the signal phase as a carrier of information. For example, in a Doppler system the phase change originating within the receiver represents an error in the measurement. A relatively simple method for compensation of phase shifts in filters, resulting in a constant output signal phase, has been developed. In principle, the signal frequency is inverted by means of a mixer, and the signal is passed through a filter to create a phase shift in one direction. The signal frequency is then reinverted in another mixer, and the resulting signal is again passed through a filter which now effects a phase change in the opposite direction. By properly choosing the filter constants and combining the two signals, the two phase shifts will compensate each other, giving an output signal whose phase is independent of the frequency. The method of phase compensation is not restricted to a particular frequency range or a particular type of circuitry. What is needed in addition to conventional circuitry without phase compensation is a local oscillator and simple mixers. In some applications, a local oscillator is provided already (for example, parametric amplifiers or frequency converters), making the adaptation of the compensation principle very simple and economical."
"Automatic Phase Control (APC) systems with sinusoidal reference are analyzed, and design criteria are presented. The limit of the pull-in range is derived; the result is believed to be novel, and is found to be in agreement with experiment."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Listed is information on Russian technical literature in electronics and allied fields which is available in the US in the English language. Further inquiries should be directed to the sources listed. In addition, general information on translation programs in the US may be obtained from the Office of Science Information Service, National Science Foundation, Washington DC, USA and from the Office of Technical Services, US Department of Commerce, Washington DC, USA."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"An examination of the frequency distribution of the power in typical broadcast signals shows that low-deviation phase modulation (PM) should have advantages over amplitude (AM) and frequency modulation (FM). A method of stereo broadcasting is also proposed in which the sum of the two channels is transmitted as AM and the difference as PM."
"The contribution of solid-state electronic devices to microsystems electronics is important, but there is considerable confusion in this field at the present time. By dividing the field of solidstate devices into four categories into which may be placed all device approaches to microsystems electronics (and, incidentally, solid-state components in general) we may more easily assess the merit of each new contribution by comparison with existing components. These four categories are basic, complex, integrated, and array. The construction details and operating principles, as well as the electrical characteristics, of a new device must be specified in order for it to be properly categorized. Some new examples of complex and integrated devices are presented to emphasize their differences."
"The design and construction of a two-color input, two-color output image intensifier panel are described. The solidstate panel is so constructed that it can be independently excited by either a visible image or a near-infrared image on the input. The visible input image excites one of the colors in the output image while the infrared input image excites the other color of the output image. The characteristics of the panels are given in terms of input and output light levels, spectral response and gain. Photographs are given which show the output image for visible input only, infrared only, and the two combined."
"Some of the general design considerations for a cesium vapor-type thermionic energy converter are discussed. These include the questions of geometry and materials as well as cathode support and cathode lead design. The effect of the internal magnetic fields has been analyzed; it was found that there exists an upper optimum limit for the power handling capability per unit cell. The actual construction of a high power thermionic energy converter is described. This unit is of coaxial geometry having the anode surrounding the cathode and heat source. Laboratory testing of this cell is described and includes cold vacuum testing as well as high power operation using an electrical heat source external to the cell. For a device having a molybdenum cathode at 2525°K, a power output of 270 watts was obtained. The efficiency was about 3 per cent, which is in fair agreement with design predictions."
"A miniature superconducting coaxial line is described which transmits nanosecond (nsec) pulses without any measurable change in rise time. Data in regard to the temperature dependence of the bandwidth over the range 293°K to 4.2°K are presented. The investigation is confined to ten and hundred foot lengths of cable."
"The tuning fork filter as a new circuit component offers certain advantages in terms of frequency stability and large values of Q. An eleven-element comb filter is described in which each filter element has a bandwidth of 0.5 cps or a Q of 800, a 26-db insertion loss, and a 40-db rejection ratio. The frequency is constant to within 0.01 per cent, linearity to within one per cent, and Q to within ten per cent for a 40-db range of input. The temperature compensating effect of nickel used in the bimetallic fork is referred to an anomaly in its temperature-elasticity characteristic. The dedecoupling of the input-output electromagnetic transducers is described, and a novel method of Q adjustment in the form of shading coils is developed. The shape of the resonance curve shows that the tuning fork filter can be considered as equivalent to a single-tuned RLC circuit. The fork response at submultiples of its resonant frequency is due to slight harmonic generation in the drive circuit; the nonharmonic overtones are accurately predicted by cantilever theory. A 30-PPM position sensitivity is shown to be due to the change in the effective fork stiffness caused by gravity."
"An electron injected into a longitudinal magnetic field with some initial transverse motion will rotate at the cyclotron frequency in the transverse plane. If an RF electric field, which is polarized in the transverse plane and which oscillates at the cyclotron frequency, is present, a cumulative energy interchange between the electron and the field will occur. This principle of cyclotron resonance interaction has been applied to the construction of a backward-wave oscillator and amplifier which requires no slow-wave circuit. The elimination of the slow-wave circuit provides several advantages, particularly if one is interested in the generation of energy at millimeter wavelengths. At these short wavelengths, it becomes extremely difficult to fabricate a slow-wave circuit, and, in addition, the interaction is weak because the fields decay exponentially away from the conducting surface. The present tube has approximately 100 times the transverse area of a helix operating at a comparable beam voltage and has strongest RF fields in the region of the electron beam. The tube has been constructed for operation at S band, and the circuit consists of sections of standard S-band rectangular waveguide with a field pattern of the TE10 mode. An unbunched beam with some initial transverse motion is injected into a constant, longitudinal magnetic field. Bunching occurs in the interaction region, and, for sufficiently high beam current, oscillation power is produced at the gun end of the tube."
"Observations of radio star scintillation at a frequency of 915 Mc over a 12-month period (October, 1957-September, 1958) are described. By daily observations of Cygnus A (IAU 19N4A) over a wide range of elevation angles, both the amplitude and rate of scintillation were studied. It was found that the amplitude scintillation is strongest near the horizon and decreases rapidly as the altitude increases. The amount of the intensity fluctuation ranges from less than 3 per cent to over 50 per cent of the undisturbed intensity, while the rate of fluctuation varies from ½ to 8 peaks per minute. A fluctuation amplitude greater than 10 per cent was observed at low-altitude angles for 71 per cent of the total observations. The frequency of occurrence of scintillation follows a seasonal variation having two maxima; one in the winter and the other in the summer. During these two maximum periods, the mean fluctuation amplitude was found to be higher than during other periods. It was also found that the mean fluctuation rate in the winter is about three times faster than that in the summer. It was also observed that the scintillation characteristics are markedly affected by the presence of auroras and/or geomagnetic disturbances. During the winter months, the fluctuation rate is roughly proportional to the three-hour geomagnetic K index."
"The factors influencing the power-handling capability of antennas at high altitude are considered in this paper. The physical mechanism involved, including the roles of attachment, free diffusion, ambipolar diffusion, and nonuniform field distribution in the breakdown process, is qualitatively described. These factors are illustrated by breakdown curves for various antenna configurations under both CW and pulse conditions. Normalized data-useful for estimating breakdown fields when the conditions for scaling are fulfilled-are presented. The effect of missile environment on breakdown characteristics is discussed, and an experiment that involves artificially introducing ionization near the surface of the antenna is described. Methods are then considered for increasing the power-handling capability, and typical results are given showing the increase in power that can be achieved."
"This paper describes a small-RF-signal theory for a new type of electrostatically focused traveling-wave tube. Consideration is given to the effect on the gain of large periodic variations of dc electron velocity, resulting from electrostatic focusing. LlewellynPeterson equations which apply to dc voltage distributions, similar to those used in the electrostatically focused traveling-wave tube, are used for analysis. The limitation of the Llewellyn-Peterson equations to one-dimensional problems is overcome by use of correction factors derived from Pierce's theory for traveling-wave tubes. Generalized expressions taking into account the periodic variations of dc electron velocity are derived for the gain parameter C and spacecharge parameter QC. For uniform dc electron velocity, such as that found in a magnetically focused tube, these expressions reduce to the forms derived by Pierce. In addition to their suitability for analysis of electrostatically focused traveling-wave tubes, the LlewellynPeterson equations provide a method of analyzing magnetically focused traveling-wave tubes alternative to those used previously. It is shown that the gain of the electrostatically focused tube can be calculated by use of the gain and space-charge parameters of the electrostatically focused tube and graphical data available for magnetically focused tubes. Depending upon the voltage distribution in the region of electron flow, the gain and bandwidth of a travelingwave RF circuit employing an electron beam having a periodically varying dc velocity can be greater or smaller than the gain and bandwidth of the same RF circuit employing a uniform dc velocity electron beam."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Listed is information on Russian technical literature in electronics and allied fields which is available in the US in the English language. Further inquiries should be directed to the sources listed. In addition, general information on translation programs in the US may be obtained from the Office of Science Information Service, National Science Foundation, Washington DC, USA and from the Office of Technical Services, US Department of Commerce, Washington DC, USA."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Ray paths and focusing properties are calculated for the deflection and acceleration fields of a flat picture tube with lateral beam injection such as has been introduced to the art by W. R. Aiken. The results give insight into the measures which must be taken to achieve linearity of deflection and to assure sharp spot focus over the picture area. Specifically, it is found that linear deflection can be obtained by the application of voltage variations to the deflection electrodes which do not depart greatly from linear variations between the prescribed maximum and minimum values. Horizontal focus is determined almost entirely by the focusing action of the gun and the horizontal deflection plates. The focusing action of the latter is such that the beam incident on the deflection field must be, in general, divergent. The point of divergence required shifts with the horizontal scan, resulting in the need for some kind of dynamic control of gun focus. The horizontal deflection fields, the fields between the accelerating electrodes, and the vertical deflection fields all contribute to vertical focusing. If the separation of the side plates of the horizontal deflection system is of the same order as or less than the height of the deflection structure, the first focus formed by the horizontal deflection field is re-imaged at the screen by the remaining focusing elements. The vertical deflection field alone will not focus a parallel incident pencil in the plane of the screen."
"A general class of traveling-wave parametric amplifiers based on coupled-cavity filter circuits is described. This type of amplifier is particularly suited to microwave frequencies and incorporates new features that overcome some severe difficulties associated with other circuit structures. Traveling-wave diode-type amplifiers having relatively wide bandwidths and great simplicity at S band have already resulted from this approach (details of experiments will be described in Part II). An analysis is presented which provides detailed information on operating characteristics, including the effects of terminal impedances, reflected waves, circuit loss, etc., and also leads to a simple physical picture of the cumulative interaction mechanism in terms of coupled-mode concepts. This physical picture is emphasized throughout this paper. Gain bandwidth considerations are discussed in terms of a fundamental \"interaction-impedance\" parameter. Representative calculated curves show that unilateral gains of 12 to 15 db over relatively wide bandwidths are attainable with as few as 4 to 6 diodes. Methods of increasing the gain through use of ferrites and special circuit techniques are proposed."
"The filter-circuit approach to broadband travelingwave parametric amplification at microwave frequencies is described from an experimental point of view. The experiment revolves around a series of inductively coupled microwave cavities, each loaded with one variable-capacitance semiconductor diode. Gain-bandwidth products of 2000 Mc with a 350-Mc bandwidth at S band have been obtained by using commercially available diodes. Noise temperatures of 130°K have been measured. Based on the analysis of the companion paper, a qualitative prediction of the gain-frequency behavior is given. The experimental arrangement is set forth in some detail. It consists of a series of these coupled cavities with separate pump power distribution at each diode. Through this flexibility in pump phase shift and amplitude, a variety of advantages is achieved. The effects of the many variables on the performance of the amplifier are described. Several methods of achieving short-circuit stability of this amplifier are outlined. These are: 1) nonuniform pump phase shift between sections, 2) nonreciprocal loss with ferrites, and 3) nonreciprocal loss with upper pass bands. The experimental behavior of each method is shown, and the noise performance to date is briefly discussed."
"A new regenerative frequency divider circuit is presented which offers several advantages over other available circuits. These advantages are large lock-in or \"stability\" range, ability to produce either relatively constant output or amplitude modulated output, circuit simplicity and the fact that it is self-starting. An approximate nonlinear analysis is given which provides a reasonable prediction of the operation. This analysis is a quasi-linear, semigraphical technique which clearly shows the dependence upon diode characteristics and transistor input impedance. Results are also given for harmonic generation, in order to actually give a fractional frequency output and not merely a subharmonic."
"This paper describes a new circuit technique called a decision threshold computer, which enables a frequency-shift-keyed receiver system to use information in mark and space channels. independently, resulting in an improvement in circuit quality where fading exists between the mark and space frequencies. Frequency selective fading observed on ionospheric-scatter circuits and on high-frequency communication circuits is discussed. The results of a correlation study are presented which show such fading to be relatively uncorrelated a large portion of the time. Typical FSK demnodulators, with a fixed decision level set halfway between the long-term average amplitudes of the received mark and space frequencies, are shown to result in a high error liability when deep fades occur on either the mark or space frequency. It is further shown that such errors are unnecessary since the complete message is available on either frequency. The device discussed in this paper has been designed to make use of the normally deleterious effects of frequency selective fading, to provide up to a 30-fold reduction in teleprinter error rates over that which is theoretically possible when flat fading is assumed. Additional orders of diversity are shown to result where low correlation exists between the mark and space frequencies. Theoretical error rate equations and resulting error rate curves for the new technique are compared with those resulting from a fixed threshold device of conventional design."
"Approximation by minimizing the magnitude of the complex error phasor in the steady state is considered and relationships to conventional magnitude-only and phase-only methods are discussed. The particular case of the Taylor approximation about zero frequency is shown to be equivalent to the Taylor approximation in terms of the complex variable. Generalized examples are given which relate to rational approximations for transistor alpha, resistance-capacitance transmission lines, and the Z transform."
"The effect on the scattering cross section of a perfectly conducting object produced by surface roughaess whose scale is only a small fraction of a wavelength is discussed. The object itself is assumed large compared with the wavelength. The roughness is assumed to be statistically random in nature and it is shown that this can be treated by means of an impedance boundary condition. This permits the use of known results to determine the resulting modification to the cross section of the unperturbed object. Experimental data obtained by measuring the backscattering cross section of a large rough sphere at three frequencies, S, X and K band, are presented. It is found that even for a sphere whose depth of roughness is as large as 10-2 ,λ the measured change in cross section is no nore than about 0.1 db. This is in good agreement with the theoretical prediction."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Listed is information on Russian technical literature in electronics and allied fields which is available in the US in the English language. Further inquiries should be directed to the sources listed. In addition, general information on translation programs in the US may be obtained from the Office of Science Information Service, National Science Foundation, Washington DC, USA and from the Office of Technical Services, US Department of Commerce, Washington DC, USA."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This paper describes a classifying and coding system of functions and performance characteristics of devices in a way that is useful to the systems designer, who must select a chain of compatible instruments to achieve a measurement or control system of prescribed accuracy and reliability. The performance coding system consists of numeric codes for rating a device in terms of twelve parameters of importance to the over-all performance of the system, such as precision, stability of calibration, rate of performance, useful shelf life, mean operating time to failure, average repair time, cost, availability and physical volume. The numeric codes provide a quantitative description of the performance data to the nearest order of magnitude only. However, this broad classification is consistent with the magnitude of the expected span of performance data of all the devices in a complex system. An edge coded card system is described for the selection of devices or methods complying with the performance parameters. The individual card specifies the exact technical data of the device, the input and output requirements, and especially the environmental conditions under which the performance parameters are given. This classification is established for and with the cooperation of IRE Subcommittee 10.3 of the Industrial Electronics Committee."
"The theory and design of a Tchebycheff tapered balun transformer which will function over frequency bandwidths as great as 100:1 is presented. The balun is an impedance matching transition from coaxial line to a balanced, two-conductor line. The transition is accomplished by cutting open the outer wall of the coax so that a cross-sectional view shows a sector of the outer conductor removed. As one progresses along the balun from the coaxial end, the open sector varies from zero to almost 2π, yielding the transition to a two-conductor line. The balun impedance is tapered so that the input reflection coefficient follows a Tchebycheff response in the pass band. To synthesize the impedance taper, the impedance of a slotted coaxial line was obtained by means of a variational solution which yielded upper and lower bounds to the exact impedance. Slotted line impedance was determined experimentally by painting the line cross section on resistance card using silver paint and measuring the dc resistance of the section. The measured VSWR of a test balun did not exceed 1.25:1 over a 50:1 bandwidth. Dissipative loss was less than 0.1 db over most of the range. Measurements show that the unbalanced current at the output terminals is negligible."
"This paper describes a test method which enables one to locate reflections on traveling-wave tube helices and to measure the return loss of each reflection. This information is needed for traveling-wave tubes used in pulse code transmission since \"echo\" pulses arising from reflections can distort the meaning of the code. This test method employs millimicrosecond pulses in a radar circuit with a stroboscopic viewing system. The sensitivity of the system permits easy observation of reflections having return losses as high as 40 db. Using this method we have been able to identify two previously unsuspected sources of helix reflections."
"This paper describes a model of the variable capacitance diode in which the spreading resistance is considered as the source of amplifier noise. Gain and noise figure calculations are made for this model and experimental results obtained at 5.84 kmc while pumping at 11.7 kmc are presented for gallium arsenide, silicon and germanium diodes. The qauntity 1/ωC0Rss defined as a quality factor\" where Rs, is the spreading resistance and C0 is the static capacitance at zero bias point. Computations of minimum noise figure, optimum load admittance, optimum pumping factor, are all given in terms of the parameter ωC0Rs. The essential differences between single- and double-sideband reception are discussed. Over a range of sufficiently large values of the parameter ωC0Rs, there is a reasonable correlation of the theory developed with the measurements performed on most of the diodes. In the range of relatively small values of ωC0Rs, the model proves inadequate to describe some diodes properly and suggests the need for introducing extra noise sources. These noise sources are also discussed. Of the experimental data obtained thus far, the best result has been with a gallium arsenide diode which yields a 0.9 db double-sideband noise figure and, equivalently, 3.9 db for single-sideband operation with 16 db gain and 25 mc of single-sideband frequency bandwidth."
"Reliability analysis has progressed to the point where a quantification of reliability is possible. Reliability models for electronic equipment and techniques for interpretation of field and laboratory data have been developed. Of more significance, analytical methods leading to higher reliability are available. Reliability estimates enable early pinpointing of low reliability. Catastrophic failures can be controlled and performance change failures reduced through analytical techniques. Redundant techniques allow further reliability improvement even though failures occur. Analytical techniques are a useful aspect of reliability improvement, but they comprise only a part of reliability improvement methods."
"This paper presents an analysis of a simple oscillator designed for stabilized frequency divider application. The oscillator combines some of the characteristics of sinusoidal and relaxation oscillators to provide a high degree of frequency stability while allowing sufficient tendency for synchronization. The analytical results are obtained in a graphical form which is easy to handle and which could be used as a design procedure for stabilized frequency dividers. Synchronization of the oscillator is described for the case of an input signal consisting of narrow pulses. It is shown that the circuit can maintain a given frequency division ratio regardless of variations in, the amplitude of such a synchronization signal. The results of the graphical analysis are confirmed by experimental observations. Performance data are presented indicating that the circuit is capable of frequency division ratios of 30 to 40 without requiring close control of the power supply voltage."
"Graphical and numerical means are developed to compute the additional effective loading caused by the use of syllabic compandors on the input of a multichannel radio-relay system, and to evaluate the noise improvement yielded by the compandor in a telephone channel."
"Detailed data are given for the piezoelectric, elastic, and dielectric properties of lead titanate zirconate ceramic compositions near the rhombohedral-tetragonal phase boundary. These compositions have markedly higher electromechanical coupling factors, remanent ferroelectric charge, and coercive field, than ceramic barium titanate. Another interesting feature is a pronounced change in the free permittivity Є33T by the poling process; this change is in opposite directions for rhombohedral and tetragonal compositions. The dielectric and elastic anisotropy ratios of poled lead titanate zirconate are much greater than those of barium titanate, indicating a greater degree of alignment of domains during poling."
"A new method for measurement of the lifetime of excess carriers in semiconductors is described. Using a steady light source and measuring changes in microwave power absorption as a function of position of the sample in a waveguide, bulk lifetime can be determined. Measurements described here were made at 9600 mc. The new technique offers the following advantages: First, the method does not require electrode attachments, thus making the preparation of the samples less difficult and the actual experiment less subject to error due to non-ohmic contacts. Second, the effects of surface recombination are made less important, thus giving a greater assurace of the evalaution of bulk lifetime."
"An analytical technique for designing automatic gain control (AGC) circuits is presented. This technique is directly applicable to high-gain high-performance radio receiving equipment. Use of this technique permits the designer to specify the performance of the AGC system completely with respect to step changes in signal level, ramp changes in signal level, frequency response, receiver gain error as a function of receiver noise, etc., before the receiver is constructed and tested. When used in conjunction with the statistical filter theory the technique has been used to synthesize optimal AGC systems when the characteristics of the signal and noise are appropriately defined. The mathematical derivation of the closed-loop equations is presented. The resulting expressions are simple and easy to understand by anyone acquainted with linear servo theory. Furthermore, the underlying assumptions used in theory have been tested experimentally, and the close agreement between theory and experiment attests the usefulness of the design technique."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"A brief biography of Haraden Pratt is given highlighting his professional achievements. Mr. Pratt is a member of Sigma Xi. As life member of Veteran Wireless Operators Association, he was awarded the Marconi Medal of Achievement in 1951. He is a Fellow of the American Institute of Electrical Engineers and the Radio Club of America, an Associate Fellow of the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences, and an honorary life member of the IRE, Australia. In 1944, he received the IRE's Medal of Honor."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Some fundamental factors affecting the design of integrated electronic devices are discussed, particularly the influence of shrinkage. It is concluded that the considerable advantages of integrated devices, compared to conventional devices, such as very small volume and weight, and reduced number of metallic connections, have to be paid for by higher shrinkage in fabrication. Three considerations are advanced, which will reduce partially this higher shrinkage. First, the resulting increase in cost may be made very small if the design of the integrated device allows the extent of integration to be adjusted to the shrinkage rate. Second, the resultant high cost of the integrated device justifies a higher investment in the fabrication process of the integrated devices than for the individual units. Third, methods of doctoring integrated devices may be used to reduce the shrinkage effectively."
"An experimental simulation program, which has been in progress at the Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory since 1957, is described. This program uses the IBM 704 computer to simulate perceptual learning, recognition, and spontaneous classification of visual stimuli in the perceptron, a theoretical brain model which has been described elsewhere. The paper includes a brief review of the organization of simple perceptrons, and theoretically predicted performance curves are compared with those obtained from the simulation programs, in several types of experiments, designed to study \"forced\" and \"spontaneous\" learning of pattern discriminations."
"Increased demand for greater detection ranges in radar systems is often thwarted by the transmitting tube peak power limitation which, for narrow pulse operation, is usually reached before the full average power capability of the tube is realized. The technique of pulse compression offers a means of increasing the average power available to illuminate radar targets without any loss at the receiver of the resolution needed for the tactical requirements of the system. This is accomplished by transmitting a wide pulse in which the carrier is frequency modulated and then, by proper signal processing methods, causing a time compression of the received signal to a much narrower pulse of high effective peak power. The spectra and time functions of a particular class of pulse compression signals are analyzed and the basis for compression filter design is derived. Test waveforms demonstrate the resolving capability of the pulse compression technique."
"A field effect has been observed on an operating silicon transistor. The results have been interpreted as being due to changes in surface recombination velocity produced by changes in surface potential. Using this approach, it was possible to calculate the surface recombination velocity of the base region of an operating device directly, without having to go to a filament measuring technique and then extrapolating back to the device. Relaxation phenomena have also been observed which can be interpreted as being due to a transfer of charge between the fast and the slow states at the surface. Time constants for this transition have been calculated."
"The traveling-wave tube here described represents the first practical CW power amplifier with broadband performance in the millimeter wave band. More than 30 db of gain has been achieved over a bandwidth of 10,000 mc centered at 55,000 mc. A maximum CW output power of ½ watt has been obtained in this band. This combination of high power output and broadband performance represents a significant advance in the millimeter art. The electrical and mechanical techniques are described which were found successful in solving the problems peculiar to the high operating frequency. These problems are focusing, heat dissipation, intrinsic RF loss and structural precision. Experimental data on an operating tube are presented which show good agreement with predicted performance. These data suggest that the techniques described may be extended to allow either an increase in power to several watts at the present operating frequency or an increase in operating frequency to 150 kmc for output powers of a hundred milliwatts."
"The simplified mode theory of propagation in a waveguide formed by the earth and a concentric ionosphere of constant height is applied to the experimental observations of Chapman and Macario for the frequency range between 100 cps and 1000 cps. It is demonstrated that the discrepancies between the theory and the nighttime experimental results may be explained by modifying the theory and postulating an effective increase in the ionospheric height as the frequency decreases. This concept is also shown to be not necessarily incompatible with the results for day."
"A study is made of the conditions for stability of junction transistors operating in the pre-avalanche breakdown region in order to establish on quantitative grounds the maximum collector voltage that can be applied to the transistor for stable operation. A method is shown by which this peak voltage can be calculated from a knowledge of the circuit configuration, mode of emitter bias, rate of heat generation, and ambient temperature."
"This paper is a continuation of a study announced in a previous paper by the author [1]. Results are given in the form of curves, and a comparison is made with ionograms. The important influence of radiation angle on the MUF (maximum usable frequency) is shown. A large enough number of adequate models (60 to 100) might be valuable to the radio engineer for prediction and design purposes."
"This paper concerns the attenuation and phase characteristics of plasmas and, in particular, the electromagnetic properties of high-temperature air. It is shown that by a suitable normalization of the parameters the electromagnetic properties of plasmas may be universally represented in convenient form in either the complex dielectric coefficient plane or the complex propagation constant plane. Next, the electron number densities and electron collision frequencies for air ranging in temperature from 3000° to 12,000°K and in density from 101 to 10-4 times the density at sea level are illustrated. The attenuation and phase constants for an electromagnetic wave traversing this medium have been evaluated for frequencies from 109 to 1011 cps. As an example, the above universal representation is applied to the stagnation region of a hypersonic vehicle in space."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Listed is information on Russian technical literature in electronics and allied fields which is available in the US in the English language. Further inquiries should be directed to the sources listed. In addition, general information on translation programs in the US may be obtained from the Office of Science Information Service, National Science Foundation, Washington DC, USA and from the Office of Technical Services, US Department of Commerce, Washington DC, USA."
"This report, prepared in April, 1959, summarizes the objectives of the space sciences program of the U. S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the immediate and long-range plans for carrying the program out. The report is divided into several broad areas: atmospheres, ionospheres, energetic particles, electric and magnetic fields, gravitational fields, astronomy, and biosciences. Included in the discussion is a review of present knowledge and existing problems in each of the above areas."
"The purposes and powers of the National Aeronautics and Space Act are described briefly, particularly as they affect the electronics industry, as an introduction to a more extended discussion of the provisions of the Act relating to patent rights and rights to trade secrets and proprietary information generally. The stringent nature of the latter provisions is stressed, and adverse effects of strict construction and enforcement on the electronics industry analyzed. Mitigating regulations under which the Act will in fact be administered are discussed."
"Several important features and parameters of ion and plasma accelerators for propulsion are compared. Estimates for the thrust of individual ion and plasma acceleration units are given. Impulse measurements for a collinear electrode plasma accelerator are presented. The maximum thrust for an ion gun does not depend on the diameter of the beam, but primarily on the accelerating voltage. Because of the relatively small thrust of the ion accelerator, a greater number of them will be required for a given total amount of thrust. Estimates indicate that the ion accelerator may be somewhat more efficient; however, further experiments are needed to determine the efficiency of both types of accelerators. Beam neutralization is a problem peculiar to the ion accelerator. Considerable research and development may be necessary to provide a satisfactory method for neutralizing the ions. An estimate of the power for neutralization is made. The variation of efficiency with specific impulse is discussed. Further experiments are needed to determine the most efficient ranges of specific impulse for both types of accelerators. Erosion is a serious problem in electrical propulsion; however, for a plasma accelerator it may actually be utilized to provide the propellant material."
"The basic mission parameters which are required for the evaluation of engine performance for interplanetary flights are defined. The engine parameters are also defined, and the relation between these parameters is formulated. The possibility of achieving much larger payload fractions by the use of electric propulsion systems, as opposed to the use of chemical propulsion systems, is indicated. Methods of calculating impulsive orbit transfers between circular orbits, escape and entry from satellite orbits using low thrust, and optimized powered transfer between heliocentric orbits are given in the Appendix."
"The thrust (newtons) developed by a system which accelerates a space charge limited flow of ions of specific charge q/m (coulombs per kilogram) through a voltage V is given by F = (2π/q) ϵV2R2 = √2m/qV2P. R is an aspct ratio of ion beam diameter to acceleration distance x0, and P is a diode perveance (amp/volts 3/2). Lines of electric force extend from charges in transit across the diode to charged surfaces of the accelerator electrode, on which the thrust is thus purely electrostatic. Alkali metals have favorable characteristics for use as propellants because their ions can be produced for small energy expenditure near 100 electron-volts per ion by surface contact ionization, while porous tungsten with pore size less than one micron is an efficient and convenient emitting surface. For practical values of thrust (F>0.01 lbf 2.25 × 10-3 newtons) and specific impulse (Isp> 2000 seconds) alkali metal thrust devices will operate at a few kilovolts and require R<<1. But for R⪞3, unipolar ion beams will reverse their direction of flow within a few x0. Mathematical solutions to the neutralization problem for the case of one-dimensional flow of mixed ion and electron beams are presented assuming no energy exchanges by collisions or plasma instabilities. These show a periodic spatial potential distribution of wavelengths 0.027 x0for cesium, corresponding to time fluctuations of the potential at the plasma oscillation frequency in a frame of reference moving with the ions."
"The interplanetary trajectories of vehicles propelled by solar radiation pressure are analyzed, and are shown to be logarithmic spirals if thrust direction is constant with respect to the vehicle-sun line. The required thrust may be obtained with a solar sail. Sail size as a function of trip time to Mars is determined for solar thrust, oriented tangent to the trajectory. Solar propulsion is compared with chemical and electrical propulsion. It is shown that a solar-sail-powered space vehicle on a journey from earth to Mars operates with a payload and flight time penalty when compared with a ballistic vehicle. However, the work capacity per unit weight of a solar sail is calculated to be superior to an electrical engine, which in turn is vastly superior to a chemical engine when the work is compared on the basis of equal flight times."
"The similarities and differences between interplanetary navigation and navigation on the earth are discussed. It is shown that in interplanetary space, position-fixing can be accomplished by a simple extension of the techniques already familiar to all navigators; but, when very close to the destination, other techniques are more suitable."
"If electronics can be satisfactorily applied to celestial navigation, a system having universal coverage without weather limitations might be produced. Radio stars are not a promising possibility, but the sun and moon are being tracked by the U. S. Navy Radio Sextant, AN/SRN-4, to provide limited coverage. Universal coverage might be achieved by the addition of artificial earth satellites. Satellites in orbits a few hundred miles from the earth might be used in some form of piloting system, but orbit-prediction problems, limited coverage by individual satellites, and computer complexities are serious obstacles to be overcome by such a system. A different approach would be to place three or four satellites in orbits at an optimum distance somewhere between 1000 and 12,000 miles from the earth to serve as artificial celestial bodies in a system that would be a natural evolution from traditional celestial navigation methods. A stabilized directional antenna operating with a receiver capable of accepting signals from both the satellites and the sun would provide angle measurement data both for fixing the position of the craft and also for establishing a north reference. The degree of sophistication of the user equipment would differ with requirements."
"It is shown that a satellite Doppler navigation system can provide navigation to at least one-half mile accuracy from a single pass of a satellite, provided that proper use is made of the full Doppler curve. While not extensively discussed, a satellite Doppler navigation system is presented which conveniently provides navigators with all necessary inputs for position calculation, including up-to-date orbital data. The main body of the paper presents the results of a comprehensive error analysis which proves the feasibility of achieving navigational accuracies of one-half mile using such a system under realistic conditions."
"Satellites which can be positioned precisely in space will be required for the space research programs of the near future. The information obtainable with such vehicles will be of immediate importance to both military and basic scientific research programs. Typical applications include meteorological observations, communications, atmospheric research and, ultimately, soft-landing vehicles for manned space travel. To accomplish accurate control of orbit and/or attitude with rocket motors requires extremely precise regulation of thrusts, generally in the range between 0 to 1 or 0 to 10 pounds. It must be possible to turn these control forces on and off in a few milliseconds repeatedly or intermittently over periods of from several months to perhaps several years. For use in such applications, rocket units have been investigated which employ the combination of storable-liquid propellants and demand-thrust injectors capable of complete remote control. An experimental model of a 0- to 10-pound thrust engine has been successfully demonstrated. Three types of electrically actuated control systems are being investigated. These systems employ direct solenoid control, a magnetic ram hydraulic booster, and a micropump with a hydraulic servomechanism. Guidance signals of 50 microamps are used to regulate power to the engine controls."
"Because of recent improvements, inertial guidance is becoming increasingly important to space and missile programs in connection with the navigation of mobile bases and the launching of vehicles. Gyroscopes are an important component of inertial systems. In order to see if much room remains for further improvement, the performance limitation imposed by thermal fluctuations in gyroscopes is examined. This is done because experience in electronics shows that thermal noise is the ultimate performance limitation in sensitive instruments such as radio receivers and galvanometers. It is found that a system limited only by thermal noise in its gyroscopes would have several orders of magnitude more precision than that indicated in published performance data. This must mean that other factors are limiting performance of gyroscopes, and investigation of several of these shows that bearing noise may be an important one. In conclusion, since gyroscopes do not yet come near to attaining the performance limits set by thermal noise, there may be much room left for their further improvement."
"The Astronautic Chart is a nomograph or alignment chart so arranged that a single straight line marks off values of the velocity, mass, mean distance, period, and acceleration of any two-body orbiting system. It is illustrated with numerous examples of orbits of planets about the sun, moons about their planets, and artificial earth satellites. All scales give correct values at the extremities of the minor diameter of the elliptical orbit. In the case of binary stars where the masses are comparable, the scales also give correct values of the total mass, total separation, relative velocity, and relative acceleration."
"A study has been carried out for the United States Air Force investigating the use of natural electromagnetic radiation in the space environment for navigational purposes. Radiations from the sun, the stars, and interstellar space in both the visible and RF portions of the spectrum and also cosmic rays have been investigated. Emphasis has been placed on the measurement of velocity in space utilizing the Doppler phenomenon. Equipment and techniques useful in deriving velocity information from Doppler shift measurements are described and figures for expected accuracy are derived. Other passive techniques having possible application to space navigation such as the measurement of total solar radiation and solar diameter are briefly discussed."
"A generalized theory of detection system performance is developed and applied to the analysis of collision warning and the optimal allocation of search effort for astronautical vehicles. The kinematic basis of the relative frequency of intercepts with randomly moving particles is presented. The pronounced variation in warning system effectiveness if the possible contact space is uniformly scanned is displayed by investigating the functional behavior of the weighted mean acquisition range and cumulative probability of detection by some minimal detection barrier in the hypervelocity closure rate, low signal amplitude operational environment. Fixing the search system frame time, it is shown that the probability of acquiring a closing particle by some critical range determined by the system response delay may be made independent of the bearing angle of the relative approach path by choosing search system dwell times that are proportional to the second or fourth power of the mean anticipated closure rate, the exponent being dependent upon whether the sensor is active or passive. The rational choice of the frame time is investigated in terms of the information rate out of the sensor and the requirements of the decision-making apparatus. The latter is assumed to be an unsaturated, bandwidth and memory limited data processing subsystem. The probability of track retention and the variance of the best estimate of the contact-bearing angle are related to the cumulative probability of detection. It is shown that the required system reaction times are in conflict with the optimal detection system information rates."
"A field test program for an inertial guidance system can easily extend from coast to coast and will require large numbers of experienced personnel and equipments. Included in the field test program are Sled Tests, Captive Tests, Flight Test, Operational Tests and Contractor Liaison. These areas of tests are described and objectives are reviewed and discussed."
"Examination of the fundamental limitations on modulation efficiency and present state-of-the-art practices in transmitter design, solar cell power sources, receiver design and antenna design shows that communication with large information rates is possible throughout the solar system but that practical interstellar communication is not now feasible. Two representative telemetry systems are discussed, the FM/PM analog Microlock system and the digital Telebit system."
"The problems of propagation and communications arising from landings on the Moon, Venus, or Mars are treated in terms of the characteristics required for the communication system to achieve data transfer between parties on the surface of these bodies and the communications problems arising in the transfer of information from these bodies back to the Earth. Consideration is given to Doppler shift, Faraday rotation, tracking and stabilization of antennas, and ground network requirements. The problems of communications between vehicles in space in terms of signal acquisition and antenna orientation and tracking are described."
"A generalized form of the Doppler equation is derived by field theory. The equation permits consideration of the effect of propagation phenomena on the Doppler shift under space flight conditions. As an example of an application, the effect of a medium which is nonhomogeneous in the flight direction is investigated. A deviation of the longitudinal and a transverse Doppler shift are the consequences. The magnitudes of both effects, which have to be taken into account in tracking, navigation, and Doppler evaluations, are considered."
"Of increasing importance in communication systems, particularly those required for data transmission from space craft, is the minimization of the total transmitted energy required to transmit a given amount of data. Modulation systems can be compared on the basis of a figure of merit defined as the ratio of energy required per bit transmitted in the presence of a given noise spectral density. Using this criterion, several families of communication systems are compared in this article, including AM, FM, FM/FM, and orthogonal matched filter communication systems. It is found that the orthogonal systems uniformly require less power to transmit at a given information rate than other systems and approach closely the theoretical limit established by Shannon's channel capacity theorem."
"Our ability to communicate with vehicles in space continues to be limited by the amount of received energy required to transmit a unit of information to earth. We have available, in practical hardware, radio-communication systems which provide us with theoretical maximum performance in terms of data bandwidth and distortion for a given transmission range and power output. The development and refinement of transmission, receiving, and powersupply techniques will extend the range of communication or increase the data bandwidth at a given range; but any significant extension of our capacity to communicate in space must come from advances in the state-of-the-art of telemetry data handling. New and advanced means for data processing and encoding prior to transmission should be investigated. The discussion which follows defines some technical areas which merit investigation, presents an outline for one approach to such an investigation and contemplates the evaluation of findings."
"Present-day refinements in communication systems make it appear that extraterrestrial noise sources may establish a fundamental limitation on long-range communications. The various cosmic and solar system radio sources are considered with respect to their intensities, spectral distributions, and temporal characteristics. The most severe forms of interference occur in the long-wavelength regions of the radio-frequency spectrum, so that the future of space communications probably lies in the perfecting of low-noise microwave systems."
"Military requirements for space communications are described in terms of general needs rather than specific applications. Communications to meet these needs may be divided into communications to, from, and among objects in space. The functions of these communications are command, tracking, and data transmission, the major considerations affecting each function being briefly described. Communications by means of objects in space, which is of most interest here, is comprised of systems utilizing either passive or active relay objects. The latter systems may be delayed retransmission types or real time repeaters, both of which may have military application."
"This paper is intended to provide a review of communication satellites starting with their comparatively brief history and continuing through present developments and future concepts and the probable impact on global communications. The advantages and disadvantages are considered for various types of passive and active devices, for various orbits, and from the standpoint of both military and commercial applications. Consideration of all major technical and economic factors leads to the conclusion that a system of 3 or 4 repeater satellites in 24-hour orbits will best meet future world-wide communication requirements. A number of system concepts are described, including time-synchronous and frequency-sharing systems. Important aspects of communication satellite design are discussed including electronics, antennas, power supply, structure, attitude and position stabilization, command control, and telemetering. Selection of frequency is shown to be not critical over a wide range. Choice of design parameters such as power output, antenna gain, stabilization accuracy, etc., is largely dependent on the desired capacity of the communication system and the available satellite payload. Some typical parameters for a high capacity system are presented. Reliability is an over-riding consideration in satellite design and it is proposed to achieve desired life by proper choice of components, by use of redundancy, and by minimization of satellite requirements at the expense of the ground equipment. Based on published information on ARPA-NASA programs and booster capabilities, some estimates are made of the rate of progress which can be expected in communication satellites, leading to their eventual use in military and commercial communications."
"The use of active and passive relays is considered for application to long-distance global trunk communication, with particular emphasis on economic utilization of the media from the traffic capacity viewpoint. Active and passive techniques are compared with regard to power requirements, coverage, mutual interference, and ability to exploit wide-band modulation systems to reduce interference. With the emphasis on microwave transmission, narrow beamwidths, and a multiplicity of relays, channel allocations of the future will necessarily be determined by spatial considerations, in addition to specifying frequency bands. Examples with typical global paths and assumed active and passive systems are illustrated. It is concluded that, although a great increase in transmission capacity is forecast with the new techniques, a much broader scope of coordination will be necessary to control interference."
"A number of communications capabilities are noted as desirable goals and the characteristics of passive satellite reflectors are cited as a means of achieving them. Goals noted are the attainment of transoceanic ranges, high communications traffic per satellite, low launching and operating costs, high reliability, simplicity of operation, and long useful life of satellites. The properties of various types of passive reflectors are discussed and the characteristics of the sphere are shown to be particularly advantageous. Passive satellite communications systems are compared with current tropospheric scatter systems and are shown to be one order of magnitude better, using power per channel per unit range as a criterion. Some attention is given to Doppler shift as it bears upon the problem of transmitter-receiver channel coordination, satellite acquisition, and tracking."
"The use of a passive satellite for over-the-horizon communication links has been proposed by Pierce and Kompfner. To confirm the theoretical work which has been done to date, NASA is planning to launch an aluminum coated, 100-foot-diameter plastic sphere for such a communication relay. In addition to confirming the feasibility of a communication link, the NASA sphere can be instrumental in confirming theoretical work in UHF propagation characteristics. With regard to conducting propagation studies, an essential requirement is that the sphere's scattering properties be described in advance of the experiment. The scattering properties of a metallic sphere (whose radius is very large with respect to the wavelength of the incident radiation) are described in this article. It is shown that the sphere's scattered field pattern is a function of the incident radiation's polarization scheme, and that the choice of any particular polarization scheme depends upon the experiment to be performed."
"This paper is designed to provide a review and summary of the over-all program of development, construction and operation by the U. S. Army Signal Research and Development Laboratory of the first satellite communication system placed in orbit on December 18, 1958. This effort was part of Project SCORE (Signal Communication by Orbiting Relay Experiment) directed by ARPA. Basically, Project SCORE consisted of designing, constructing, and conducting an actual flight experiment of a delayed repeater type satellite package using an actual stripped down Atlas missile as the satellite container. The major points to be covered are summarized in the following paragraphs. A brief historical résumé of the project will cover the preliminary discussions regarding the feasibility of orbiting an Atlas ICBM; the vehicle and weight limitation affecting preliminary system design; mechanical and electrical test problems and ground station installation and on-site training. The system description will cover orbit data; ground station site location and control; airborne equipment components such as antennas, temperature control and communication electronics; general considerations of system design and design problems; ground station equipment including recording and test equipment and associated ground communication equipment."
"The design criteria and results of the design of a broad-band spherical antenna are discussed. The parameters of design and their effect on radiation patterns are briefly investigated. The particular antenna was developed from an equiangular spiral slot plotted on a plane and then projected on the surface of a sphere. Attention is given to problems of isolation and matching when the antenna is used for multifrequency operation. The particular antenna discussed is being used in the TRANSIT satellite program."
"The introductory part of this paper will provide a brief summary of how recent advances in military electronics for ground and space applications have created an urgent need for new energy sources and power supplies. In this search for new sources of power, considerable attention is being devoted to the utilization of solar energy. A short summary will be provided of the applications of USA-SRDL-developed solar cells in the satellite field to date. This will include a discussion of the apparent reliability and efficiency of solar cells in operating situations and the environmental factors affecting solar cells. A brief discussion will be given of the various methods of mounting solar cells with succinct comments on the advantages and disadvantages of different methods. Reference will also be made to USASRDL quality control methods and the quality vs cost problem. The primary portion of the paper will be devoted to a detailed discussion of those energy conversion devices which employ static methods for direct conversion of solar energy to electrical energy, i.e., those types which utilize the thermoelectric, Edison (thermionic emission), photovoltaic and photoemission effects. The relative merits of these systems based on present and anticipated conversion efficiencies are reviewed, in brief, for guidance as to future possibilities of these types of devices and their utilization in the satellite program."
"The basic principles of radiative cooling of electronic components and subassemblies in a satellite are discussed, and estimates are made of the lowest temperatures attainable in a satellite by completely passive means. It appears feasible to maintain some compartments within a satellite at temperatures of 250°K or lower, so an opportunity is presented for refrigerating components whose characteristics are enhanced at lower temperatures."
"When the U. S. Army lunar program was initiated in 1958, the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) was assigned the responsibility for the upper rocket stages and the payload. Payload responsibility included radio tracking and communication with the lunar probe. JPL's Microlock system, used for communicating with the early Explorer satellites, did not have sufficient range to perform this mission. Therefore, a new radio system designated TRAC(E) (TRacking And Communication, Extra-terrestrial) was designed. To the best knowledge of the authors, the TRAC(E) system is the first deep-space communication link to provide accurate tracking and telemetry data at lunar distances. The design principles of the TRAC(E) system are presented in this paper in conjunction with a description of the equipment and actual performance data taken during the Pioneer IV lunar mission in March, 1959. The TRAC(E) system is an integral part of the NASA/JPL radio tracking station located near Goldstone Lake north of Barstow, Calif. Future plans for improving the performance of the TRAC(E) system are indicated."
"In a new method of displaying the predicted paths and real-time positions of artificial earth satellites, cathode-ray tubes are used with two types of map overlays: orthographic projection and Mercator projection. Functions to match these projections are generated electronically. Auxiliary satellite information is cataloged and made available through \"light gun\" interrogation of the satellites displayed on the CRT. The display and orbit simulator can be used as an integral part of a live tracking system. A mathematical derivation of the subsatellite path on the orthographic projection is given."
"A complete system for satellite detection and tracking and for computations of satellite orbits has been built by the Navy under ARPA sponsorship. This detection system uses a CW transmitter separated from two receiving sites, all having fan-type coplanar antenna beams. The angle of arrival of the reflected signals is measured at each station by the use of an interferometer. The position of the reflecting object is inferred by the point in the fan antenna beam defined by the intersection of the arrival angles at the two receiving stations. Two ARPA-sponsored Space Surveillance radal (radio detection and location) devices of the type described have been installed in the southern U. S. In addition to the detecting and tracking installation the system includes data transmission lines, a data reduction center, a very high speed computer for orbit determination and predictions, and display devices."
"The scintillation of satellite-emitted radio signals has been observed using two different techniques, namely, Doppler-shift frequency measurements and radio direction finding. In this shortened version of our complete paper, there are given the results obtained using Doppler-shift measurements only. Variations from a smooth Doppler-shift curve obtained during individual orbits give a measure of the frequency scintillation occurring and thus of the roughness of the ionospheric path between the satellite and the observer. As expected, these variations are a function of frequency, and they become less as the frequency is increased."
"A number of observations are presented which show a close correlation between CW-reflected HF signals and passes of artificial earth satellites. The periodic (nonrandom) occurrence of the signal bursts and the symmetry of some burst sequences are indicative of satellite-related phenomena. The occurrence of a variety of satellite-related Doppler effects are described and several satellite ionization mechanisms are also discussed. The possible relation of the satellite phenomenon to prior solar activity is mentioned."
"The use of telemetry systems over interplanetary distances generates performance requirements more severe than ever before experienced. Full exploitation of the foreseeable state-of-the-art and high over-all operational efficiencies will be essential in fulfilling the requirements of these rigorous standards of performance. The problem areas associated with interplanetary telemetry and an approach to the selection of system operating parameters are discussed. The analysis is based on the dividing of operational efficiency into two categories: information efficiency and physical system efficiency. The performance of a typical interplanetary system is analyzed to exemplify the importance of a number of the operating parameters which affect system performance."
"This paper presents some of the problems which are faced in the field of space telemetry, and gives a few examples of the approaches used in attempts to solve these problems to date. The different types of information to be transmitted back to receiving stations on the earth from satellites and space probes are discussed. The telemetry systems (FM/FM, FM/AM, PCM/PM, etc.) which have been used in various experiments of this type are described, along with some typical performance figures for some past payloads. The paper is concluded with a discussion of the problems to be faced in future experiments."
"A signal-to-noise comparison is given between the pulse-frequency channels and the pulse-width channels for the FM/PDM-AM telemetry system. It is shown that the pulse-frequency channels have either a higher signal-to-noise ratio or greater information rate capability than the pulse-width channels."
"In practice, most missile test signals requiring wideband telemetry channels are high-frequency random signals obtained from vibration accelerometers, etc. However, their information content is contained in their slowly-varying statistical parameters. Considered are the unique problems associated with first extracting the spectral density plot of high-frequency random signals (one of the most useful of the statistical parameters), and then presenting this to the telemeter. Design formulas are derived showing the interrelationship between the parameters of the random signal and the characteristics of the telemetry. Formulas indicating the tremendous improvement in bandwidth efficiency are also given."
"The problems associated with propagation of electromagnetic telemetry and communication (and guidance) signals through the densely ionized region (plasma) generated by, and surrounding a hypersonic space vehicle re-entering the earth's atmosphere are reviewed. The nature and extent of the plasma-radio wave interference is explained in terms of the classical treatments which have evolved from ionospheric studies. The limitations of the simple classical models are pointed out in the light of the more complex nature of the hypersonically generated plasma. Methods for overcoming the deleterious influences of the plasma are presented, culminating in presentation of some new approaches to this problem."
"A highly flexible analog and digital airborne data acquisition system has been designed and developed by Radiation, Inc., for the General Electric Company Flight Test Facility at Edwards Air Force Base, Calif. The acquired data is recorded on one-inch tape. The format may be fourteen tracks of analog or seven tracks of analog with sixteen tracks of digital data. Ampex AR-200 equipment is used on the analog subsystem. Complete analog system reference data are recorded on one track. The digital system has extreme flexibility. From ten to ninety channels may be programmed for individual word rates of from 1.25 samples per second to 2×103 samples per second. System word rates are 20 kc, 10 kc, 5 kc, and 2.5 kc. The analog-to-digital converter performs up to 2×104 conversions per second, depending on the selected sampling rate of the multiplexer. Time-history and system marker data are also recorded. Provision for acceptance of Gray code digital input data has been made. The input on any channel may be lowlevel (±10 mv full scale) or high-level (±5 volts full scale). Signal conditioning and automatic calibration are provided. Multiplexer channel capacity can be extended by the addition of more modules. Flexibility of programmiang is provided with pluggable program boards. The system is designed using all transistorized components and is constructed to withstand vehicular environmental extremes. Detailed descriptions of the low-level gate circuit, programming, accumulating, and coding techniques are made."
"The proposed paper discusses the problems arising in the design of an ac transistorized power supply for low power synchronous motors used in satellite recorders. It treats a current design for a specific satellite application, presents the design of the over-all system, and states alternate methods that can be used. The paper also discusses the over-all system parameters which must be considered in the choice of a hysteresis synchronous motor, the motor's operating frequency, and its characteristics. Also treated in the paper is a transistorized dc motor control used in a Signal Corps tape recorder. It discusses the servo loop used to accomplish the control of speed, and the accuracy that may be obtained. Diagrams of the exact circuit are presented and analyzed so that the reader may apply the technique to his future needs. The relative advantages and disadvantages of the dc motor and ac synchronous motor in the low-power output range are discussed. The system is designed to meet the environment of the satellite package. The emphasis is on a system requiring a minimum of power consumption and smallest possible size and weight, with no sacrifice of reliability or performance."
"While it is obvious that missiles for different space programs carry widely different electronic equipment, it is not so apparent that missiles on the same program may carry just as wide a variety of equipment. Checkout and countdown equipment must be versatile, not only because of the variety of electronic airborne equipment, but because of the special needs of research and development programs and for follow-on programs. Moreover, the equipment must offer a high level of performance reliability, so that the operator may concentrate on firing the missile. The design of the centrally programmed checkout and countdown set presented here incorporates digital techniques. The punched tape supplies those commands that are subject to frequent change, such as GO-NO-GO limits- and mode and range commands for the parameter converters. Manual operation and visual evaluation are possible. These provisions also raise follow-on utility. Use of the design criteria of self-verification at every step, positive malfunction localization, standby verification and design simplicity yield a design with a high level of performance reliability."
"One of the devices carried aboard lunar payloads, Pioneer III and Pioneer IV, was a radiation measurement instrument. Its purpose was to detect and process information on particle flux rates encountered along the nominal cis-lunar trajectory to be followed by those payloads. Radiation data were collected by two different Geiger-Mueller tubes. One tube registered particle counts and the resultant accumulation was stored in a 17-stage scaler. The other tube provided average pulse current that was a compressed function of the counting rate. This current was fed to a resistor and the voltage thus formed was transferred to a telemetering subcarrier oscillator by way of a stable dc amplifier. The electronics discussed in this paper fall into three groups: 1) dc amplifier for the analog experiment, 2) high-voltage circuitry for the detectors, 3) digital circuitry for the counting experiment. Details of the encoding system, which permits a large dynamic range of counting rates to be clearly presented on a single subcarrier, are also discussed."
"The problem of stabilizing space vehicles is considered, and it is shown that at least for some important applications the intrinsic stabilization obtained by rotation of the entire vehicle is advantageous. Investigations which have been made of natural methods for damping nutational vibrations of such rotating vehicles are discussed in the following manner. A laboratory simulator is described which has been found very useful in testing the various devices suggested for nutation damping. A number of references to recent analytical studies of nutation dampers are given. One approach, a rigorous attack on a simplified arrangement, is described in some detail. Also, formulas based on an intuitive approach are derived for the design of both the pendulum and the mercury dampers. Finally, an interesting and, it is believed, entirely new basic design criterion for stable operation of coupled rotating bodies, such as a space vehicle with pendulum nutation dampers, is demonstrated."
"This paper describes a receiving station network that was designed to produce Doppler data for use in a satellite Doppler navigation system. As a result of practical exigencies, this equipment is not optimum for its intended purpose, and a continuous effort is being maintained to improve the system. Current and projected changes are described briefly. Some experimental results obtained with the present system are presented."
"This paper begins with a discussion of the precision with which the Doppler shift in the signal received from a space vehicle can be measured, using existing atomic frequency standards on the ground, and a proposed transponder system on the vehicle. Applications of Doppler methods to measuring the gravitational redshift, to tracking space probes and measuring certain astronomical constants, and to geodesy, making use of the precision of atomic standards, are then presented. The conclusion drawn is that Doppler methods can imnprove upon existing accuracy in these areas."
"A cancellation technique permits measurement of the frequency of a source moving relative to an observer without the obscuring effect of first-order Doppler shifts. The application of this method to a gravitational red shift experiment involving the use of an earth satellite containing a highly stable oscillator is described. The rapidity with which a measurement can be made permits the taking of data at various altitudes in a given elliptical orbit. Tropospheric and ionospheric effects upon the accuracy of results are estimated."
"As the avenues of space travel broaden, the problem of determining the attitude of the space vehicle becomes more difficult; hence, the need for a compact, reliable sensing device is becoming increasingly important. This paper presents the design features of an attitude sensing device which is quite compact and should prove to be reliable. The original objective in the design of the device was to provide a simple means' of establishing a vertical reference line from an orbiting space vehicle to a planet under observation. It has been accomplished through the use of two narrow infrared scanning beams. The center line of each beam rotates at constant angular velocity in a plane, the plane of one beam being perpendicular to that of the other. The active portion of the scan is 270° for each beam. When the scanner intersects the planet, a step in the signal level occurs. Position of the beam when the half width of the signal step occurs establishes a plane which contains the center of the planet. Intersection of the two such planes generated by the dual scanner is the direction to the planet local vertical. The assembly is described in detail. Further, by using analog computer techniques, it is shown that pitch and roll angles about this vertical reference line can be generated. A single degree of freedom gyro can be added to the equipment to produce yaw information in the case of an orbiting vehicle. Finally, a method for measuring altitude is discussed."
"Highly stable micromicroammeters capable of measuring currents as low as 5 × 10-14 amperes with a frequency response of at least 30 cps can be realized using directly-coupled electrometer circuitry. The circuit can be packaged in approximately 9 cubic inches and requires less than 100 mw of power. An analysis of the speed of response and signal-to-noise ratio is given in the text and expressions are derived to show the theoretical possibilities of the method and to serve as design guides for realization of the maximum possible performance. Several practical circuits are shown and a summary is presented of the number of circuits which have been used in rocket and satellite exploration."
"The problem of an instrument to discriminate automatically between liquid and gaseous hydrogen has been solved. The principle of operation involves the dependence of acoustic radiation resistance upon density of the medium. The instrument comprises a quartz piezoelectric vibrator immersed in the medium and developing at its terminals a radiation resistance, and an electronic unit external to the medium, which automatically converts this resistance to a signal for measurement or control. The system is suitable for use with most fluids, including hydrogen, oxygen, and kerosene. Hydrogen is of particular interest because low density provides a less distinct interface, particularly at high pressure. The radiation resistance of practicable sensor configurations is analyzed for a number of fluids and experimental data are presented for conditions of liquid, gas, and wet in gas. An electronic technique for precise conversion of radiation resistance to a control signal is described. A stable negative resistance is generated, and maintenance of oscillation is the criterion for radiation resistance greater or less than the prescribed value of negative resistance. This negative resistance is chosen to be intermediate in value between the values which obtain for liquid and gas phases. Stable radiation resistance resolution of a few per cent has been obtained easily without encountering any limiting condition. An example of equipment designed for missile environmental conditions is described."
"A measuring system for monitoring dynamic level variations in red fuming nitric acid is discussed. The system employs a continuous variable-capacitance sensor with a tuned-circuit capacitance detector. The transistorized, temperature-stabilized capacitance detector is discussed in detail. Performance data are presented."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Listed is information on Russian technical literature in electronics and allied fields which is available in the US in the English language. Further inquiries should be directed to the sources listed. In addition, general information on translation programs in the US may be obtained from the Office of Science Information Service, National Science Foundation, Washington DC, USA and from the Office of Technical Services, US Department of Commerce, Washington DC, USA."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This paper summarizes briefly the chronology of the development of parametric transducers. The early works of Michael Faraday (1831), F. Melde (1859), and Lord Rayleigh (1883) are cited as mechanical examples and the pioneering work of L. Kühn, J. Zenneck, E. F. W. Alexanderson and R. V. L. Hartley are cited as electrical examples. A very brief résumé of selected contributions follows, dating from the work on H. Q. North's diodes in 1945 to the present flurry of excitement beginning in 1954, created by the development of the Signal Corps-Bell Laboratories Task 8 varactor diodes. A list of 200 selected references is included."
"This paper describes the use of the new tunnel diode in a down converter. An experimental UHF circuit converting from a signal frequency of 210 mc to an intermediate frequency of 30 mc is used to illustrate the feasibility of this new converter. Conversion power gain of 22 db with less than 3 db noise has been achieved with gallium arsenide diodes. The circuit analysis proceeds from the basic nonlinear resistance of the tunnel diode I-V characteristic. Equations are developed for conversion gain, bandwidth and noise figure. From these equations, criteria are derived for the choice of diode characteristics and circuit parameters to obtain optimum performance."
"A theoretical derivation, verified by experiment, shows that the maximum visible line number of a displayed bar pattern is directly proportional to the signal-to-white-noise ratio. The constant of proportionality and the effect of finite screen boundaries have been experimentally determined. It is found both theoretically and experimentally that the masking effect of white noise depends only on the noise power per unit bandwidth, and is independent of the upper frequency limit of the noise spectrum, provided that this exceeds the frequency limit set by the eye. These results can be used together with the aperture response of any imaging system to predict in quantitative terms the resolution limit as a function of the signal and noise levels. As an example, the theorems postulated are used together with the measured amplitude response function of the 5820-image orthicon to obtain a universal resolution vs signal-to-noise ratio curve for beam-noise-limited tubes of the image orthicon type. The predicted performance is in good agreement with experimental results. A similar set of curves for quantum-noise-limited image tubes is also given. The effects of object contrast variation, signal integration in time, and the presence of spurious background are presented."
"A low-noise tunable L-band maser system is described. The maser uses a pink ruby crystal oriented at 90° and is tunable from 850 to 2000 mc. The voltage-gain bandwidth product is as high as 37.5 mc at a liquid helium bath temperature of 1.5°K. An L-band circulator has been developed for use with the maser. It has an insertion loss of 0.3 db, operates over a 200-mc frequency range at L-band, and determines the usable tuning range of the circulator-maser system. The maser and circulator have been packaged into an operational unit that includes all auxiliary components, and has a system noise factor of 0.5 db (35°K). Electrical and mechanical features of the system are described and performance data are given."
"The experimental evaluation of cadmium sulfide field effect transistors indicates that, although the material does not compete with germanium for general transistor application, useful power gain was achieved and certain advantages exist for CdS in phototransistor applications. Many unique circuit functions can be performed by the device. The active electronic properties vary greatly with the intensity and wavelength of incident light, and with photoconductivity quenching infrared radiation. Voltage gains greater than 500, mutual transconductances up to 20 μmho and input resistances near 100 megohms have been observed. Electron-hole pairs are generated photoelectrically in the highly pure, single crystal CdS. The holes are virtually immobile and form a space charge when an applied electric field removes the mobile electrons from a region. Modulation of the space charge boundary by application of a potential to one terminal of the device produces modulation of the conductance between two other terminals and signal amplification results. Attempts to correlate the illumination sensitivity of the terminal characteristics with theoretical field effect parameters indicates the carrier distribution in the crystal is complex and varies with illumination wavelength and quenching intensity."
"Starting from the definition of a determinant and using a few of its elementary properties, this paper gives an independent derivation of the optimum formula for the gain of a flow graph. Thus, a simpler path is shown to Coates' important result. This paper is self-contained, so that no previous knowledge of flow graphs is required. For motivation, the reader is referred to some well kmown papers and books."
"A tube is described which utilizes the cyclotron motion of electrons to provide a resonant system which is tuned by variation of the magnetic flux density. The amplitude of the cyclotron motion depends upon the relationship of the applied signal frequency and the electron cyclotron frequency; at resonance, the amplitude is maximum. Resonance is detected by shooting the spiraling electrons through a honey-comb type mesh grid; the current intercepted by the grid is greatest at resonance and is proportional to the RF signal power. The tube is a complete TRF receiver (less video amplifier) within one vacuum envelope. The resonant frequency is a linear function of solenoid current; the tube can be tuned over a wide frequency range (at least 10:1) with a single control. The characteristics of the device have been investigated for resonant frequencies from 65 to 650 mc; the sensitivity and 3-db RF bandwidth can be varied within limits; typical signal sensitivity is -45 dbm (500-kc video bandwidth) with a 4-mc 3-db RF bandwidth. The measured characteristics and the theoretical predictions are in reasonable agreement."
"This paper summarizes recent measurements of the attenuation of radio waves by atmospheric gases and compares the measured losses with those predicted by Van Vleck. Reasonably good agreement has been noted between the predicted and measured losses for oxygen, but the measured loss for water vapor is considerably in excess of that predicted. Various factors which may influence this discrepancy are discussed."
"The perturbation in the complex propagation constant of a lossy, nonreciprocal, periodic waveguide produced by the insertion of a rod, which may be cylindrical or periodic, parallel to the waveguide axis is developed. The application to the experimental determination of the interaction impedance and electromagnetic field distribution of waveguides is presented, together with the approximations which are applicable. The perturbation formulas for three particular classes of circuit-lossless, reciprocal, cylindrical circuits; lossy, nonreciprocal, cylindrical circuits; and lossy, nonreciprocal, periodic circuits-of interest for traveling wave tubes and other extended interaction microwave tubes, are derived and the limitations discussed. Explicit interaction impedance relations for these circuits in terms of the phase constant perturbation, caused by a cylindrical or periodic rod, are given."
"This paper presents a new transform calculus for analyzing a certain class of nonlinear systems. The method, which can be justified rigorously by the partition theory, essentially transforms a nonlinear differential equation having certain conditions imposed on its linear, nonlinear, and driving terms into an algebraic equation. The latter is easily solved recursively owing to its symmetry and convolution properties. The transform pair is based on a combination of the Cauchy integral theorem and Taylor's series in complex form. To illustrate the method a number of examples are solved and a table of transforms is included. Because the results of this transform technique are the same as those given by the partition method under certain circumstances, the two are compared. It is then seen that the solution can be obtained uniquely and exactly. The Taylor-Cauchy transform method can be compared with the Laurent-Cauchy transform method, given in a companion paper, for the solution of linear systems described by differential-difference and sum equations."
"The Taylor-Cauchy transform for the analysis of nonlinear systems was presented at the 1959 IRE National Convention. In this paper it is shown that the Laurent-Cauchy transform can be derived from the Taylor-Cauchy transform by a simple mapping. Whereas a complex λ plane is used in the Taylor-Cauchy transform, a complex ρ plane is used in the Laurent-Cauchy trans-form where the two complex variables are related by λ = 1/ρ. In the Taylor-Cauchy transform method, W(k)(λ), the kth derivative of W(λ), converges inside a circle. However, in the Laurent-Cauchy transform method, H(ρ) converges outside of a circle of radius R. Thus, W(k)(λ) is expressible by a Taylor series whose general term is Σ wn,kρn and H(ρ) is expressible by a Laurent series whose general term is Σ hn ρ-n. In either case, the relation between the coefficients of the power series and the function of a complex variable is given by Cauchy's integral. In conjunction with the Laplace transform, the Laurent-Cauchy transform can be used to analyze discrete-continuous systems such as digital servomechanisms, retarded feedback control systems, certain analog-digital computer systems, and pulsed-data systems. If n is replaced by n T, where T is a sampling time, and hn is taken to mean h(n T), the Laurent-Cauchy transform reduces to the Z-transform. A table of Laurent-Cauchy transforms, several theorems, and three examples are given in the paper."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Listed is information on Russian technical literature in electronics and allied fields which is available in the US in the English language. Further inquiries should be directed to the sources listed. In addition, general information on translation programs in the US may be obtained from the Office of Science Information Service, National Science Foundation, Washington DC, USA and from the Office of Technical Services, US Department of Commerce, Washington DC, USA."
"The Television Allocations Study Organization was established by the television industry in September, 1956, at the request of the Federal Communications Commission, to make a thorough analysis of the engineering aspects of problems relating to the television broadcast allocations. This paper relates the needs underlying the request and gives a brief history of television allocations, culminating in the events leading to the formation of TASO."
"During the past three years, a comprehensive study has been made of the engineering factors underlying the allocation of frequencies for television broadcasting. This work has been carried on by an industry-wide group known as the Television Allocations Study Organization (TASO). This paper outlines the objectives and organization of TASO, and summarizes the more significant findings relating to field strength measurement and analysis, field tests of television reception, laboratory studies of television picture quality, tropospheric wave propagation, and performance of receiving and transmitting equipment. The performance capabilities of UHF and VHF television broadcasting systems are compared."
"The effective and intelligent administration of television broadcast channel allocations requires acceptably accurate estimates of field strengths which will be produced by television broadcast stations. Propagation curves and prediction methods in use at the time of the founding of TASO were in many respects inadequate. Insufficient data were available for the preparation of new propagation curves; a new standard measuring specification was prepared, and an extensive program of field strength measurements was undertaken. This paper discusses the details of the TASO field strength measuring specification and describes the program of field strength measurements. A summary of the results of the measurements is presented."
"The propagation of VHF and UHF television signals over a spherical, irregular surface such as the earth is examined theoretically and experimentally and the principal factors evaluated. The principal factors are found to be frequency, meteorology, terrain and vegetation. It is shown that meteorology, terrain and vegetation vary a significant amount geographically and that local values should be used in forecasting local service fields. The principal factors are included in a new empirical method suggested for forecasting the service fields of television stations. The signal forecast by the new method is compared with field-measured signals with good results."
"Field studies of UHF wave propagation between television transmitting and receiving antennas indicate that typical woods are essentially opaque at these frequencies. The signal in the presence of woods near the receiving antenna appears to be principally that diffracted over the trees, with a small residual \"leakage\" field observable where the diffracted fields are very weak. The results of measurements are compared with diffraction theory, and the attenuation below free space fields due to the woods is found to be in good agreement with that predicted for a spherical obstacle having a four-thirds earth's radius. The conclusions are applied to the estimation of average losses in large areas."
"This report presents data from long-term recordings of radio field strength over a large number of propagation paths, and presents curves for predicting field strength over a smooth earth for frequencies between 40 megacycles and 1000 megacycles per second. The basic data provided for the Television Allocations Study Organization during 1957 and 1958 include recordings made in several parts of the world and over various types of terrain and were supplied by numerous sources."
"In 1958, Panel 6 (Levels of Picture Quality) of the Television Allocations Study Organization conducted a comprehensive study of the subjective effects on picture quality of a number of types of interfering signals and noise, as functions of the levels of interference. These tests were designed and carried out by teams of engineers and experimental psychologists using a selective group of lay observers. This paper deals with the design of the tests and with the laboratory facilities used in the tests."
"A measurement program was conducted in which almost 200 observers made about 38,000 rating observations on color and monochrome stationary television pictures impaired by various known amounts of interference. Separate tests were made for the following types of interference: upper adjacent channel, lower adjacent channel, random noise, co-channel with each of six carrierfrequency separations, and simultaneous random noise and cochannel. Six rating grades were used as follows: 1) Excellent, 2) Fine, 3) Passable, 4) Marginal, 5) Inferior, and 6) Unusable. The observations were handled on a statistical cumulative frequency basis and plotted on probability paper. Commercial monochrome and color receivers were used, and the tests were made with laboratory signal-generating equipment on the lower VHF television channels. As representative results, a picture impaired by upper-adjacentchannel intereference (with 6-mc channels) was rated by 50 per cent of the observers as Passable or better for -27-db ratio of signal to interference. For the lower adjacent case a similar value was found, this result being explained as due to better traps in the medium-high-grade receivers of the test than in many receivers in use by the public. For random-noise interference the requirement for Passable or better rating by 50 per cent of the observers was +27 db on the basis of RMS sync amplitude to RMS noise over the 6-mc channel."
"The purpose of this paper is to present data which correlate a given level of picture quality with some corresponding level of measured field strength. The data were gathered by actual house-to-house surveys in conjunction with field strength measurements. This procedure was followed rather than making laboratory tests on new receivers because it was desired to evaluate coverage as it actually was, not as it ought to be. Particular attention was paid to differences between UHF and VHF channels with respect to receiver and antenna performance in given field strengths. The ranges of field strengths required for a passable picture quality are fairly well established for each band of television channels."
"Incorporate with the over-all study conducted by TASO, Panel 3 (Field Tests) in its study of reception problems conceived a six-page questionnaire which was circulated to that segment of the industry most closely associated with these problem areas-the television servicemen in communities across the nation. The questionnaire dealt with reception conditions, antennas, transmission lines, receivers and allied questions on both VHF and UHF covering both color and monochrome. The statistical compilation of answers received from the cooperating TV servicemen is included in this paper."
"This paper covers a study of various types of VHF and UHF television receiving equipment made by TASO Panel 2 and reported October 3, 1958. Information and performance data are given for antennas, transmission lines and television receivers. RF amplifier and oscillator electron devices (tubes and semiconductors) used in television tuners for both VHF and UHF are discussed and tables showing relative performance data for devices of various types are included. In addition to this study of home television receiving equipment, TASO Panel 2 made studies of 1) community television antenna and distribution systems, and 2) the effects of transmitter sound power reduction on television receiver performance. Results of these studies are also included. In general, data collected by Panel 2 show that performance of VHF equipment is markedly superior to that of UHF equipment and that a reduction in sound power of television transmitters is harmful to television reception, particularly in fringe areas."
"TASO made a thorough study of the characteristics, performance and cost of television transmitters, antennas and transmission lines, and translators. The results of these studies gives a clear picture of the technical and economic factors involved in operating television transmitters in the VHF and UHF bands. This paper summarizes some of these studies which are reported in detail in the TASO Report, \"Engineering Aspects of Television Allocations.\""
"In January, 1959, the Television Allocations Study Organization authorized its Committee on Directional Antennas to conduct field tests on directional TV antennas looking toward development of a means whereby the operational antenna pattern could be determined and to explore the effect of reflections and anomalous propagation on the degree of directivity actually obtained as compared with that calculated. Tests were subsequently carried out at WBZ-TV in Boston, Massachusetts, and at WKY-TV in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, with special directional antenna systems possessing various degrees of directivity. Measurements were made at distances varying from a few miles from the transmitter to well over 100 miles from the transmitter. Within the limits imposed upon the tests by the choice of sites, nature of the terrain, and a limited period of observation, it was found that propagation conditions did not materially affect the directivity of the array, even at distances where the scatter fields were of appreciable magnitude. In the course of these measurements and tests, a procedure was developed whereby the operational antenna pattern could not only be determined, but also rechecked at suitable intervals thereafter."
"During the Television Allocations Study Organization's deliberations the question of lowering the television soundto-picture power ratio from 50 per cent to 10 per cent was raised to determine its effect on allocation policy. The transmitter engineers favored it as simplifying the transmitter and reducing its price. The receiver engineers opposed it as reducing the useful range of the receiver and complicating its design. While TASO made no recommendation on the question, it is the author's personal opinion that it is best to leave well enough alone."
"Two methods for calculating the locations of boundary contours defining the limits for various grades of television service are described and discussed. The first is the location probability method, which has been used by the Federal Communications Commission for the past ten years in its allocation and channel assignment operations. The second is the newly developed acceptance ratio method, which emerged from the work of the Television Allocations Study Organization."
"Television allocation is technically dependent upon the properties of the television system comprising, in sequence, the transmitter plant, the propagation path, the receiver plant and the observer. Performance is limited either by receiver noise or by noise and undesired signals entering by way of the receiver antenna. Analysis of this system and its components has led to criteria by means of which service may be defined. These criteria have been incorporated in a procedure for producing maps portraying selected isoservice contours applicable as defining boundaries of the several grades of service. Precision of portrayal is limited essentially by the uncertainty of measurement or prediction of propagation which has led to the use of quasistatistical methods of treatment. Some resulting limitations are pointed out."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The Secretary's Report is published so the membership may be informed of the more important factors affecting the operation of Institute. Topics covered include membership issues, publication of the Proceedings, Sections news, Awards, finance matters, death announcements, and reviews of recent meetings"
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Listed is information on Russian technical literature in electronics and allied fields which is available in the US in the English language. Further inquiries should be directed to the sources listed. In addition, general information on translation programs in the US may be obtained from the Office of Science Information Service, National Science Foundation, Washington DC, USA and from the Office of Technical Services, US Department of Commerce, Washington DC, USA."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a list of abstracts by number and their corresponding issues and pagination."
"A name followed by \"and\" is that of the first author of a jointly written paper, \"with\" indicates that the name indexed is that of the second author."
"A comprehensive listing of the articles and departments included in 1959."
"A selection of the journals which are regularly scanned for content of interest to our readers is given here, together with the addresses of publishers or editorial offices and the abbreviations of titles as used in the Abstracts and References. Applications for copies of any journal should be made to the addresses given. The full title of each journal is given first and is followed by the address, the abbreviated title being shown within parentheses. In a few cases the nature of a journal is indicated, where neither the title nor the address shows it clearly."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"This paper presents a discussion of activities of the IRE as they are related to education. It considers the several aspects of the IRE contribution to education in terms of student membership, student branches, IRE representatives, the PROCEEDINGS, the STUDENT QUARTERLY, several committees, the Professional Group on Education, and the local Sections."
"The theory of the parametric amplifier has been reformulated to permit the prediction of noise temperature and pump power in terms of the physical parameters of the nonlinear element and circuit. The results of this analysis are supported by careful experiments at S-band using a gold-bonded germanium semiconductor diode. They can be summarized as follows. 1) Performance of a parametric amplifier using semiconductor diodes with respect to noise temperature and pump power can be accurately predicted, once the diode and circuit parameters have been measured. 2) It is shown that the ultimate limitation on noise temperature depends simply on the product of the diode cutoff frequency and the normalized capacitance swing. 3) The derived figure of merit for the diode can serve as a basis for optimum design of the semiconductor parameters."
"A parametric amplifier that supports a resonance at the idler frequency only is capable of unlimited gain when operated either as a straight-through amplifier or as a lower-sideband up-converter. In the latter case, the idler frequency becomes the output frequency. The analysis of the single-resonance parametric amplifier consists of determining the stability criteria and power gains associated with a nonlinear capacitance that is incorporated in a network producing a resonance at the idler frequency but not at the signal frequency. The admittance matrix of the network is first established; and then from this matrix the input admittances and the power-gain expressions for straight-through amplification and lower-sideband up-conversion are derived. The single-resonance parametric amplifier, as contrasted with one which is tuned at both the signal frequency and the idler frequency, is, in principle, easy to adjust because there is only one resonance. For this reason, the feasibility of continuously tunable parametric receivers becomes immediately evident."
"The basic components of a Persistor memory element are a superconducting inductor in parallel with a switch element which is normally superconducting, but which becomes resistive when the current exceeds a critical value. When a suitable current pulse is applied to a Persistor memory element, a persistent circulating current is stored. A second pulse in the same direction as the first makes no change, but a pulse in the opposite direction reverses the circulating current and produces a voltage across the element. By mutual inductance coupling to two or more driving circuits, these memory elements can be made to operate in matrices similar to those employed with ferromagnetic cores. Persistor memory elements utilizing lead inductors and thin tin or indium films have performed typical memory unit functions for pulses of 15-mμsec duration and a repetition rate of 15 mc. Performance at higher speeds is possible. The limiting speed is determined by the thickness of the thin film switch element and can be made as fast as is useful for the other parts of the associated circuits. The elements are well suited to compact printed circuit production, with densities of a million per cubic foot possible."
"Seven factors limiting the performance of photovoltaic solar energy converters are listed and explained. They can be classified into basic and technology determined limitations. Possibilities for improvement on technology determined limitations are investigated for the silicon solar cell. Such possibilities are: heavier p-layer doping; change of geometry, possibly by application of grid structures; improvement of the material constants; and utilization of drift fields for improved collection. Discussed are materials other than silicon in regard to their potential for better performance than that obtainable from the silicon solar cell; and finally, new methods of approach, such as the multilayer and the multiple transition solar cell. Both of these methods yield theoretically large improvements, but realization depends on further advances in compound semiconductor technology and in knowledge about localized centers in the forbidden gap. Limit conversion efficiencies of 38.2 per cent for a 3-layer cell and of 51 per cent for a 3-transition cell, compared to 23.6 per cent for a single p-n junction, single transition cell, are obtained. Also discussed are the possible merits of the application of the graded energy gap to photovoltaic energy converters, and potential improvement in collection efficiency is found for certain cases."
"With a new class of switching devices employing microwave tube elements, appropriate combinations of particular components can create a variety of devices that are capable of performing switching and logic at extremely high speeds (one operation per mμsec or less). Such speeds represent a large step forward in the computer art. A preliminary device described herein demonstrated the ability of a microwave signal to control a dc current. The goal of operating a computer with pulse trains dictated a choice of components that would provide large bandwidth with gain; therefore, an experimental traveling-wave interaction type tube was built which demonstrated the ability of one microwave signal to control another."
"This paper deals with the theory of skin effect in semiconductor materials including the effect of displacement currents, which are generally neglected in the skin-effect theory for metallic conductors. In the case of flat plates, formulas are derived for the field distribution, the impedance and the eddy-current power losses, considering symmetrical electric as well as magnetic fields. Impedance as a function of frequency is measured for germanium in the microwave cm-range. The measured values agree with the theoretical results. The equivalent depth of penetration is calculated and compared with the skin depth for metals. All theoretical results are represented in graphs for different values of the ratio γ, i.e., the displacement current divided by the conduction current. The formulas are extended to the case of complex permeability, corresponding to hysteresis."
"The parallel field excitation of piezoelectric plates, particularly of plates vibrating in thickness modes, and their resulting piezoelectric stress constants in general and of various quartz cuts are considered. Quartz AT-cut crystals excited by a parallel field are of practical interest for high precision frequency control and the data of the equivalent electric circuit of a 1000-kc AT quartz oscillator excited by a parallel field are given."
"The transient behavior of aperture antennas is analyzed. For an antenna which is illuminated by a field of uniform phase and either uniform or cosine tapered amplitude, it is shown that the steady-state main lobe is established within (τ/,sub>2+R/c) seconds after the aperture is energized. τ is the period of the carrier frequency, R is the distance from the center of the aperture to the point where the field is evaluated, and c is the velocity of light. The time required for the establishment of the steady-state pattern at all angles between 0° and 90° is (τ/2θ0+R/c) where 2θ0 radians is the beamwidth between first nulls of the steady-state pattern (θ0<l). An antenna may be useful, however, before (τ/2θ0+R/c) seconds, because the maxima of the transient sidelobes are not higher than the maxima of the steady-state sidelobes. The requirement that the steady-state pattern be established at all angles between 0° and 90° leads to a limitation on range discrimination ΔR and angular discrimination Δθ for a pulse radar ΔRΔθ=λ, where λ is the wavelength of the carrier frequency. For a scanning antenna employing linear phase variation over the aperture, it is shown that the main lobe, located at an angle θmax, is established within a time (τ/2+ R/c + a sin θmax/2c) measured from the instant at which one edge of the aperture is first energized. The quantity a is the dimension of the aperture in the plane in which the field is evaluated."
"The polarization properties of radar targets are studied as a parameter related to, but quite distinct from, echo area. It is found that targets are divided into several different classes. The polarization properties may be measured by rotating a linearly polarized radar antenna around the line of sight, and measuring the complex voltage presented at the receiving antenna terminals. It is shown that the polarization properties of any target so measured can be represented by a 3-parameter model (excluding echo area), and the parameters of such a model can be used as the basis for discriminating between targets of the same or different classes."
"A microwave analog of the low-frequency Meacham bridge oscillator, long known for its exceptional stability, is described. The incorporation of the resonant element of a feedback oscillator into an appropriate bridge circuit effectively multiplies the Q of the element and consequently the stability of the oscillator. The performance and design of an X-band oscillator consisting of a traveling-wave tube amplifier, a cavity, a microwave Wheatstone bridge, and a bolometer element are described, and experimental results are compared with theory. The application of the principle to ultrastable systems utilizing very high-Q molecular resonators and low-noise amplifiers is also discussed."
"The radio-frequency parameters and the quantummechanical parameters entering into the design of paramagnetic quantum-mechanical amplifiers are described and discussed. The physical and electrical limitations on such parameters as gain-bandwidth product, gain stability, and nonreciprocity are described analytically and with design curves. Two realizations of nonreciprocal amplifiers are described and discussed. In particular, operation of a nonreciprocal amplifier at 9 kmc is described. Explanations for the observed properties of previously reported amplifiers are given, and the steps necessary to achieve high gain-bandwidth product and nonreciprocity with paramagnetic amplifiers are described."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Listed is information on Russian technical literature in electronics and allied fields which is available in the US in the English language. Further inquiries should be directed to the sources listed. In addition, general information on translation programs in the US may be obtained from the Office of Science Information Service, National Science Foundation, Washington DC, USA and from the Office of Technical Services, US Department of Commerce, Washington DC, USA."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"The social sciences are in great need of a more precise understanding of how an idea is conveyed from one mind to another. The difficulty seems to stem from an inability to find the fundamental and independent parameters from which the behavior of the brain and the consequent human response can be constructed in a mathematical sense. This problem concerns the electronics scientist as well. He must provide the communication links for conveying information from individual to individual, but he has inadequate knowledge of the human terminals to which he must match his systems. It is suggested that certain strong similarities between the behavior of circuits and of man may provide analogs which would reveal characteristics of the mind that are fundamental and quantitative. A number of such analogs are proposed and discussed."
"A review of the activities of various governmental, industrial, and academic institutions is made in the field of panel display devices. These devices are thin sheets which can display luminescent information. Insofar as possible the present state of the art is indicated. The displays are grouped as: evacuated, solid, gas, liquid and mechanical. Among the evacuated types are listed the thin cathode ray tubes and the image intensifier. The solid-type displays employ the electroluminescent panel in conjunction with an xy matrix of electrodes. Recent progress in panels of the above type with memory are included as well as a brief discussion of solid-state image intensifiers. Descriptions of proposed gaseous displays as well as of liquid and mechanical displays are included. A brief discussion of switching circuits is included. Actual as well as possible applications of these devices are listed."
"A crossed film cryotron deposited on an insulated superconductor is described and analyzed. It has a time constant of less than one μsec and is approximately 100 times faster than the original crossed film cryotron [4]. The dc dissipation is less than five μw and the active area of each element is approximately 5×10-4 cm2. These cryotrons and all their interconnecting circuitry can be deposited at one and the same time in a few simple steps. A cryotron storage circuit and a shift register is described, based upon a principle unique to superconductors. The shift register shown is deposited in an area corresponding to 18,000 active elements per square foot. Calculations are presented to show that with this component density, a computer or memory containing more than one million elements can be operated in a one-cubic-foot container using a one-watt output liquid helium refrigerator."
"The fabrication and properties of GaAs tunnel diodes are described. The material preparation is discussed; devices are described which have been fabricated consistently with peak to valley current ratios > 15:1, with voltage swings in the range from 0.9 to 1.2, and with current densities from 2000 amp/cm2 to over 10,000 amp/cm2 (and with correspondingly low capacitances, e.g., capacitances as low as 0.2 μμf/ma and g/C figures of merit as high as 5×1010 sec-1). The temperature behavior of typical units is presented. Applications particularly well suited to GaAs units are mentioned."
"The reflected-beam kinescope is a short tube particularly suited for picture sizes of 21 inches or more. It retains the conventional gun and external deflection components and is axially symmetric. Although the effective deflection angle is nearly 180°, the deflection power required is equivalent to that used in conventional 90° kinescopes. The electron beam scans through an apertured phosphor screen and is reflected back to the screen by the faceplate. The screen attenuates the beam by a factor of 4, except in the case of a radial scan where a cutout in the center of the screen may be made to permit free passage of the beam. The results of a theoretical and experimental study of the tube are presented. They show the raster to be inherently barrel-distorted. However, the distortion may be corrected in several ways. The resolution is somewhat lower than in standard tubes, although it is considered to be adequate. High detail contrast is obtained."
"The contributions of Johnson noise and shot noise to the noise in a tunnel diode are analyzed according to a simple theoretical model. The current stream flowing across the junction in one direction is assumed to be uncorrelated with that flowing across the junction in the opposite direction, and both current streams are assumed to produce full shot noise. A simple parabolic band structure is also assumed. There is qualitative, but not quantitative, agreement between the predictions of this model and the experiment. On the basis of some simplifying assumptions (which are consistent with the experiment), the noise figure of a tunnel diode amplifier is calculated. A simple graphical method of determining the approximate noise figure of a diode from its current voltage characteristic is presented It is found that the noise figure has a broad minimum centered about a point slightly higher in bias than the bias value for maximum negative conductance."
"A parametric device has been proposed which is equivalent to a passive nonreciprocal phase shifter. A first-order analysis is made assuming the series resistance effect in the variable capacitance diode to be negligible and a dispersion theory for matching and bandwidth of the nonreciprocal element is developed. The nonreciprocal phase behavior of the device was exhibited experimentally over a narrow frequency band."
"Under the assumption of simultaneous amplitude and phase modulation of a carrier, a study is made of the relations that must hold between the envelope and the phase of a single-sideband wave. In particular, it is shown that absolute compatibility with standard AM receivers employing a linear envelope detector cannot possibly be achieved with the spectral economy of conventional single sideband. On the other hand, if one conveys the message function in the square of the envelope rather than in the envelope itself, it is shown that a phase function can be found for which the hybrid wave occupies a spectral width equal to that of a conventional single-sideband (SSB) system. Distortionless detection is achieved with a square-law envelope detector. The operations required to generate this square-law SSB signal are described in detail."
"The time constant of the exponential approach to the stable states is shown to be a fair approximation for the flipping time of the \"bridge\" magnetoresistive flip-flop. This time constant turns out to be at least of the order of milliseconds for the magnetoresistive materials known at present, which is too large. Similar time constants are used as an approximation for the resolving times of a general nonlinear network, in particular networks in which the nonlinear element is a magnetoresistor. It is shown that these time constants are the latent roots of a certain matrix whose elements can readily be calculated from the parameters of the network. The flipping time of the \"bridge\" magnetoresistive flip-flop is calculated as a function of the energy supplied by the incoming pulse. The calculation is made by the numerical solution of the nonlinear differential equation involved. The results show that for input pulses of conceivable amplitudes the linear time constant is a good measure of the flipping time."
"Noise affects the behavior of oscillators in at least two important ways. During sustained oscillation, noise creates undesired perturbations or modulation in both the amplitude and the phase of the wave. The amplitude perturbations produce a continuous spectrum which in typical situations is quite weak and broader than the bandwidth of the resonator. The phase perturbations disperse the nominal frequency into a continuous distribution which is of the same form but much stronger and narrower than for the amplitude perturbations. During the initiation of oscillation, noise constitutes the starting voltage and therefore affects the time required for the wave to reach some pre-established amplitude. The resulting jitter in the starting time of pulsed oscillators is objectionable because it degrades the signal-to-noise ratio in systems employing super-regenerative receivers or pulse-time modulation. The time and spectral distributions of noise effects in typical oscillators are derived and discussed in the following sections."
"For a general black box model of a resistive one terminal-pair nonlinear oscillator, it is shown that the noise output from noise bands around the oscillatory frequency is composed of an additive noise of the shape of the oscillator resonant circuit and a very small FM broadening of the oscillator line. A noise generator across the oscillator terminals will produce the same amount of additive noise in the load as if the nonlinearity were absent, but the upper and lower sidebands are fully correlated, not independent as in the linear case. The noise bandwidth of the additive noise can be determined by the passive elements and the change in oscillator output power with changing load conductance at the operating load conductance. When the load conductance is adjusted for maximum oscillator output power, the noise bandwidth is the same as if the value of load conductance gave maximum power from a linear circuit."
"The regenerative oscillator is postulated to be equivalent to an RLC circuit in which a negative resistance-RB, placed parallel with R, has a value which is a slowly varying function of the mean-square voltage across it. Expressions are derived for the departure from monochromaticity of the regenerative oscillator so represented, as well as for the intensity and bandwidth of the thermal noise generated in the oscillator by the resistance R."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Listed is information on Russian technical literature in electronics and allied fields which is available in the US in the English language. Further inquiries should be directed to the sources listed. In addition, general information on translation programs in the US may be obtained from the Office of Science Information Service, National Science Foundation, Washington DC, USA and from the Office of Technical Services, US Department of Commerce, Washington DC, USA."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"An important trend in modern electronics is toward decreased size and increased reliability of electronic systems. This paper discusses a new simple structure which performs the function of a twin-T network, i.e., a null output is produced at a single frequency. This new structure has the advantage of being very small, simple to fabricate, and easy to use in conjunction with transistorized circuits. The theory of operation of the device, experimental verification of the theory, and some circuits containing the device is also discussed. The structure has been found useful to create a high-Q tuned amplifier, an oscillator, and a threshold transducer. The physical simplicity of the structure should result in a high degree of reliability and uniformity of response. It should be noted that the structure can be fabricated from semiconductor materials and is thus suited to \"molecularized\" or \"integrated\" solid state systems."
"An experimental seven digit pulse code modulation (PCM) system has been built for the transmission of monochrome and color television signals over seven pairs of 22-gauge exchange area telephone cable, installed in the laboratory. A beam coding tube converts the signal to seven parallel digits of a binary Gray code at a 10 mc rate. All circuits except the coding tube deflection amplifier are transistorized. The coded digits are sent over the cable in parallel formn with alternate groups converted to complements of the coded signal, thus substantially removing the low frequency component. This makes it possible to use simple repeaters without special compensation for duty factor variation. A repeater group is used after every 3000 foot section of cable. One ten megabit repeater, consisting of an amplifier and blocking oscillator, is required for each digit. All seven digit repeaters are retimed with a common timing wave. At the decoding terminal, transmitted complements are restored to Gray code before translation to natural binary. A binary weighted resistance network decoder converts the signals to a quantized reproduction of the video signal. Good quality composite color and monochrome pictures are obtained with six digits. Seven digits are believed to be necessary for broadcast quality with some margins. Waveform photographs illustrate the various functions, and photographs of decoded pictures are shown."
"This paper, consisting of three parts, describes the thin-film cryotron. This device, constructed by vacuum deposition of layers of lead, tin and silicon monoxide, is considerably smaller and faster than its wire-wound predecessor. Part I describes the characteristics of evaporated superconductive films as they apply to cryotrons. Their current-carrying capacity has been found to be proportional to width and proportional to thickness when the film is thinner than twice the penetration depth. Thermal effects caused by poor heat transfer to the bath distort the data, and the use of quartz substrates and low duty cycle pulse measurements help to reduce this distortion. The function of a superconductive reflector or ground plane under a film is discussed. The current-carry ing capacity of such a film is increased because of effective cancella tion of the normal component of magnetic field."
"Part II describes the characteristics of the thin-film cryotron. The superconducting to normal transition in a tin gate 0.125 inch wide and 3 × 10-5 cm thick is controlled by current in a single lead control, 0.006 inch wide, which crosses the gate. Silicon monoxide is used for insulation. The switching time of a cryotron circuit is dependent upon the inductance and resistance of the circuit. Therefore, it is important to reduce the inductance by using a superconductive ground plane and by reducing the length of all interconnecting leads. Nonlocking flip-flops have been constructed, and a ring of five flip-flops have operated with a delay per stage of ½ μsec."
"Part III is a circuit analysis of cryotron ring oscillators. Ring oscillators have been constructed so that the dynamic behavior of film cryotrons in circuits could be studied. The analysis is concerned with the frequency-L/R time constant and circuit resistance-gate resistance relationships so that the results of measurements on oscillators can be properly interpreted. Two analyses, based on different ideal characteristics, are made. The first treats each stage as a linear amplifier, and the second treats each stage as a switching circuit. Although the two analyses start with rather different assumed ideal characteristics, the results agree in many respects."
"A practical one-port parametric amplifier is analyzed to determine the conditions under which minimum effective noise temperature and maximum gain-bandwidth product can be obtained. The analysis considers the effects of resistive loss and stray parasitic reactance in the junction-diode that provides the essential nonlinear reactance. It is shown that the conditions necessary for minimum noise temperature are compatible with those necessary for maximum gain-bandwidth product only if the diode has a high self-resonant frequency (the frequency at which the average diode capacitance resonates with the diode lead inductance). It is also shown that minimum noise temperature is always achieved when the diode loss alone is used as the idler circuit loading (regardless of the temperature of any additional idler loading), that there is a characteristic figure of merit for the diode, and that there is an optimum pump frequency. Based on the equations derived, universal curves have been drawn that enable the design of an optimum amplifier when the signal frequency and diode characteristics are specified. In conclusion, it is shown that if junction-diode parametric amplifiers operated at room temperature are to seriously challenge the low-noise performance of the maser at microwave frequencies, a substantial improvement in the diode figure of merit is required."
"A simple electrical stroboscope having a rise time of 6 × 10-11 seconds and a 6-db bandwidth of 5.5 kmc is described. Oscillograms showing 160-mc square waves and 640 million pulses per second are shown. These waveforms display rise times as fast as 2 × 10-10 seconds. Instrumentation includes a strobe-pulse generator, a coaxial gate using a gallium-arsenide point-contact crystal, suitable wide-band coaxial attenuators, a low-pass integrating filter and a low-frequency oscilloscope."
"It is shown that the parametric amplifier and frequency converter can be described by four equations whose coefficients form a matrix that is symmetrical. Because of this symmetry, the calculations for gain, bandwidth, and noise figure yield simple and manageable results. By regarding the matrix as a nodal admittance array, an equivalent conductance circuit is constructed. The derived expressions show that, for low noise figure, the idlefrequency should be much higher than the signal-frequency. This is also the requirement for wide bandwidth. Numerical examples of amplifier and converter design are given."
"Growing interest in the theoretical as well as applied aspects of superconductivity has focused considerable attention upon the static London equations. These macroscopic relationships describe the spatial distribution of magnetic fields and currents in superconductors. In this paper a novel analog method of obtaining solutions in complicated geometries is discussed. The method makes use of the similarity in form of the static London equations and the dynamic skin-effect equations of normal conduction under exponentially-growing steady-state conditions. Conveniently scaled copper models of superconducting geometries of interest can be constructed and excited from a growing-exponential function generator. Field distributions measured in the space around the normal conductors of the model correspond with the desired distributions in the analogous superconductor geometry. Fields within conductors themselves cannot be determined directly by this method, but the surface fields are generally most important. The method is particularly useful in studying thin films which are appreciably penetrated by magnetic fields. The experimental setup and the measurement technique are discussed. Illustrative results from a copper model of a long rectangular superconducting strip, 1830 penetration depths wide and 3.81 penetration depths thick are presented."
"This paper presents an analysis of error probabilities for multiplexed binary telegraph signals that are used to frequencymodulate an RF carrier that is subsequently corrupted by fading and noise. Frequency-shift keying, amplitude keying, and phase-shift keying are considered. It is shown that most telegraph errors occur when the carrier fades below threshold, and the principal results of the study therefore concern the effects of the FM threshold on error rate. Various methods of diversity reception are considered. For a maximal-ratio baseband combiner and certain types of telegraph receiver, a method is given for extending the results obtained for a single receiver to nth-order diversity. This makes it possible to use experimental data to describe either the threshold or the fading of the carrier. Study of threshold models indicates a serious conflict between the requirements of telephone channels and those of telegraph channels. Furthermore, good telegraph performance demands great care in the design of diversity combiners to work below threshold. The analysis pertains most directly to troposcatter systems, but the general conclusions regarding the effect of FM threshold should be relevant also for fading transmission paths such as those met in line-of-sight and telemetry."
"Theoretical and experimental results are presented concerning the ineffectiveness for forward scattering of radar absorbing coatings applied to highly conducting objects which are large with respect to the wavelength of the incident energy. It is shown that such coatings can only increase the energy in the forward lobe of the scattering pattern. A rather simple accurate theoretical estimate is obtained of the width of this lobe for a sphere and verified experimentally. By using absorbing coatings, experimental verification is obtained of theoretical predictions of the energy focussing and reflecting effects at the rear of thin prolate spheroids. Finally a section is devoted to the experimental procedures and equipment used to obtain the forward scattering data."
"Theoretical and experimental electromagnetic scattering results are presented concerning the effects of applying thin coatings to perfectly conducting scatterers. Most of the paper is concerned explicitly with spheres and cones. It is shown that thin coatings can have little effect on the Rayleigh scattering cross sections. It is also pointed out how the effect of conductivity is enhanced at low frequencies and how, as a consequence, a thin slightly lossy spherical shell scatters like a perfectly conducting sphere in the Rayleigh region."
"Presents a biographical entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides an overview of selected technical articles and features presented in current issues of the various IRE Transactions."
"The issues of IRE Transactions listed herein have recently been published, and are now available from the Institute of Radio Engineers, Inc. The contents of each issue and, where available, abstracts of technical papers are given."
"Listed is information on Russian technical literature in electronics and allied fields which is available in the US in the English language. Further inquiries should be directed to the sources listed. In addition, general information on translation programs in the US may be obtained from the Office of Science Information Service, National Science Foundation, Washington DC, USA and from the Office of Technical Services, US Department of Commerce, Washington DC, USA."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This reproduction of an historic 1946 paper discusses the general problem of automatic control of aircraft flight on radiodefined tracks as an aid to point-to-point navigation, traffic control, and final approach and landing. Practical systems which have been extensively tested are described, and their operation is explained on both operational and theoretical grounds. A brief outline is given of the various radio navigational facilities which are available to define suitable tracks for automatic aircraft guidance. Effects of cross winds are analyzed, and a complete discussion of damping problems is given. The improvements in accuracy, reliability, and safety in flight which accrue through the use of automatic instead of manual control are described, and supported by results of operational tests. The paper recommends widespread adoption of automatic radio flight control systems as an indispensable aid to all-weather operation of aircraft."
"The basic need for air traffic control for aircraft and missiles results from the inability of any pilot or missile control agency to digest and handle information concerning many aircraft, even if presented perfectly, since judgment must be centrally controlled. Only in wholly controlled space is separation safely handled, a system necessity. Positive Occupancy systems define occupied space most safely and economically. Area control has uniform application for universal use. The interlocking function to maintain separation can be handled most efficiently and safely by a computer, while trained controllers can expedite most economically with such automatic protection. The flight plan used for control can consist of much more limited data than those for an entire trip, a saving over methods of transmitting full plans with updating. The fundamental basis of presentation of ATC information to the pilot can be simplified by either automatic flag presentations or, for voice, equivalent short phrases. Clear distinction is necessary between the control data and monitoring data, and the two methods should be used as a cross check. Uncontrolled space, with speed restriction, is required for certain users and restricted space is required for others in certain areas. Methods of handling space on an area basis utilize all space with maximum freedom. A universal coordinate system for control has many advantages and can be easily introduced. Aircraft and missile identity numbers can contain useful additional information. Frequency, time, and space assignments are necessary considerations for control communications."
"A model is developed relating navigational instrument errors to the actual cross-track error of an aircraft. At a set of equispaced points, fixes on precisely known landmarks are obtained whose accuracy is assumed independent of the length of the flight. An optimum procedure is developed for utilizing these fixes to calibrate the compass on board the aircraft. Finally, the accuracy of arriving at a predetermined destination after the last checkpoint is evaluated. Because of the complexity of the problem, numerical calculations using the IBM 650 were used. Two interesting conclusions were reached: 1) for a fixed spacing between fixes the accuracy of arriving at the destination is improved as the length of the flight (and therefore the number of fixes taken) is increased, and 2) for a fixed length of flight, the accuracy of arriving at the destination is almost independent of the number of fixes."
"The 12 abstracts presented are from papers published in the January, 1960, issue of The Journal of the Institute of Navigation (London)."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"A flush-mounted airport runway antenna has been designed, built, and tested which will allow glide-path signals for instrument landings to be radiated directly from the touchdown point on the runway. Empirical and simplified analytical design procedures are discussed together with a comparison of desirable and measured antenna characteristics. Sufficient low-elevation angle directivity has been obtained from a prototype antenna to provide a path which extends well beyond 5 miles, the approximate distance at which the glide is intercepted in practice."
"Several cooperative radio systems for avoiding aircraft collisions are considered from the standpoints of technical requirements, feasibility, and cost. The system with the broadest potential application is selected. In basic form, the selected system utilizes the upper UHF region to communicate altitude and heading information, and vertical maneuvers are defined by the altitude information. In expanded form this system determines relative bearing and heading, to predict collision hazard in both the vertical and horizontal planes. Potentially, a reduction in unintentional collisions of 100: 1 can be achieved with the selected approach. The applicability of this system to collision avoidance problems of military, commercial, and private aircraft, and to related problems of navigation and air traffic control is outlined."
"Transmission of a group of closely spaced pulses increases the duty cycle and consequently the range of the Loran-C (formerly called Cytac) 100-kc pulsed hyperbolic radio navigation system while retaining the advantages of time sharing. Phase coding by carrier phase reversal, coupled with synchronous detection, facilitates automatic master and slave identification and search, and prevents multihop skywave interference. Instrumentation for simple and complex pulse patterns is considered. The phase codes used are characterized by lack of spurious responses associated with other bipolar codes."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The capacity of the Air Traffic Control Radar Beacon System can be evaluated by extensive high-density flight testing, simulation, or mathematical synthesis. Actual flight testing, although desirable, is costly and inflexible. Simulation techniques would be an effective approach to analyzing the system problems, were it not for the cost of the simulator required for this type of work and the delay incurred waiting for the construction and test of the simulator. Use of a mathematical model makes numerous variations of system parameters and equipments feasible at low cost while providing sufficient environmental flexibility. A previous paper described the development and application of such a model for evaluation of traffic-handling capacity in the dense environment of the New York area. Applications of the model and conclusions and recommendations based on the results of its use are presented in this paper."
"Improvements in gyro design within the last decade, particularly various floated gyro developments, make necessary a better understanding of the phenomenon of gyro drift rate. With this knowledge, it should be possible to improve gyro designs still further and to better estimate the error contribution of the gyro to complex vehicle control, guidance and instrument systems."
"A novel method is described by which complex electronic signals are generated, dynamically varied, mixed, and presented on a standard video (raster-scan) display, without the use of vidicon or similar camera devices. The method is applied to the generation of a \"contact-analog\" display that provides a stylized representation of the real world to the pilot of an aircraft. This integrated display, which varies continuously as the speed, altitude, or attitude of the aircraft changes, also contains a \"flight-path\" representation that enables the pilot to maintain a prescribed path."
"Although it is quite well known that bearing errors occurring with multipath propagation can be reduced by using widebase antenna arrays, only systems operating with phase or frequency modulation have come into practical use. A method of progressively scanning a circular antenna array is described. This scanning which produces a frequency modulation in which the frequency deviation is a function of the bearing information, is accomplished by a rotating capacitive switch, and no vacuum tubes or crystal diodes are employed. Moreover, a special light indicator replaces the usual cathode-ray tube. Designed primarily for the very-and ultra-high frequencies, the equipment is quite simple and of high reliability."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This is a terminal guidance technique for satellite rendezvous utilizing a constant thrust rocket motor, a computer, and attitude control. For any given thrust level, this technique can reduce the relative range to any desired value in a minimum of time for an interceptor on a collision course. In this paper, a terminal guidance law is formulated and mechanized. The generalized range performance trajectories and system errors are presented."
"In this paper the author has reviewed the state of art in estimating the radio frequency noise from the environment of a hypersonic vehicle and has pointed out areas requiring considerable effort. It can be safely said that the radiation due to the incoherent processes is less than that due to a corresponding black body. The possible mechanisms for excitation of and radiation by plasma oscillations need further investigation before anything conclusive can be stated regarding their role in the emission of RF noise. A conjecture has also been made about mechanisms for coherent radiation."
"The theoretical rms error in measuring time delay (range) and Doppler frequency (relative velocity) are determined for representative radar waveforms, including rectangular-, trapezoidal-, triangular-, and Gaussian-shaped pulses as well as the linear FM pulse compression waveform. The so-called \"uncertainty\" relationship of radar is interpreted in terms of measurement errors and the difference between the radar and the quantum mechanical uncertainty principles is discussed. Mention is also made of the theoretical error involved in measuring the angle of arrival with an antenna aperture."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Subject index for Volume ANE-7 1960 of the IRE Transactions on Aeronautical and Navigational Electronics."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Signal-flow graphs have long been exploited in feedback-control analysis, and can greatly aid in kinetic studies of nuclear reactors and nuclear reactor systems. The signal-flow graph is a means for conveniently and compactly displaying a set of linear differential equations. Such a flow graph can be easily and quickly formulated from a set of equations, or, with experience, directly by inspection from the physical system. A powerful method developed by S. J. Mason permits rapid determination of the transfer function between any two points in the system. The above techniques are illustrated for an elementary nuclear reactor. The usual transfer function is quickly obtained, as is also the transfer function for a reactor operating in a sub-or supercritical condition. Other methods of reactor control suggested by the analysis are discussed."
"An approach to the application of nuclear rocket systems is to consider the integration of such systems into the national space vehicle program. Within the framework of the general configuration and the various missions for which these space vehicles are planned the potential performance which nuclear rockets may provide is illustrated. Although a wide range of potential applications is apparent within the limits of consideration, certain practical and technical matterstend to reduce the scope of logical and reasonable choice for initial use. Many of the practical problems involved in nuclear rocket development are reviewed to provide an appreciation for the effort required."
"Design problems peculiar to fusion research are discussed. Particular emphasis is placed on the development of large energy storage systems, and transfer and utilization of this energy. In addition, design criteria for data reduction systems, and other problems related to our fusion research program are discussed."
"A system is described for pulse testing of transistors in the 10-10 to 10-9 sec range. Based on these measurements, a nanosecond, current switching, multiple coincidence system has been constructed. It is dc coupled and has input pulse limiters and clipping stubs. A ten-nonosecond scaler-discririnator stage is discussed which also employs current switching techniques. One output is scaled for pulse counting; another unscaled output is used to drive coincidence circuitry."
"It is assumed that the mission for a nuclear rocket upper-stage vehicle is the transfer from a 300-mile earth orbit to a corotational earth orbit. An engine of the solid fuel, heat exchanger type is assumed and briefly described. The engine duty cycle requirements are deduced from the incremental velocity requirements of the mission. Controls attention is fixed on the thrust programmer without discussion of the equally important sequence control aspects. A constant specific impulse, variable thrust controls approach is taken. Basic principles underlying this approach are discussed. Fineness of control and restart capability are pointed out as inherent features of the engine. These augment the well-known performance advantages due to the high specific impulse of nuclear rocket engines."
"An experimental study of background pulse pileup in neutron counting channels has been performed. Noutron- and gamma-produced pulses from two BF3-filled counters and one boron-lined counter were photographed for several input circuit time constants. Several measurements were made for each of ten counting channels: five commercially available circuits, three Bettis reactor source range channels, and two experimental systems. Integral bias curves taken with simulated neutron and gamma pulses were the major comparison criterion. Wide differences in performance were found, even among very similar circuits. The results indicate that small pulse pile-up in the test circuitry may greatly influence data taken with counters operating in high-background gamma fluxes. Recommendations are made for the design of circuitry with reduced pile-up."
"In the field of nuclear instrumentation, there is need for an economical instrument capable of storing data compactly in digital form. This paper delcribes a magnetic tape recorder which can store binary numbers from one to a maximum of eleven digits in parallel on a continuously rotating loop of tape. The tape is operated at a constant speed of 30 inches per second and a packing density of 667 bits/inch/track and can be used in loops of two to 1000 feet. For these operating conditions, the average storage access time for random inputs is 25 μsec. Stored data are read back from the tape into a core-memory matrix at a 20-kc rate. The operational reliability for the recording and reading processes has been found to vary between 4 and 14 parts/ million. Higher reliability may be obtained by using the tape at lower packing densities."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The scintillation process in organi: crystals and solutions is described, and a mechanism is proposed to account for the origin of the fast and slow scintillation components. The intermolecular energy migration and transfer processes in pure and mixed crystals and in plastic and liquid solutions are discussed quantitatively, and the influence of temperature and thickness on the scintillation and fluorescence properties is considered. Radiative processes are shown to be important in crystals and in solid solutions."
"Calculations of the energy expended by a charged particle in producing optical excitation of molecules of the scintillator indicate the possibility that most of the energy emitted as light during a scintillation may stem, either directly or via intermolecular transfer, from molecules excited in this way. Observations of the slowly-decaying components of the emission suggest, however, that these components arise from molecules left in excited states as a result of the process of ion recombination."
"A special demountable cathode-ray tube has been designed to produce electron-beam excitation of organic scintillator solutions. Solutions are irradiated through an electron-permeable window. The beam is swept across the window in 0.4 × 10-9 seconds. A 1P28 photomultiplier and traveling-wave oscilloscope are used in recording. About 25,000 mev of excitation energy is delivered per pulse and pulse oscillograms are free of statistical variations. System response time is due almost wholly to photomultiplier transit-time dispersion. A pure Gaussian form is assumed for the response function of the system in analyzing pulse contours. The time resolution of the system is adequate to permit observation of the dependence of pulse rise times on concentration in solutions of p-terphenyl in toluene and anthracene in benzene. The results are in good agreement with the energy-transfer theory proposed by Kallmann and Furst."
"Experimental studies of the response of thallium-activated alkali iodides to various charged particles indicate decreasing scintillation efficiency with increasing particle mass and a non-linearity in pulse height vs energy for heavier particles. The scintillation efficiency to electrons, however, is found to be anomalously low, less than that to protons and deuterons. This paper represents an effort to synthesize the results of various experiments and to provide a model for understanding the observed behavior. The model adopted treats the formation of energy carriers and the transport of energy by the diffusion of these carriers from the path of the incoming particle to the activator sites. Results of calculations based on this model are found to be generally consistent with experiment."
"Thallium activated cesium iodide is discussed as a gamma-ray spectrometer which should have advantages over thallium activated sodium iodide at high gamma-ray energies. Data are presented which were obtained with a five-inch diameter by three and one half-inch high right cylinder of thallium activated cesium iodide viewed with a three-inch diameter photomultiplier. These data include linearity of response from 80 kev to 7.2 mev, resolution as a function of gamma-ray energy, and photofractions as a function of gamma-ray energy for collimated radiation."
"The synthesis of cerium activated scintillating glasses is being continued, and two new types have been developed. One of these, a magnesium aluminum borate, is similar to the alkali borate glasses reported previously and was made in an effort to provide a scintillating glass with the highest possible boron content in which a reasonable pulse height could be retained. Its pulse height with gamma excitation is 5.0 per cent of a Nal(Tl) crystal. The second glass developed is a lithium magnesium aluminum silicate. This glass has a pulse height 14.0 per cent of the Nal(Tl) crystal and is the most efficient material prepared in this program. Preliminary studies indicate that energy transfer between the base glass and the activator does occur, and that the efficiency of glass scintillators is not limited by the absence of energy transfer. mission."
"Observations of scintillation pulse heights have been made at pressures up to 75 atmospheres in xenon and argon, and in mixtures of nitrogen and xenon, nitrogen and argon, and neon and xenon. Diphenyl stilbene was used as a wavelength shifter. The most salient feature is that in all cases pulse height is approximately independent of pressure at pressures over a few atmospheres. The nitrogen-xenon and neon-xenon mixtures have been used as neutron detectors via the N14 (n,p), N14 (n,α) and Ne20 (n,α) reactions. The resolutions achieved, particularly in nitrogen-xenon mixtures (pulse height sometimes down to 1/40 of pure xenon) allow a good estimate to be made of the number of photons detected per unit energy loss in the scintillator."
"A plastic scintillator has been developed which shows a decay time dependent upon energy loss per unit distance, and hence is suitable for use with pulse shape discrimination methods. This scintillator was employed in conjunction with an improved discrimination system and the data were analyzed on a two-dimensional analyzer which provided a matrix of 72 × 64 channels. At a bias level where 99 per cent of the electron scintillations were eliminated, it was possible to obtain almost 100 per cent counting efficiency for recoil protons of 2 mev, and the scintillator was useful for protons down to 0.5 mev. The influence of various monomers, polymerization conditions, scintillating solutes, and secondary solvents was investigated, and a preliminary survey of the effects of these variables on pulse shape discrimination is presented."
"This paper reviews recent work at E.M.I. on photomultiplier tubes for tritium counting and for other specialised purposes, including short resolving time applications. Data on spread of parameters for production tubes of various types are also given. Details of health physics instruments, based on scintillation techniques, briefly outlined and a new tube designed for these, is described. Work on image intensifiers is also in progress."
"A many-phased development program is being carried on at Lancaster to provide special and improved multiplier phototubes for a variety of applications. Special emphasis has been given to improving and testing multiplier phototubes for pulse-height resolution. Tubes of different sizes have been ruggedized to permit scintillation counting in unusual operating conditions, such as during rocket flight. New electron-optical arrangements in multiplier phototube structures have resulted in less transit-time dispersion. Very wide spectral response has been obtained by use of the multialkali photocathode in a fused silica envelope. Plans for work in the next year include further development of very-high-speed multiplier phototubes capable of pulse rise times in the 10-10-second range, and further expansion of the RCA line to include tubes of other sizes, tubes with lower dark current, and tubes with extended ultraviolet response."
"The investigation of photocathode uniformity using the flying spot scanner technique is enhanced by the addition of a single-line-selector oscilloscope. This instrument permits a detailed study of any portion of the photocathode surface. The results obtained are of assistance in evaluating cathode uniformity per se as well as the efficiency of electron collection. Transit time spread measurements are determined by using a coincident method of detection employing output signals of opposite polarity. Measurements of transit-time spread are made by comparison with a variable light path used as a time delay."
"The structures and characteristics of the new line of photomuliptliers made by CBS Laboratories will be described. Some recent results on the investigation of pulse-height shift are also presented. The development of photomultiplier tubes for the detection of low-level radioactivity is discussed. This involves using tube materials with a minimum of radioactive contamination for such applications as whole-body counting. For low-energy nuclear radiation detection (e.g., detection of tritium) a tube has been developed which eliminates thermionic emission from the unused portions of the cathode which have been deposited on the sidewalls of the tube."
"A new photomultiplier has been designed which, up to temperatures of 150°C, is suitable for scintillation counting of the natural radioactivity of sediments traversed by an oil well. It uses a special head-on photocathode which is a compromise of stability, sensitivity and noise. The tube envelope is made of a succession of parallel Kovar and glass rings fused together. Venetian-blind dynodes of the Lallemand type are welded to the inner side of the Kovar rings and bleeder resistors to the outer side. This structure combines excellent mechanical properties (ruggedness, freedom from microphonics) with the very high electrical insulation needed, even at elevated temperatures. Taking advantage of the great versatility of the multiplier structure, several other types of tubes were built with conventional photocathodes (S-11 and S-17) and 14 and 18 stages. They are intended for applications requiring good performance associated with ruggedness."
"This paper describes a series of phototubes which have large dynamic range and are capable of high current output. The tubes, in conjunction with a solid type scintillator, have become largely standard for measurement of high intensity, short duration, gamma radiation. Electrical and optical characteristics are given and discussed. Included also is a brief, up-to-date history of the development."
"A study has been undertaken to determine the nature of the processes that contribute to dark current in photomultipliers. Extensive measurements have been made on a number of production-type photomultipliers and on a series of experimental tubes that were designed to minimize leakage and regeneration. Variations in the dark current pulse-height distribution and counting rate with applied voltage, cathode temperature, and residual gas pressure were measured. The experimental method and preliminary results will be discussed."
"This paper reports a study of the response of commercial end-window photomultipliers to light of various wavelengths, in the 4000 to 7000 A interval, as a function of temperature. All tubes studied were of nominal 2-inch diameter, and included various standard tubes made by DuMont and RCA, low-temperature modifications of standard tubes, and the recently-developed multialkali-photocathode tubes. Most of the experiments were performed with the tube operating as a multiplier; in a series of auxiliary experiments, the dynode string was shorted to the anode so that the effect of cooling the cathode could be studied separately. In a typical tube the response to blue light increases somewhat with decreasing temperature, whereas the response to red light decreases rapidly; these effects are associated with changes in the photocathode spectral sensitivity. At low temperatures (~-100°C or below) the response falls sharply for all wavelengths, an effect attributed to the increased resistivity of the semiconducting photocathode. This effect is not observed in tubes whose photocathode is covered with a semitransparent metallic backing. The temperature dependence of spectral sensitivity in multialkali-photocathodes (RCA C-7261) is significantly different from that of a Cs-Sb photocathode."
"A digital analyzer which records data on a 1-inch magnetic tape has been constructed and used for several experiments. Recording is at slow speed, the analysis being at 100 inches per second. Recorded data are fed into a ferrite core memory, added up, and finally punched out on to paper tape or cards for processing by a computer. Three typical experiments are described which involve pulse-height analysis of scintillation-counter data and neutron time of flight information. These are the measurement of fission neutrons from U235, the spectra of neutron capture gamma rays from platinum and the investigation of pulse shape discrimination between neutrons and gamma rays for a plastic scintillator. Typical three-dimensional models of the data are shown."
"The requirements for multiple-coincidence counting systems with 10-8 to 10-9. sec time resolution can be met economically with presently available high-frequency transistors. The design of solid-state coincidence circuits, amplitude discriminators, and decade scalers is considered and their operation discussed. Several systems have been designed utilizing up to 180 channels from scintillation detectors."
"The spectrometer comprises a single-channel scanning pulse-height analyzer, high-voltage supply, photo. multiplier tube and sodium iodide crystals. The circuits are transistorized and driven from rechargeable batteries. The analyzer contains a linear amplifier, window discriminator, count rate circuit and miniature recorder. The recorder and window discriminator are driven synchronously to display a spectrum in twelve minutes. The circuits, application and performance are discussed."
"It is well known that the pulse height distribution from a scintillation spectrometer may differ considerably from the spectrum of the incident radiation because the radiation may interact in several different ways with the crystal. Statistical variations in the pulses produce an additional distortion. These facts greatly complicate the quantitative analysis of continuous spectra or discrete spectra with more than a few different energies. Although it is not possible to calculate the exact \"unscrambled spectrum,\" it is possible to obtain a \"best estimate\" of the incident spectrum and to assign meaningful errors to the result. A clarifying point of view based on Fourier techniques is introduced. Methods for numerical calculation are then described."
"An IBM-650 computer code for the detailed unfolding of γ-ray spectra obtained from Nal scintillation counters has been developed. The procedure is set up to remove analyzer scale dependence and to remove energy dependences to a great extent. Computer time is about one minute per γ ray."
"The advantages of imaging the tracks of high-energy particles in scintillation counters have been noted by nuclear physicists for some years. Recent developments in scintillator techniques and improvements in the image intensifiers required have resulted in usable systems. The basis for the design of these systems, and their specific advantages to high-energy nuclear physics will be discussed. Several experimental proposals will be described quantitatively to illustrate the advantages and limitations of the technique. Accomplishments of various groups working in this field will be summarized."
"In its application to high-energy physics the luminescent chamber image intensifier system holds forth the promise of combining the advantage of visual measuring techniques with the advantage of the high time resolution of electronic counters. To realize this potential it is necessary that a system satisfy three basic requirements: 1) it should be a competent image-producing device capable of yielding pictures of minimum ionizing particle tracks with small distortion and with sufficient spatial resolution to permit adequate measurements to be made; 2) it should be a gated system with a time resolution of about one microsecond or less; and 3) it should utilize luminescent chambers large enough to allow useful experiments to be done, which demands high efficiency of the image preserving optical coupling between chamber and intensifier. This paper will describe the extent to which presently existing systems meet these requirements and indicate the improvements likely to be forthcoming from developmental efforts now in progress."
"The construction and properties of some magnetically focused Image intensifiers incorporating potassium chloride films as transmitted secondary electron multiplying dynodes is described. Tubes have been prepored with five dynodes which give a total electron multiplication of the order of 3000. Single electrons leaving the cathode of these tubes give rise to scintillations at the output phosphor with diameters of about 40 microns, which are bright enough to be photographed."
"An image intensifier utilizing transmission secondary electron emission has been described elsewhere. Performance data on recent 4-stage tubes having 1 inch useful diameter is given. At low light levels, viewing with these tubes is photoelectron-noise-limited. These tubes resolve a minimum of 12 line pairs/mm or a total of 300 line pairs across a diameter. Photon gains as high as 20,000 have been measured. Application of this intensifier to nuclear track photography is described."
"The electron image converter is now a proven device for amplifying a light image containing only a few photons per resolved picture element. Two-and three-stage electrostatically-focused cascaded image converters were made specifically for the purpose of intensifying the tracks of nuclear particles passing through a scintillation chamber. Gains as high as 50 per stage were obtained with an input equivalent to screen background as low as 105 photons per square cm per second (slightly more than 104 photoelectrons per square cm per second). At reduced voltage and gain, backgrounds were equivalent to about 100 electrons per square cm per second (the level of the thermionic emission). Scintillations of individual electrons were recognized. With a fast (P15) phosphor for the first screen, the microsecond Image storage accompanied by microsecond pulsing of the applied voltage across the second stage made possible complete elimination of tube background in photographs of nuclear tracks."
"The channeled electron multiplier in the form suitable for scintillation track imaging is described briefly. The present state of its development is outlined together with current performance data on gain, background, resolution, etc. The course of future developments and performance capabilities are discussed."
"A luminescent chamber system consisting of a four-inch sodium iodide crystal and four image tubes has been studied using plons of 2 Bev/c momentum. Gating times of 3 to 10 microseconds have been used in particle fluxes of up to 104 per pulse through the scintillator. The potentialities and problems of such a system are discussed and illustrated with stereoscopic photographs of pion interactions."
"Several methods for coupling a fiber scintillation chamber to an image intensifying tube will be considered. A high-speed lens has been designed to image the ends of a curved fiber bundle on the curved cathode of an image intensifying tube. The lens covers a five-inch field at one-to-one magnification, and at a speed of f/1.5. The details of this lens design and its expected performance will be discussed. The results of a series of experiments on plastic scintillating fibers have been used to determine that the internal reflectivity is 0.993 and absorption constant is 0.015 cm-1 in the fiber. The data have then been used to compute the optical properties of fibers appropriate to a scintillation chamber system. Certain other optical properties of the components were estimated so that three possible optical coupling schemes could be compared in detail. They are; 1) the lens alone, 2) a glass fiber bundle alone, and 3) a combination of the lens and a glass fiber bundle. The lens alone is about half as efficient as either of the other two methods. The numerical aperture and probable transmission properties of each system will be outlined."
"The known and conjectured particle populations in space are reviewed. The role of scintillation counters in obtaining the present knowledge and their possible use in extending this knowledge are discussed. The detectors in Satellite 1958 Epsilon (Explorer IV) and an auroral rocket instrumentation are described in detail."
"Large scintillation detectors have been employed in several areas of cosmic ray investigation at M.I.T., including air shower studies, μ-meson polarization measurements, μ-meson intensity monitoring, and a search for cosmic γ rays. In all cases the special advantages of the scintillation technique have been an essential part of the experimental concepts. The general principles of the design of large detectors are discussed. Descriptions are given of the construction and performances of several detectors with sensitive areas as large as 3.6 m2."
"A space scintillator detector has been designed and tested which meets the following requirements: 1) detection and separation of protons with energy greater than 1.5 mev and electrons with energy greater than 50 kev; 2) power consumption of less than 350 milliwats; and 3) weight less than 5 pounds. The basic detector consists of a stilbene scintillator on an RCA 6199 photomultiplier (or the C7151C ruggedized model). The electron-proton separation is accomplished through a circuit which makes use of the different light decay times caused by electrons and protons in the scintillator. The entire package including the amplifiers, scalers, and high voltage supply occupies a space 5 inches in diameter by 10 inches long. The unit has been tested for thermal stability and vibrational shock. A second detector, not restricted to the above power and weight requirements, is being developed to obtain pulse height information as well."
"The \"phoswitch\" technique may be used to construct a gamma-ray spectrometer that will not respond to charged particles. The theory and design of such a device is discussed and some preliminary data on its performance are presented."
"Shallow diffused silicon p-n junction detectors have been used as room-temperature particle spectrometers for protons, alpha particles, heavy ions, and fission fragments. By the use of high base resistivity devices operated at high reverse biases (> 200 volts), the width of the sensitive volume has been extended beyond 0.5 mm, permitting linear response to protons up to 9 mev. Improved diffusion techniques have resulted in more shallow diffusion depths so that the \"window effect\" is reduced, extending the low energy response to below 200 kev for alpha particles. Use of low-noise amplifiers has permitted observation of half-widths of the pulse height-distribution equivalent to 18 kev."
"Silicon p-n junction particle detectors have been fabricated by diffusing phosphorus to various depths between 0.1 and 2.0 μ into high resistivity p-type silicon. Various base material resistivities have been employed, ranging from 100 Ω cms to 13,000 Ω cms. Diffusions have been carried out both by the \"gaseous\" and the \"paint-on\" process. The devices produced have ranged in area from 1 mm2 to 1 cm2, with the majority of detectors having an area of ~.2 cm2. Using 5.5 mev α particles and a 5 × 5 mm device, the best line width that has been obtained Is 20 kev. It has been found that the 1 cm2 devices give line widths of ~ 50 kev. The effect of the thickness of the n layer forming the front surface of the junction has been investigated, and it has been shown that 0.1-μ diffusions give essentially \"windowless\" detectors. Other properties that have been examined are space charge generation of leakage current, charge collection efficiency as a function of bias and incident particle direction, and signal rise time."
"Gold silicon surface-barrier counters which give good resolution at room temperature have been made. Counters from 150 ohm-cm material have given 15-kev (~1/4 per cent) resolution for Cm244 (5.801 mev) and Am241 (5.477 mev) alpha particles. A large-area 1-cm2 counter has given 0.7 per cent resolution for Po210 (5.30 mev) alpha particles. The detector has resolved alpha particle groups which previously had been unresolved with Frisch-grid pulse-ion chambers."
"Both Au-Si surface barriers and silicon p-n junctions operate satisfactorily as particle spectrometers. The use of high resistivity material gives a depletion region wide enough to stop high-energy protons, α particles, and heavier ions. A resolution of 16 kev (width at half-maximum) for 6.04 mev α particles is obtained with a junction depletion layer sufficient to stop 10 mev α particles. With the depletion region very close to the surface, ß particles in the range from 10 kev to several hundred kev are detectable. The pulse amplitude distribution from Co57 indicates the presence of the two well-known lines at 115 and 129 kev. An attempt has been made to correlate the observed performance with the semiconductor parameters and the diode static characteristics."
"The construction of a silicon diffused junction alpha detector in a form which allows complete encapsulation and protection of the junction edge, and which preserves a good geometry is described. The unit is inherently shielded from electrical pickup, and is shielded from ambient light by a thin metallic film over the sensitive surface. A modified form of the same encapsulation has been used for large area units of 2 cm2 suitable for contamination monitoring. Measurements of energy resolution and other characteristics are reported for units of sensitive area 5 mm2, 20 mm2 and 200 mm2."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"A semiconductor diode modulator will be described capable of measuring dc currents down to 10-10 to 10-11 amperes. This modulator utilizes one diode although a second is normally installed for balance purposes in high sensitivity measurements. The modulator utilizes pulse techniques instead of sine waves which makes possible the high sensitivity. The circuit details of the modulator and design criteria will be discussed."
"A brief description is given of the beam-progromming equipment developed for the Bevatron. The system described provides analog-computer-controlled as well as beam-controlled frequency tracking. Equipment is described that permits arbitrary adjustment and control of the radial position of the circulating beam at any energy. Beamintensity control and the automatic reduction of phase errors in the acceleration system are provided. Included also are units that produce long and short beam pulses. Equipment that permits highly multiple operation is also discussed. The integration of these equipments for extended injection is treated."
"An all-semiconductor reactor safety system is described which consists of a dc amplifier, an adjustable trip level bistable circuit, a diode logic circuit, and a power switching circuit. The dc amplifier is a simple emitter follower transistor stage. Three transistors are used in the bistable circuit, two in a Schmitt-trigger arrangement and one as an output drive. The diode logic circuit uses a combination of OR and AND gates to give 2-out-of-3 coincidence of the bistable circuit outputs. A unijunction transistor and two silicon controlled rectifiers are the active elements in the power switching circuit. These components are particularly well suited for the on-off control needed in reactors and the circuitry is reasonably fail-safe."
"In the Oak Ridge thermonuclear experiment, 600. kev molecular ions of hydrogen or deuterium are injected into the median plane of a direct current magnetic mirror machine (DCX). A fraction of the molecular ions is dissociated (H2+ → H+ + Ho) as the ion beam passes through a high-energy carbon arc whose electrodes are located at each end of DCX. The magnetic field configuration is such that the 300-kev atomic ions thus created are trapped by virtue of the change in charge-to-moss ratio and enter a circular orbit concentric with the magnetic axis. The neutral atoms and the remaining undissociated molecular beam leave the machine. Loss processes, principally charge exchange collisions suffered by the circulating ions, have thus far prevented achieving the appreciable plasma density required for observable fusion reactions. Plasma densities In the order of 10+10 ions/cm3 and mean containment times of 10 to 12 msec have been observed. The experimental program at the present time is one of diagnostic measurements on the trapped ions and their environment, and of building up the plasma density by increasing the trapping rate and containment time."
"A technique Is described using two scintillation phosphors with different decay times mounted on a single photomultiplier tube. The scintillations from the two phosphors are then separated in a pulse length discrimination circuit. The dual phosphor detector is compact and is suitable for use in survey meters and well logging instruments to record different types of radiation simultaneously."
"A computational scheme is presented for correcting the energy resolution of scintillation spectrometers. This scheme, unlike others previously published, appertains only to experimental data and does not rely on theoretical considerations of energy absorption within the scintillator. Applications to beta spectroscopy and analysis are included and a derivation of the ideal scintillation line and the various factors which in practice statistically modify the ideal shape is given in the Appendix."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Research should be made a significant part of undergraduate engineering education in order to orient the student toward the solving of new problems. He should learn of the frontiers of his field of study, and should know of the people who are pushing back these frontiers. An increase is needed in the number of courses designed for guiding a student to define problems, to make assumptions, to search for his own methods of solving them, and to develop a way to report his findings. Almost as a dividend, new ideas and the exercise of originality provide a strong motivation to learning."
"Some of the background of the present scientific manpower shortage is reviewed. Utilization as an important aspect of engineer efficiency is discussed. With this setting, the engineering technician's complementary function with the engineer is introduced. The limited availability of technicians is cited. A discussion of the stepping-stone aspect of the technician job, an area worth consideration because of its ramifications, is presented and the concept of a four-year program for engineering technicians is shown to have significant value in coping with several phases of technician training. Four areas of study and investigation are suggested that can contribute to solution of the overall need of increased scientific manpower through increased utilization. Utilization would be improved by the proper preparation of an adequate number of engineering technicians."
"The teaching-learning process in circuits is enormously complicated by the multiple meanings and shades of meanings which are inherent in most of the technical terms. A method is offered for reducing every term relating to \"functions\" to its basic meaning for the particular circuit application under study. Using this method, which might be called \"current analysis,\" it becomes possible to explain detailed circuit phenomena to students with little or no technical or mathematical background."
"Traveling waves must be considered whenever the time for a disturbance to propagate from one place to another is important. A course with this as its theme has been developed to replace the usual course in transmission lines or distributed constant circuits. Emphasis is placed on the transmission line as a teaching vehicle, but plane waves in space; vibrating strings and membranes; acoustic waves in gases, liquids and solids; heat conduction; and chemical diffusion are also treated. The analogies between the \"telegraphers' equations\" and comparable equations describing nonelectrical phenomena are stressed. Transients are treated for two special cases: 1) lossless lines and acoustics, and 2) diffusion and heat transfer. Steady state analysis using phasors and the Smith Chart is applied to plane electromagnetic and acoustic waves at all angles of incidence, as well as to the transmission line. Spherical acoustic waves are treated briefly."
"This article describes the introductory two-semester course in electrical engineering that has been developed over a period of five years at Princeton University. The aims of the course are to provide an introduction to the field of electrical engineering via the basic concepts of electricity and magnetism (which are developed through Maxwell's equations in the integral form), to apply these concepts in developing the fundamentals of energy conversion and circuit theory, and to carry forward, in a continuous and integrated way, a modern treatment of network analysis. Thus, the treatment proceeds from field ideas to circuits and physical apparatus, and to their mathematical models. With the circuit relations formulated, attention turns to the analysis of networks, starting with network topology and extending through pole-zero ideas. The treatment stops just short of the Laplace transform. This course is intended to serve as a foundation for subsequent courses such as electronic circuits, energy conversion, and advanced network analysis and synthesis, and has been developed with the purpose of providing the student with a unifying point of view for these varied topics."
"This paper describes the organization of a Laboratory Electronics Course in the Department of Aircraft Electrical Engineering at the College of Aeronautics, Cranfield, England. The course caters to two standards of specialization and to students with a wide range of previous training. The minor specialization course concentrates solely on fundamentals and the basic concepts, while the major course is carried to the threshold of design procedures. The contents of both courses are limited by the student's previous training and the time available for practical work. The over-all standard of the major course is that of the M.Sc. degree of a British University. Four different ways of construction and presentation of experiments are described and the limitations of each are discussed. Finally, the laboratory layout, equipment, and scheme of work for both courses is described."
"A blocked-rotor test may be used to determine curves for a family of dynamic operating characteristics for dc machines. Conventional performance characteristics may be predicted from these curves. The authors have used this test procedure to supplement the usual tests on machinery in the sophomore laboratory. The new procedure emphasizes the fundamental principles of machine operation and also points up the importance of certain details which have a significant effect upon performance. The test would logically precede the usual load tests. The latter are then anticipated with enthusiasm since they provide confirmation of performance predicted from the static tests."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The physics syllabus being offered in the academic high schools of New York City has aroused considerable interest as to its value as prerequisite to baccalaureate programs in science and engineering. To gather certain facts, the Engineering Advisory Committee was organized, comprised of members selected from the New York Metropolitan sections of the professional engineering societies. The members visited numerous schools to arrive at a broad appraisal of high-school physics as a pre-engineering preparation. They inspected class schedules, laboratory facilities and libraries. They examined laboratory schedules, textbooks in use, teaching load assignments, and procedures for ordering laboratory equipment. They evaluated the qualifications of teachers and methods for motivating gifted students. Their findings are described in this report which includes a listing of recommendations."
"The undergraduate electrical engineering program at The Johns Hopkins University has undergone extensive revision. The most striking revision has been in the laboratory program. Laboratory courses which are distinct from the lecture courses have been developed. These laboratory courses embrace the fields of basic and advanced electrical measurements, transducers, passive circuits, active networks, communications, microwaves, materials, computers, servomechanisms, and energy conversion. The experiments in each one of these fields are designed to give the student insight into both the basic and advanced concepts involved. The sequence of presentation of the experiments is chosen to allow the most complete coverage of a subject as possible, based on the order in which the electrical engineering lecture courses are taken. The use of laboratory manuals, notebooks, reports, and examinations has been given careful thought and some significant ideas have been evolved with regard to their use in establishing a successful laboratory course."
"Current techniques for formulating the mathematical characteristics of physical systems vary greatly from one type to another (mechanical, electrical, thermal, etc.). Of these techniques, those used in electrical network analysis have proven to be the more orderly and generally applicable as evidenced by repeated efforts on the part of the system analyst to establish first an electrical analog of the system in question. This paper presents the basis of an operational concept of system analysis embracing all types of systems, and presents an orderly, sure, and relatively simple basis for extending the discipline of linear graph theory (abstracted form of network theory) to the analysis and synthesis of all types of lumped-parameter systems without the artifice of analogies. It is indicated that these procedures and concepts also provide a means for extending electrical network theory beyond current applications to include systems of multiterminal components."
"The San Francisco Bay area has been rapidly growing in size and stature as one of the national centers of the electronics industry. In particular, the growth has been in companies and laboratories with a strong emphasis on research and development, in contrast to volume production. Such industry needs and seeks opportunities for graduate education for its engineers. The manner in which such opportunities have developed in the San Francisco area, especially at Stanford where the great majority of the part-time students are enrolled, provides an interesting example of how the needs of industry can be served within the academic objectives of an educational institution which serves primarily the full-time day student."
"This is a discussion of a method of instruction designed to replace conventional methods for training radio repairmen. In traditional radio repair instruction, basic electronics has been taught as a block of instruction preceding instruction on intact equipment and maintenance operations. This approach is criticized for its failure to provide the student with meaningful and relevant contexts for the learning of basic electronics and for the obstacles it presents to the assimilation of basic electronics knowledge into maintenance skills. A new approach, entitled the functional context method, is offered as a means for avoiding these shortcomings. This is accomplished through a topic sequence wherein basic electronics is taught in the broader contexts of over-all equipment functions and maintenance operations."
"Engineering college enrollment is in some measure a response to the demand for trained people. The forecasting of enrollment may thus be improved if it is based upon trends in the demand for trained people. One way to measure these trends, which does not seem to have been explored, comes from consideration of the membership in technical societies. The trends found in this way are very marked. The over-all rate of growth so indicated is exponential and is about 7 1/2 per cent per year. The indicated growth rate in electrical engineering is much greater than in any of the other major subdivisions of engineering except chemical engineering."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"The dynamic persistence of scientific and technological development in the past two decades has aroused an intensity of public interest in education which is higher today than at any time in history. Perhaps the greatest impact of scientific progress has been the emergence of a more universal view of human society as a whole. We have two cultures-that of science, and that associated with the more traditional values of the humanities. This paper represents a technologist's attempt to present a bird's eye view of the broad educational scene, both national and international. In discussing the major issue of the controversial scientist-vs-the-non-scientist problem, the author finds that it is the non-scientist-the humanist, the artist, the literary intellectual, the politician-who is the most unbalanced member of our society, in terms of the formal education which he receives."
"The objectives of Carnegie's first course for electrical engineering students are the conversion of basic science into \"root content\" and the development of professional method. Both objectives are met by a program of the solution of a series of professionally difficult but scientifically simple problems, which require both analytical and experimental work. All laboratory work is planned by the student, who takes major responsibility for its conduct and is permitted to make mistakes. Each new problem is used but once. Typical problem solutions require two to three weeks and two to three laboratory periods for completion. Recitation and laboratory work are integrated. Several examples of problems are given, together with typical student plans, student reports, and instructor's comments. General rules for planning such a course are presented. The success of the course and its effect on the rest of the curriculum are discussed."
"Conventional circuit analysis courses are generally taught by electrical engineering instructors in a proprietary fashion. The underlying reasons for this state of affairs are history and utility; circuit theory was developed from a consideration of electric circuits and found its most important area of application there. Intrinsically, however, circuit theory is no more \"electrical\" than arithmetic is \"financial.\" This paper explains the basis for an abstract circuit course \"abstract\" in the sense that the circuit connotation is not necessarily electrical but may, with equal validity, be mechanical, acoustical, thermal, etc. Generalized circuit variables are classed as either potential or flow variables, and generalized circuit parameters are then categorized according to their behavioral equations (Hooke's Law, Ohm's Law, Fourier's Law, etc.). A simple systematic method of finding a circuit diagram for a system composed of such parameters is shown."
"This paper discusses the possibility of building an electronic transducer to take the place of the existing teaching machines. The tasks that can be performed by such a machine as well as the advantages and risks involved are discussed."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The origin of the familiar valence band-forbidden gap-conduction band features of the electronic energy level scheme of a crystalline solid is developed according to 1) the extension of the atomic energy level scheme for individual atoms, 2) examination of the quantized momentum spectrum of a valence electron gas in a periodic potential enclosure, and 3) analogy with the pass-band and stop-band features in the frequency characteristic of a periodically-loaded mechanical transmission line. Since the first two approaches are amply treated in the conventional literature, this paper dwells particularly on the third approach, which may be preferred over the other two by readers having more extensive backgrounds in mechanical or electrical engineering than in theoretical physics. A simple mechanical wave transmission apparatus is described, with which the frequency characteristic can be observed and plotted. This characteristic is then related to the energy band picture of a solid by recognizing that a crystal can be regarded as a \"loaded\" transmission line for electron waves."
"The principal aim of this paper is to present the concepts associated with the electrical properties of semiconductors. Simplified ways of envisioning holes, electrons, and diode and transistor action are presented. Intrinsic or pure semiconductor material is discussed first, followed by discussions of n- and p-type material, p-n junction diodes, photodiodes, and transistors. The paper is aimed at educators who are not directly involved with semiconductor devices."
"In most transistors which are useful to engineering, densities of electrons and holes are low enough so that random energies have the classical Maxwell-Boltzmann distribution. Also, the customary large ratios of majority-to-minority carrier densities result in majority-carrier flow occurring in response to electric gradients, and minority-carrier flow by diffusion due to concentration gradients. Steps using these principles to derive junction transistor volt-ampere characteristic equations are: 1) interface contact potential determination, 2) expression of emitter and collector currents in terms of random-motion interface penetration, 3) boundary-value solution of the diffusion-flow differential equation, to give minority-carrier density distributions, 4) expression of currents in terms of at-interface density distribution gradients, 5) elimination of at-interface minority-carrier densities between 2) and 4), giving the Ebers and Moll volt-ampere equations. These equations show how base thickness, diffusion lengths, and relative majority carrier densities in emitter, base, and collector affect the characteristics. The residual collector current is found to be a measure of electron-hole pair generation. The relation of this current to surface energy states, and to the associated double layer of charge at and near the surface, is discussed."
"Semiconductor diodes have achieved great prominence in the electronic industry because of their outstanding performance and great versatility. They are consequently of increasing importance in the education of electrical engineers. Since new diodes are being continually developed, it is essential that the educational emphasis be placed on underlying principles rather than on the devices themselves. In this paper a brief descriptive outline is presented of some of the p-n junction phenomena that are important in understanding diode performance. Among these phenomena are nonlinear resistance, conductivity modulation, avalanche breakdown, carrier storage, junction capacitance, and carrier tunneling. As illustrations of these effects, the characteristics of several types of diodes are discussed."
"Conversions of energy in general are considered first, with emphasis on schemes appropriate for energy conversion devices. For the purposes of this paper, the vast numbers of conversion possibilities are restricted to solid-state devices. The direct coupling between heat and electricity is singled out for more detailed discussion of a useful figure of merit. The present state of the thermoelectric generator art is reviewed briefly, with some predictions of future developments."
"The basic operating principles of three low-temperature devices the maser, the cryotron, and the cryosar are discussed. In masers the process of stimulated emission of radiation is used to produce an extremely low noise amplifier, with all practical solid state masers thus far employing the electron spins in paramagnetic salts. The cryotron and the cryosar are both primarily intended for computer applications. The former utilizes the phenomenon of superconductivity and its quenching in magnetic fields; the latter uses impact ionization of impurities in semiconductors."
"The meanings of the words microcircuits, molecular electronics, integrated circuits, and functional devices are examined with the conclusions that, as generally used, the only sensible definitions are as follows: a microcircuit is one in which connections are made between circuit elements on a microscopic scale. Molecular electronics, integrated circuits, and functional devices all have essentially the same meaning, which is that connections are made between circuit elements inside a single block of material without bringing leads out. The next order of miniaturization that is required for space vehicles and large-scale computers will use a microeletronic or molecular electronic technology in combination with conventional miniature techniques. The feasibility of very large components of systems being made by a molecular or microelectronic technique depends on the combination of many orders of magnitude reduction in manufacturing shrinkage combined with the design of circuits to tolerate unreliable or defective elements."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"A comprehensive listing of the authors, articles and departments included in 1960."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"It is the engineer, then, who indicates the performance desired and the magnetic cores on which he desires the winding to be developed. The computer develops the most satisfactory winding that is possible within these prescribed limitations, and reports the predicted performance of the machine as predicted by the design analysis method. It also gives the winding which is needed in the machine. Considerable flexibility is allowed as indicated. Fig. 5 shows the computer room where the procedures discussed in this paper are in daily use. In addition, many mechanical design calculations are performed such as shaft and bearing loading, shaft deflections, critical speeds, commutator design. Much d-c design work is done here. This computer is the same Alwac III described in the author's earlier paper1 except for the addition of the high-speed papertape-handling console and off-line flexowriter which comes close to tripling the potential output of the computer. Fig. 6 shows additional engineering data computed on the example. These consist of half-voltage locked-rotor torque and amperes, performance over a range of loads to 150% and a speedtorque curve which takes into account the effect of saturation of the leakage flux paths."
"The first two parts of this series have developed the analysis of solid rotor machines for both flat and cylindrical models of infinite length. 1,2 The objective of this part is to present a representation of a finite length, flat model so that a correction for end effects may be incorporated in the operational impedance expressions. The correction presented gives a first-order approximation for this effect. The field analysis considering finite length is also of value in calculating air gap and rotor body spatial distributions of field quantities."
"One of the most important problems in the theory of rotating electric machinery is that of accounting for saturation effects. This paper adapts the results of the analysis of eddy current effects in semi-infinite solid saturated iron to develop the high-frequency operational and equivalent circuit impedances of a solid rotor machine. Parts I, II, and III of this series have presented a development of the basic theory, an investigation of the effects of curvature and a consideration of end effects, respectively. 1-3 Another paper has investigated the effects of field leakage. 4 This paper utilizes the electromagnetic model of Part I, neglecting the minor effects of curvature and finite length, except that the rotor iron is assumed to have a rectangular saturation curve.1 With the aid of this model, operational-and equivalent-circuit impedance equations are developed for conditions with relatively high-frequency eddy currents wherein the air gap fields are essentially one dimensional. Per-unit numerical data are given which illustrate the theoretical effect of saturation in increasing the resistive rotor impedance components over those obtained from a linear analysis."
"A drive is analyzed consisting of a series-field generator, driven at a constant speed and electrically connected to a series-field motor which provides the load. The magnetization curves of both machines are assumed to consist of a linear region and two saturated regions. Both machines saturate at the same current level. Hysteresis is neglected. This system constitutes a second-order system with three nonlinear terms. The behavior of this system can be described by phase-plane representation If current and motor speed are used as the co-ordinates of the phase plane, then the phase-plane portrait will be symmetrical to the motor-speed axis. Considering all possible variations of the system parameters, two basic cases of system operation are possible. They are: 1. Steady-state current-flow exists. 2. Steady-state current-flow cannot exist. Case 1 includes ordinary system-operation as a drive. In case 2, both the generator and the motor are driven, but no steady-state power transfer between generator and motor takes place. The two basic cases will be represented by the following singular-point arrangements on the phase plane with current and motor speed as the co-ordinates: 1. One saddle point on the speed axis (current equal to zero), plus one pair of singular points symmetrical to the speed axis, which, depending on the values of the system-parameters, may be one of the following: a. Stable nodes. b. Stable focuses. c."
"This bibliography is a continuation of similar bibliographies of relay literature which have been previously published and are contained in the following volumes of AIEE Transactions: 1927-1939, vol. 60, 1941, pp. 1435-1446; 1940-1943, vol. 63, 1944, pp. 705-709; 1944-1946, vol. 67, pt. I, 1948, pp. 24-27; 1947-1949, vol. 70, pt. 1, 1951, pp. 247-250; 1950-1952, vol. 74, pt. HII (Power Apparatus and Systems), Apr. 1955, pp. 45-48; 1953-1954, vol. 76, pt. III (Power Apparatus and Systems), Apr. 1957, pp. 126-128; 1955-1956, vol. 78, pt. III (Power Apparatus and Systems), Apr. 1959, pp. 78-81. The papers listed include references on the subjects of service restoration, testing, and methods of calculation, as well as on the field of relaying. Only the more readily available foreign publications are included. All articles listed are in English unless otherwise noted."
"This bibliography is an attempt to assemble a reasonably complete set of references pertaining to the measurement of ground resistance and electrical potential gradients in the earth up to 1959. Included in this bibliography are 193 titles with numerous abstracts of publications applicable to the measurement of ground resistance and potential gradients based on an exhaustive search of domestic literature and also the foreign literature available to the working group. Many references contain a short note describing the content of the paper as it pertains to the measurement of ground resistance and potential gradients. The presence, absence, detail, or length of these abstracts does not indicate the value of any publication. For the convenience of the user of this bibliography, the various references have been classified according to the country in which they were published, with subclassifications according to the publication in which they appeared."
"The suggested ASTM (American Institute for Testing Materials) and AIEE methods for the evaluation of the thermal stability of varnished glass fabric insulation are reviewed and the ASTM \"Electric Breakdown Test Procedure\" was found to be the better method, for it is more reproducible and gives a history of life of the varnish during thermal aging. The thermal stability of modified phenolic varnishes as measured by the ASTM breakdown procedure was substantiated by the thermal life evaluation of the same varnish in an insulation system by functional motor tests."
"Shape, size, gas pressure, and distribution of cavities are inivestigated in the oil-impregnated insulation of solidtype cables for the purpose of estimating dielectric strength. Possible cavity locations and the influence which acting forces and gas solution in the oil have on the cavities, are discussed first. Gas solution is treated as a diffusion process and the time variation of pressure in the cavities calculated. Cavity properties vary continually and the changes are discussed from manufacture to first operation, when the cable is put on load, and when it is cooling. Cavitation on cooling is treated, growing rate of new cavities and pressure drop across the insulation calculated, and the influence of cavitation upon the temperature rise limit considered. Corona occurrence is estimated with the help of this analysis of cavity properties. Means which diminish corona are discussed and compared with current practice in cable design. It is thought that cavity analysis might be usefully applied also to other apparatus with impregnated insulation, e. g., transformers and capacitors."
"The increased use of d-c machinery in controlled industrial drives and in automation has created renewed interest in the finer points of their design. The use of digital computers now makes it possible to include in the design calculations complicated stray load-loss equations without imposing on the valuable time of the designer. A review of information on stray load losses seems to be desirable at this time. This paper describes the state of the art as it is presented in published papers dealing with the theory of load losses. The losses are classified in the paper according to the location where they occur. The cause of the losses is described and then the calculation of losses is reviewed historically. Some of the results are reproduced and a bibliography is added. The bibliography does not claim completeness. It is believed that the most important papers published in the American, English, French, and German engineering literature, referring to stray load losses, are quoted. Papers that did not contain any new method, idea, approach, simplification, or test data and were repetitions of publications already among the references were omitted."
"1. A method has been developed whereby the optimum configuration and conductor area may be determined for a given EHV transmission line, taking into account all the parameters which have economic significance. 2. This method is general, and applicable to a wide range of system configurations, transmission distances, voltages, and loadings per circuit. Economic evalution factors may be varied to agree with available cost data, and the judgment and policies of the utility management. 3. This method is embodied into a digital computer program for the IBM705 computer, providing rapid computation of any case to be investigated. 4. Fifty-eight different cases were investigated in this study, to determine the effect of varying the system parameters and the economic evaluation factors over a wide range of values which are of practical interest for the United States and Canada. 5. Annual cost differentials between the minimum cost points for the various configurations are considerable and correspond to several per cent of the annual charges on the line investment. 6. The optimum configuration depends upon the particular values of the system parameters and economic evaluation factors. Therefore it is difficult to draw over-all conclusions, valid for all cases. Rather, each specific case will have to be investigated separately according to the method described in this paper. 7. In general, as the load per circuit increases, relative to surge impedance loading, the number of conductors per phase corresponding to the optimum configuration also increases. 8."
"Eigenvalues and modal matrices are utilized for the first time in loss formula construction. The new method provides the following advantages: 1. Its biggest advantage is that it greatly reduces the number of B constants required for the loss formula; see Table I. It eliminates all off-diagonal terms. 2. The new method in its complete form gives both power and reactive losses. 3. The new method permits using actual reactive generation as well as actual power generation at each source, if desired and if the reactive information is available. If it is not available, reactive ratios may be taken from the base-case conditions, or any linear type of P/Q relation may be utilized. 4. A new method of taking account of known load ratios has been developed. It uses a simple addition matrix. 5. The new method eliminates the use of unsymmetrical square matrices with their resultant complications. 6. Although some recent computer methods compute \"w prime\" or \"R sub LL,\" instead of the conventional practice of selecting an arbitrary value for it that will make the base case check perfectly, the new method of load fixation eliminates this alltoo-convenient means of making previous errors and approximations invisible. 7. It is possible to use either an admittance matrix of the transmission system or an impedance matrix. Both have the same eigenvectors, but the eigenvalues are individual reciprocals of each other. (The eigenvectors and eigenvalues are complex quanitities in some of the operations used here."
"PROJECT EHV is a prototype 3-phase transmission line intended to be operated at voltages as high as 750 kv to permit a study of the factors affecting the design and operation of extra-high-voltage (EHV) transmission lines. It is being constructed near Pittsfield, Mass., USA, and will be approximately 4.3 miles long. Since it is a developmental line, it is to be equipped with an unusually wide range of instruments for the measurement of environmental conditions and many mechanical and electrical quantities. Among the latter is complete instrumentation for the measurement of corona losses. Information on corona losses will be correlated statistically with other information such as meteorological conditions and radio noise. This paper describes some of the preliminary work done to assist in the choice of suitable instrumentation for the measurement of corona losses."
"1. A graphical method for evaluating the effect of nonstandard lightning surge voltages on equipment insulation has been presented and applied in the course of the study. The method is considered to be sufficiently accurate in measuring the relative effect of surge voltages to be extremely useful in such a study. The method is simple to understand and very easy to apply to surge evaluation. 2. Typical station configurations were studied at several system voltage levels and in each case the equipment insulation levels and lightning arrester ratings commonly used were employed. 3. The results of the study are summarized in Table V where suggested lightning arrester locations are indicated for the 16 cases that were studied and discussed in detail earlier. The locations suggested for lightning arresters represent, in some cases, greater separation distances from transformers than recommended heretofore. The study has assumed perfect shielding of the station from direct lightning strokes and that surges originate at a point 1/ 2 mile from the station. It must be pointed out that considerations of switching surge overvoltages, such as may occur upon deenergization of a transformer, might require the location of arresters between the circuit breaker and transformer. It is also to be pointed out that the study has considered voltages occurring in the station and has not treated the problem of protecting the incoming line side of the circuit breaker when in the open position. 4."
"The AIEE New Working Group on Methods of Rating Power Circuit Breakers deemed it advisable to issue a separate document for the various definitions used in connection with the revision of the Rating Structure for Alternating-Current Power Circuit Breakers, C37.4, and the associated sections through C37.12. In this connection it was suggested that vacant section C37.3 be used for this purpose. These definitions were formerly included in Conference Paper 59-186 (unpublished) presented at the 1959 Winter General Meeting, and have been revised as a result of comments received."
"Specifying and determining the performance of circuit interrupting devices which interrupt short-circuit currents requires the measurement of the magnitude of transient alternating currents and voltages. Because direct components of current and alternating components of both current and voltage may be decreasing or increasing at the time for which measurement is desired, standards, e. g., C37.4, have defined the currents as rms values determined from the components at a given instant, and the recovery voltages as rms values measured from the envelope of the a-c component at the peak occurring during the interval of 1/ 2 to 1 cycle after final current interruption. These definitions eliminate the problem of decrements and simplify the measurement of the currents and voltages. Methods of measuring oscillograms to obtain these values are given in this section of standards for Alternating Current Power Circuit Breakers."
"The AIEE New Working Group on Methods of Rating Power Circuit Breakers presented at the 1959 Winter General Meeting Conference Paper 59-186, entitled \" Proposed Revision of American Standard C37.4, Rating Structure for Alternating-Current Power Circuit Breakers.\" That paper has been further reviewed and rewritten, see page 449 of this issue. The paper presented herewith is a companion paper. It conforms to the revised Rating Structure and employs a corresponding numbering system of the various sections. Much of the information included on circuit-breaker application has heretofore not appeared in the American Standards. The methods for calculation of shortcircuit currents proposed in this paper are designed to demonstrate and make clear symmetrical as well as asymmetrical current requirements. The calculation procedure provides: 1. an E/ X (symmetrical current) simplified method, 2. an E/ X method corrected for a-c and d-c decrements, and 3. the method generally recognized in the industry as the \" rigorous method,\" although it is probably not necessary to employ this procedure in view of the accuracy obtainable by the two easier methods. Method 2 has been developed primarily to replace the more difficult method 3, and it provides at the same time a great improvement in accuracy as compared with the simplified method of American Standard C37.5-1953, with relatively Little additional effort being required of the application engineer."
"Conductor stringing tension plays an important part in overhead transmission line capital cost. This paper will demonstrate to what degree the weight of the supporting structures, the steel corealuminum ratio, and the selection of the optimum conductivity are influenced by \"loose\" or \"tight\" conductor stringing. It also will show the savings which could be effected if tighter conductor tensions were employed. The cost estimates and comparisons contained in the body of this paper sustain the hypothesis that tighter conductor stringing can result in substantial savings in overhead transmission line first cost. Annual cost of energy losses can be reduced by substituting lighter cored ACSR cables at tighter tensions for loosely strung larger cored cables of smaller conductivity at no increase in first cost. The treatment of the broken wire load is the greatest single obstacle in cost reduction with increased conductor tension. The influence which the treatment of the longitudinal load has upon tower weights points up that consideration of conductor tension becomes an even more important cost factor as the broken wire loads are relaxed. It cannot be emphasized too firmly that tighter conductor tensions will require a judicious selection of vibration protection hardware at suspension and strain points or fatigue breaks in the cable elements may well ensure. Forty years or more ago the effects of wind induced aeolian vibration were first recognized, yet we still live in the age of low tensions."
"Tests to assess the reliability of a power line carrier system during sustained line faults have shown that a carrier operating range of about 60 db (decibels), in addition to that required for normal line attenuation, should permit reliable operation through faults. The use of line-to-line coupling provides no more than 8 db advantage over line-to-ground coupling."
"In part I of this article [AIEE Transactions, pt. Ill-B (Power Apparatus and Systems), vol. 78, 1959 (Feb. 1960 section), pp. 1573-80] there were presented design formulas and curves for the calculation of hannonic content in the output voltage of salient-pole ac generators with both uniform and nonuniform air gaps, under balanced, 3-phase loading. This part of the paper presents the derivation of these curves and experimental verification of the formulas, as well as a convenient calculation sheet for analytical determination of the harmonics."
"The very nature of the return stroke is that of a traveling wave. It is felt, therefore, that the interpretation of field measurements from this phase of the stroke will be facilitated by expressions based upon traveling waves rather than upon electric moments. Expressions of this nature have been derived and compared with corresponding expressions derived from Lejay's moment equation. The wave expressions are more rigorously correct and have been used to indicate the limitations of the moment expression. The field measurements due to the return stroke, when these measurements are made remote from the stroke, are essentially responsive to current effects only and not to charges. The return stroke has been visualized as beginning from the earth. The velocity of the highly luminous head of the upward plasma channel is assumed to start at a low value and to increase exponentially with time until union occurs with the downward plasma channel. At union the velocity of the upward plasma channel is of the order of 12% of that of light. Then for purposes of calculation it is assumed to be constant thereafter. The current in the upward plasma channel at any instant is constant throughout its length behind the head as it proceeds upward and like the velocity also increases exponentially with time until union occurs, after which it is constant with time and distance."
"1. Simplified methods of calculating the voltage across the insulator string are presented based on field-theory concepts for a stroke to the tower with zero towerfooting resistance. 2. The voltage across the insulator string is composed of two components: (a). that produced by the rent and the charge fed into the tower and ground wires, and (b). that produced by the charge above the tower. 3. To calculate the voltage produced by the current and charge fed into the tower and ground wires, conventional traveling-wave theory and methods can be used provided the proper value of surge impedances are used. 4. Equations, based on field theory, are presented to calculate the ground wire and tower surge impedances and the conductor-to-ground mutual impedances. 5. The development of travelingwave theory directly from field theory places traveling-wave theory on a more rigorous basis. 6. To calculate the voltage produced by the charge above the tower, approximate simplified equations are given for a given stroke mechanism. These can be modified for other assumptions. 7. From examples and calculations given in this paper it is possible to gain some insight on the effect of tower geometry, number of ground wires, and position of the conductor on the voltage across the insulator string. Voltages were calculateed across the top and bottom insulator strings of the single-groundwire AEP-OVEC 345-kv tower, across the top insulator string of the two-groundwire AEP-OVEC 345-kv tower, and across the insulator string on the PW&P 220-kv tower."
"The paper describes an instrument of the klydonograph type which gives a record in the form of as many as 36 different Lichtenberg figures for a given applied voltage wave. Taken in combination, these figures permit the diagnosis of the applied wave with respect to its waveform and crest amplitude. In particular, the prestrike theory 2 predicts a current spike of fast front and short duration, followed by a relatively long tailed wave of moderately slow front. The instrument was designed with this duality of possibilities in mind, and laboratory tests indicate that it functions in the expected manner. The instrument is 18 by 12½ by 5 inches in size and weighs about 18 pounds. It is actually two complete instruments in one case which can be given different sensitivities by means of resistance voltage dividers. It is responsive to wavefronts over the complete range of 0.05-10 μsec, and deductions of wavefront can be made with reasonable accuracy over this range."
"From these tests on model electrodes in an electrolytic trough certain broad aspects of the problem can be summarized. 1. For small areas and single items of equipment, grounding arrays of from one to a few rods generally cannot be expected to reduce the touch and step potentials to an acceptable value. 2. The control of potential gradients by means of buried wires was explored. From tests on wires with and without rod electrodes atlid at various depths it can be concluded that no one arrangement is better than any other by more than a few per cent. 3. The resistance of a typical transmissiontower footing can be reduced by driving a considerable number of long ground rods. The slope of the tower-potential gradient curve is not essentially changed by the addition of driven rods if the braces are below the earth's surface. 4. When driven rods are added to a small substation mesh a small reduction in resistance was the only tangible benefit. In actual practice, however, driven rods are generally necessary to stabilize the mesh grounding when the soil is dry or frozen. Model tests are about the only method available to verify experimentally calculated potential gradients for various grounding electrode arrangements. The difficulties in making extensive model tests, however, are considerable as the electrolytic tank must be quite large to maintain an error of less than 5%. This necessitates an outdoor installation subject to weather and other minor hazards."
"In this paper, new equivalent circuits and procedures are given for calculating the speed-, torque-, current-curves, and stray losses of induction motors having solid steel rotors as well as slot-embedded squirrel-cage bars. The new procedures include effects of eddy currents in the solid steel rotor in parallel with the squirrel-cage bar currents, using two alternative forms of the equivalent circuit. It was found that the presence of the solid iron reduced the zigzag leakage reactance of the rotor bars, allowing more tooth frequency currents to flow in these bars; thereby markedly increasing the stray load loss when the air gap is small. By increasing the air gap, this type of loss is markedly reduced. The losses due to phase-belt harmonics can be reduced by interspersing. The test results are in excellent agreement with the calculated values."
"A more sensitive and accurate circuit has been devised and tested for showing integrated corona charge transfer per cycle in insulation samples. The method can be used as a very accurate and more rapid quality-control measurement of degree of impregnation or residual voids in apparatus insulation. A rather precise measurement of the fraction of gas space to solid in insulation structures can be obtained from this technique. The estimate of internal voids obtained from this technique is believed to be more accurate than that obtained from highvoltage Schering bridge measurements, with which it can be correlated."
"A mathematical analysis is put forward for the calculation of the best number of rotor teeth for a 3-phase inductor alternator. Although a particular type of inductor alternator has been selected for this analysis, the analysis can be extended to other types of inductor alternators with suitable modifications."
"The possibility of reversing single-phase squirrel-cage induction motors simply by reversing the supply voltage at the terminals of the motor with a reversing switch is examined in this paper. Experiments were performed by the author and reversal was found feasible. Some of the experimental results are shown here and the findings with the established two-reaction theory are explained."
"A mathematical analysis has been put forward to analyze a 3-phase inductor alternator. Although one particular type of inductor alternator within the frequency range of 400-800 cps (cycles per second) has been analyzed in this paper,1 with suitable modifications, this analysis can be extended to other type of inductor alternators. This analysis is based on the calculation of self and mutual inductances of the coils, and so is quite suitable to analyze the machine under transient conditions."
"After extensive analysis of data representing 1,767 machine-years of hydroelectric generating unit operation, the following conclusions have been reached. 1. There is no evidence that unit size is a factor in determining the outage rate for hydroelectric units. 2. There is some very inconclusive evidence that runner type and age have some effect upon unit outage rate. 3. There is substantial evidence that different types of runners experience outages with different frequencies, but that those types subject to more frequent outages are generally restored to service more rapidly after a forced outage, thus tending to keep the over-all outage rates for various types of units in balance. 4. It was found that neither the exponential nor the log-normal distributions fit the collected data on duration of outages well enough to be accepted as the true underlying distribution. However the log-normal distribution describes the data well enough for most purposes. 5. It was concluded that the best over-all outage factor for hydroelectric units which could be determined from the present data was 0.723%. The evaluation of loss of system generation capacity due to generator forced outages can be made by using probability methods. The Halperin and Adler mathematics provide a method for the calculation of probability which is identical in most respects to other methods for this calculation. The Halperin and Adler mathematics also provide a method for calculating average duration and interval."
"This work describes a method of quickly obtaining the transmission loss formula expressing the total transmission losses in terms of source powers, as well as to give a simple expression for the practical calculation of loss formula coefficients. The development of the derived loss formula involves only one transformation matrix."
"Newark Switching Station is the first indoor switching station on the Public Service Electric and Gas Company system supplied at 138 kv and incorporating distribution facilities at two voltages, 13 and 26 kv, within a single building. The station design successfully accomplishes several aims, namely: Capability of enlargement to an ultimate of 330,000 kva within the property dimensions. The most economical arrangement compatible with the high degree of reliability essential to supply a concentrated metropolitan load. Ease of expansion. Economy through maximum practical transformer size. Minimized fire hazard by segregation of equipment, fireproof construction, and elimination of all major elements of combustible material except in the transformers, which are equipped with automatic water spray. Quiet operation by incorporation of noise reduction construction and methods. Appearance in keeping with the city's modernization trend."
"This IS a revision of the Bibliography on Transformer Noise published in AIEE Transactions, pt. III-B (Power Apparatus and Systems), vol. 73, 1954 (Feb. 1955 section), pp. 1760-62, and is extended to include foreign references."
"A new method for obtaining a loop connection matrix has been described. In the authors' opinion, this method is more suitable for programing than the topological scheme given in the standard references on this subject. The method is fast and requires very little computer memory."
"For design purposes cascadedtesting transformer circuits can be reduced to equivalent inductance and capacitance networks by properly combining the circuit elements. After establishing the circuit conditions, the initial surge voltage to ground at any point in the circuit and at any time can be calculated, thereby fixing an insulation design level for all units of the cascade set. The inductance and capacitance elements of the cascaded windings involved are identified and are reduced to an equivalent twoor three-mesh network, and the method for calculating the surge distribution across each unit is developed. Formulas, curves, and diagrams for the various steps are included and oscillograms of test waves are shown to establish the accuracy and validity of the method."
"In 1955, at the Black Dog Steam Station of Northern States Power Company (NSP), a 97-kv lightning arrester on the 115-2.4-kv reserve auxiliary transformer failed while de-energizing the 115-kv transfer bus with an air-break switch. The replacement of this arrester failed in 1957 when the 115-kv transfer bus was being energized through an air-break switch. These two arresters were not manufactured by the companies with which the authors are associated. Considering these failures as more than coincidental, a thorough investigation was initiated by NSP to attempt to explain how this transfer bus switching influenced the arrester failures. Analytical and Anacom (General Purpose Transient Analyzer) studies supplemented by field tests indicated sufficiently high overvoltages could be created by the transfer bus switch operation, due to a prestrike or restrike, to cause the lightning arrester to operate."
"Soil moisture exists simultaneously in a variety of states, ranging from the solid, through plastic and liquid, to the gaseous state. Its condition and characteristics in each state are determined by the interplay of the properties of the soil solids and the water molecules. The two categories of soil water of most interest to the cable engineer, because of their direct and indirect influences on soil thermal conductivity, are hygroscopic, or adsorbed, water and capillary water. Hygroscopic water is spread over the surfaces of the individual soil particles, where it is held very tightly. It increases the contact area between the individual soil particles enough to provide paths for the flow of heat, thus being very efficient in decreasing the over-all thermal resistivity of the soil below what it would be in the dry state. Hygroscopic water contributes to the swelling and shrinking of montmorillonite clay soils. A very small increase in moisture content above the hygroscopic coefficient is sufficient to provide the lubrication required for the most effective compaction of clay soils. Capillary water provides an additional increase in conductivity, but its effectiveness in this respect is comparatively less because it can only increase the area of heat-flow paths already established by the hygroscopic water."
"Because of several loss-ofexcitation operations, it became necessary to develop a method to study the effect that loss of excitation on one generator would have on other generators on a system. Methods described in the literature were suitable for solving the single-machinie infinite-bus case only. The purpose of this paper is to describe another method involving modification of the techniques used in solving the transient stability problem. This method, which produces results similar to those obtained by other methods, is useful in studying the effect of loss of excitation on a multimachine system."
"The \"standard\" dust-fog test methods (Table I), although complex and time consuming, give sufficient repeatability of results (see appendix) to pennit comparative evaluation of the track resistance of materials over a very wide quality range (0.4-3,000 hours). This is apparently a much greater quality range than can be measured with the best drop-test methods standardized elsewhere. 4,12 A revrised form of the dust-fog test provides a much greater rate of degradation of enhancing tracking tendencies; also, the rate of degradation is less time-dependent compared with the \"standard\" tests. Both tests give results that may be correlated with the chemical structure and filler content of polymers; also both tests give results that correlate with the results of ASTM D495 arc-resistance tests for many unfilled and hydrated mineral-filled polymers. The D495 test may be employed to detect some wet-track susceptible materials and to predict the optimum contents of hydrated fillers used to improve the wet-track resistance of many types of polymers that do not contain too high a proportion of phenyl rings, chlorine together with hydrogen, or amine and amide groups in their structures. A short-time screening test is still needed for materials for which the dust-fog life is greater than 10 hours (International Electrochemical Commission tracking indexes greater than 1,000 volts). The use of diagnostic techniques (pH indicators, etc.) is informative."
"A general formula has been developed relating substation bus voltage range, feeder regulator range, and feeder voltage drop and desired feeding-point voltage for any circuit loading from peak to light load. Equations for permissible range of bus voltage for feeders with any voltage drop and load current range have been derived, as well as an equation for maximum permissible feeder drop for a given minimum bus voltage at the time of peak load. Graphs of these equations have been plotted and examples of their application to certain particular circuits presented."
"The great simplicity, reliability, and low cost of the bushing-type current transformer has led inventors to devise various schemes to improve its accuracy to metering standards. Premagnetization is one of such methods. When premagnetized by an auxiliary core it has the added advantage that it does not need any external source of power supply. This method, however, has been little used in practice, because its theory was never properly understood. The present paper develops the theory of a method for calculating performance and also gives a comprehensive design procedure for such a current transformer."
"The leakage reactance of an induction motor that determines the locked-rotor current at full voltage is generally much smaller than the reactance that determines the full-load power factor or the pullout torque. Anything that can be done to bring these extreme values of the reactance together is helpful, as the designer can thereby either reduce the locked-rotor current or increase the power factor and pullout torque, whichever he prefers. A chief cause of reduced reactance at locked rotor, i.e., under starting conditions, is magnetic saturation of the stator and rotor tooth tips, due to the combined effects of zigzag and slot-leakage flux. In this report, the way in which this saturation occurs is analyzed, and a method to account for it is developed. A chief conclusion of the paper is that the reactance saturation factor is sharply reduced if the angle between the air-gap periphery and the slope of the teeth overhang is small. For motors to be started on full voltage, this angle probably should be greater than 30 degrees, especially for rotors with closed-slot bridges. It is concluded also that the current versus voltage curve of an induction motor with locked rotor can be represented by a straight line, with slope fixed by the nonsaturating portion of the leakage reactance, that starts from a point on the zero-current axis at a voltage V0, where V0 is the voltage induced by the flux in the saturating portion of the reactance when these paths are saturated."
"Surge-impedance analog studies of lines and stations as illustrated in this paper are applicable to a wide range of powersystem surge performance problems. It is conceivable that a building-block type of analog could be constructed with plugin units designed to represent circuit elements such as a single station bay, a line entrance, or an entire bus section. Regardless of how the analog may be constructed, the method offers a low-cost reasonably simple method to obtain surge performance data on complex circuits that otherwise could only be approximated. As these approximations have, in many past cases, contained what might be termed ignorance factors, the result has been extreme conservatism in the application of overvoltage protective devices. This is evident in the widespread"
"Theoretically, the R-C decoupler network has been shown to provide both better attenuation and impedance-matching characteristics. Reactive elements alone (L-C) may give sufficient attenuation, but their low-loss characteristic is likely to alter the RI performance of the source side, returning part of the energy of some impinging pulses while passing others so that pulse fronts, tails, and amplitudes are transformed. Two sets of field tests were made to determine whether several sections of transmission line could be satisfactorily decoupled or isolated to RI, using the R-C decoupler network with the resistance shunted, for 60-cps purposes, by a relatively high inductance. Although questions regarding correct line termination and line attenuation at higher frequencies have not been answered, use of properly designed RI \"filters\" or decouplers has been shown to provide a high degree of RI isolation between sections of line. The tests were intentionally made on a single-phase line with no ground wire. Extensive field investigations would involve 3-phase conductors, plus one or two ground wires. All these conductors must be decoupled to get proper results during simultaneous testing of different line sections. From previous tests at Tidd, it has been found that heating the conductors-so as to produce in them a few degrees of temperature rise above ambient-greatly alters the RI and corona loss obtained during fog, drizzle, and damp weather in general. Current for heating cannot be drawn through the resistors of R-C decouplers."
"This paper has presented a variety of pilot-wire relaying systems. Each has its field of application which is influenced by technical and economic factors, as listed in the previous section. In many cases, particularly where tapped or multiterminal lines are concerned, combinations of the various systems will be necessary for high-speed simultaneous clearing of faults. Experience has indicated that well-designed private-wire circuits are likely to be more reliable than leased circuits. A basic reason for this is the difference in philosophy between communication and power system engineers as to what constitutes a reliable channel. However, given a specific channel, there are no significant differences in the expected reliability of the vanrous relaying systems. The reliability and security of pilotwire relaying can be improved by the following: 1. The use of fault detectors to supervise conventional a-c pilot-wire relay tripping, where their use will not compromise the relay system performance. 2. Supervision of the receiver-relay contact of the transferred-tripping schemes by fault detectors. 3. Channel-failure supervision of the trip circuit with blocking schemes. Table III gives the salient features of the pilot-wire relaying systems described in this paper."
"Index of technical subjects and participants in discussions."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"This paper describes a novel application of a resonant coaxial-stub which is very short in comparison with the shorter wavelengths in the video spectrum. As far as the principle of operation is concerned, the designation \"resonant reactance stub\" appears to be an appropriate term for the short piece of the coaxial cable used in this application. The stub provides automatic equalization at the input of a video circuit which presents a changing capacitance from time to time as a result of the incidence of additional video loops with appreciable input-capacity."
"The envelope delay characteristic is an extremely important factor in television systems. The effect of improper envelope delay is quite pronounced in color television, but a properly corrected system is also necessary for monochrome transmission if the optimum in picture quality is to be obtained. A new measuring technique has been developed which provides a low frequency reference to properly relate the envelope delay of the high and low frequency components of the video signal. The RCA BW-8A Envelope Delay Measuring Set utilizes this new technique, and is designed for television station use. This paper highlights the importance of the envelope delay characteristic and describes the new measurement technique."
"A new anti-fade type radiator for Station WOAI is described. Vertical radiation patterns are presented on the basis of computations from predicted current distributions. Measurements on a model antenna generally confirm the performance predicted by the computations. Skywave measurements using pulse techniques were made on the full scale antenna to determine the optimum tuning and the suppression of skywave signals. These measurements show skywave signals transmitted by both the E and F layers of the ionosphere. Final performance data are presented, including current distribution measurements, the vertical radiation pattern and groundwave field intensity measurements."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the front cover of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"A report on the world radio conference held in Geneva, Switzerland, during the last four months of 1959 is presented. The Conference was held under auspices of the International Telecommunication Union, the specialized agency of the United Nations which deals with radio and other telecommunication matters at international level. The organization of the conference is described, to show the mechanism by which engineers and telecommunication administrators from many nations work together to produce what amounts to international legislation in a highly technical field. The four principal work areas of the conference were: Radio spectrum allocations; frequency management techniques; definition of technical terms and establishment of technical standards; and operating regulations in the aeronautical and maritime radio services. Major decisions of interest to engineers in the United States are summarized, including new terminology which engineers will be expected to learn gradually in the years ahead."
"New equipment is proposed for simplifying the telecasting of slides and film. All 21\"x2\" slides currently in use are carried in one magazine. They are aired by momentary projection onto a storage tube which is then read out continuously while the slide is changed."
"Desirable operating characteristics and other requirements of directional transmitting antennas suitable for television broadcasting are considered. Basic limitations on directivity are imposed by long-distance propagation phenomena and reflections of signals into the weak-signal zones. Previous experience with directional antennas used for television broadcasting is reviewed. A number of appropriate antenna types are suggested."
"An educational television network using UHF transmissions from aircraft has been suggested as a means to provide improved classroom instruction to schools throughout the country. Initial airborne tests will begin in 1960. As a step in the evaluation of such a network, calculations have been made which describe the coverage from an airborne station in the presence of interference from other stations. The results should be useful in determining the equipment and channel requirements of a nation-wide network. These requirements will be compared with those necessary to provide equivalent coverage from ground-based UHF stations."
"All the complex products of the television studio plant flow to the viewing audience through the transmitting plant and as the final link in the system it has an extremely heavy responsibility. To meet this responsibility the transmitting plant must have an input and control system that can act like a nerve center; be capable of continuous quality monitoring and instant corrective action. As part of a program of plant modernization and quality improvement a completely new and simple transmitting plant input system was designed. This paper outlines the study of transmitting plant functions and responsibilities that dictated the design, and describes the circuit and operating features of the resultant system."
"Upon the introduction of special effects techniques for monochrome television in the late thirties, there evolved two philosophies concerning the proper location in the system at which the synchronizing signals should be combined with the video signals. One thesis has contended that the two signals should be united as soon as possible, preferably in the camera, while a second one has advocated the addition of the synchronizing pulses to the video information after the studio switching operations have been completed. The latter method has been so widely accepted by the networks and local stations that until now it has been almost universal in its adoption."
"Recent actions by the FCC have made it possible for privately owned and operated microwave links to be constructed by television stations. The need for remote control of the systems has brought about the development of some novel techniques for input switching, system reversal, and the transmission of control information. Hardware designed for these functions will be described."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"FM radio relay techniques have been demonstrated since the early days of FM broadcasting. Several groups of commercial FM stations have formed small, loosely knit networks with varying degrees of technical performance and acceptance by the public. Educational institutions have been slow to realize tangible benefits from FM broadcasting."
"The tunnel diode is one of the most significant solid-state electronic devices to emerge from the research laboratories since the transistor."
"The paper discusses the transmission of colour television signals according to the NTSC system. The choice of the chrominance signals, their bandwidths and of the subcarrier frequency is discussed. The consequences of the method of gamma correction and of deviations from the constant-luminance principle are considered. The significance of the statistics of the chrominance signal is pointed out."
"For transmission of the two stereo signals of a stereophonic radio broadcast, a time multiplex method operating with pulse amplitude modulation is proposed. The transmitting principle is described. The questions of compatibility, transmitter excitation, baseband width and radio band width, signal-to-noise ratio for single-channel and stereo reception, and synchronization are discussed. An account is given of the results obtained in trial workouts."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"The development of fully transistorized radio receivers has resulted in units having extremely low input power requirements. Paralleling the growth and improvement of the transistor was the development of the Silicon Solar Cell, a photovoltaic device capable of converting light energy directly into electrical power. It seems natural then, that a compatible system would evolve in which light energy would be used to supply power to transistorized radios via the mechanism of the Solar Cell."
"This paper describes the circuits which process the detected video signal and extract from it the various sub-signals required by the receiver. The transistor requirements for these circuits are discussed and recommended transistors and circuits are shown. Performance data and design considerations are included to enable the circuit designer to choose the particular features which are applicable for his requirements."
"A transistorized vertical deflection system has been developed to scan a 90-degree, 14-inch picture tube at 14 KV accelerating voltage. This system consists of two transistors in a common-emitter multivibrator to form a vertical oscillator, one transistor as a driver and one output transistor, and the system is supplied power from a 12-volt d-c source. To prevent decentering of the raster, due to the d-c component of current in the deflection-coils, the output stage is coupled to these coils by means of an isolation transformer. Feedback networks are introduced to correct for the non-linear characteristics of the transistors, and to predistort the input waveform to the output transistor in order to compensate for the non-linearity of the transformer."
"One of the principal problems involved in the design of a transistorized vertical deflection circuit is obtaining a linear deflection. Non-linearity errors are generated by the transfer characteristics of the driving network, the output transistor, and the output coupling network. The results of these non-linearity errors are cumulative and manifest themselves as deflection distortion."
"As a method of eliminating the dark line caused by the scanning spots on the TV kinescope, the spot stretch method is adopted for this experiment."
"The over-all performance obtained from a television tuner in the very-high-frequency range depends to a large extent upon the characteristics and performance of the mixer tube. In addition to its principal function of transposing the rf signal down to the if by injection of the locally generated heterodyne frequency, the mixer used in this range makes a definite contribution to the over-all gain, and has an important bearing on the requirements of the rf amplifier."
"The Nuvistor small-signal tetrode, a modern and unique development in the design and manufacture of electron tubes, has great potential for use in the intermediate-frequency stages of new television receivers. The Nuvistor provides the circuit designer with a new tube capable of superior performance in this wideband amplifier application. In addition to its high figure of merit, the Nuvistor tetrode has many other advantages pertinent to its use in television receiver circuits. This paper briefly describes the constructional features of the Nuvistor which contribute to its high performance, and gives detailed comparison of laboratory models of two- and three-stage stagger-tuned if amplifiers."
"Provides a listing of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"There has been a long term trend in Television receivers toward larger and brighter pictures, with shorter picture tubes. This hag meant higher anode voltage and ever increasing deflection power for wider angle scanning. The tubes in the scanning circuits of TV Receivers are now required to handle peak currents and voltages that are commonly associated with much larger transmitting tubes. Consequently, the reliability of the tubes in deflection circuits has been a significant factor in the over-all reliability of TV receivers."
"This paper discusses recent experiments which demonstrate the feasibility of using transistor limiters at 4.5 and 10.7 mc. The circuits are fully described and the limiting performance discussed in detail. In the past transistors have sometimes shown poor performance as limiters because of a non-linear feedback effect between the collector and base of the transistor. The circuits that are to be presented are novel in that they include provisions for eliminating this effect. The circuits to be described are fully capable of meeting the design requirements of conventional vacuum tube limiters and as such permit the design of transistorized equipment which is fully competitive with vacuum tube equipment in this respect."
"This paper is concerned with the subject of short cathode ray tube displays for television receivers. In particular, it deals with the problem of achieving satisfactory picture performance in a cathode ray tube significantly shorter than conventional types without necessitating an increase in deflection power."
"A better utilization of the power dissipated n the scanning system of television picture tubes would represent an advantage for both conventional and transistorized truly portable television receivers."
"A pneumatic ultrasonic transmitter capable of generating a high-output 40 kc. tone burst has been developed and applied to a low-cost wire-less television remote control. Advantages over the more conventional transmitters, such as the struck gong or transistorized radiators, are economy, no batteries, higher output, durable construction, and ease of tuning. Because of the higher output, fewer and less expensive components are required in the receiver. Design parameters, circuit design, and operating results are discussed."
"Adaptation of remote control to television is somewhat limited by the size of the remote control receiver. As the size of contemporary television sets decreases, space allocation becomes increasingly important."
"Design considerations involved in the development of a 19'' 114° transistorized portable T. V. receiver are given. The operating characteristics of the receiver are discussed, and some of the design problems which are unique in nature are described in detail."
"In 1958, Sylvania introduced a 5-tube 100 Ma. line of home radio tubes to aid in the reduction of heat from the original 150 Ma. ``All American Five''. Derived from the original 150 Ma. line, the new 5-tube complement featured more efficient cathodes to allow adequate performance from the 100 Ma. heaters. Sylvania now introduces a tube which combines two of the tubes from the 100 Ma. line into one envelope, providing a 4-tube string with performance capabilities similar to the 5-tube, 100 Ma. complement. This new tube, the Type 26HM8, is a triple-purpose tube serving as IF pentode, detector and 1st audio. The performance of the new 4-tube receiver is supplemented by the addition of a new improved power output tube, Type 40FR5."
"Today's 114° sweep, flattened faceplate picture tubes can reproduce images of extreme excellence in sweep linearity with considerably less energy spent, than has been commercially accepted in the past as ``high efficiency'' sweep, even with a relatively poorer linearity."
"This paper discusses an experimental MADT transistor designed for TV RF amplifier applications and a prototype tuner designed to use this transistor. All of the best techniques available at the present ``state-of-the-art'' have been utilized in the construction of these experimental units. The last few years have seen a marked reduction in the noise figure, and a marked improvement in the gain, of transistors designed for TV tuner use. The experimental unit to be discussed here represents one new step in the evolution of such devices."
"When designing an integrated AM/FM receiver, two major problems that have to be considered are: 1. The transistors employed have to perform efficiently at both AM and FM frequencies. 2. The performance of the transistor should not be appreciably affected, when switching from AM to FM operation. Until recently the application of transistors in radio receivers had to be restricted to medium and low frequency operation. The introduction of the Amperex PADT (post alloy-diffused transistors) 2N1516/0C170 and 2N1517/0C171 has permitted the design of AM/FM transistorized receivers at frequencies to 100 Mc. In the Amperex post alloy diffusion process, alloying and diffusion take place simultaneously. The transistor is built up on a piece of P-type germanium. Two small pellets are placed on the germanium. Pellet B, the base pellet, contains only an N-type impurity. Pellet E, the emitter pellet, contains a P-type and an N-type impurity. When this assembly is heated at a certain temperature, the germanium dissolves into the metal pellets until saturation is reached, and the pellet impurities diffuse into the solid germanium. However, the P-type impurity in pellet E has such a low diffusion constant, that for practical purposes it does not penetrate into the germanium. The N-type impurity in pellets E and B has a much greater diffusion constant and readily penetrates into the solid germanium to form a diffused N-type layer underneath the pellets."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"Severe requirements have to be met by the transistor as a video output amplifier. Of the few known types of video amplification - single transistor, push-pull, doubler, and phase splitter -- the phase splitter, presented in this paper, represents the advantage of consuming least power, lower voltage and power transistor ratings, higher input impedance, high voltage gain, and no phase shift problems."
"The method of compatible stereophony described is especially designed for use with the aural channel of a television broadcast system. The make-up of the multiplex signal fed to the aural transmitter includes the use of a high fidelity 50-15,OOO c.p.s. L f R signal for the principal modulation. The L - R information is transmitted by double sideband suppressed subcarrier together with a novel pilot frequency arrangement for use at the receiver for regenerating the subcarrier required for L - R detection. Only one triode is required in the receiver demultiplexer. The stereo audio system is completed by the customary dual audio amplifiers and loudspeakers."
"Stereophonic broadcasting presents a variety of problems, including compatibility, out-of-band radiation, stereo performance, distortion, signal-to-noise, receiver tuning, and receiver cost. Possible system solutions can be classified as either ``multiplicative'' or ``additive,'' depending upon whether the quadrature sidebands representative of the stereo information (L-R) are modulated by the envelope information (L+R), or are essentially independent of the envelope information, respectively. The preferred AM-FM system uses a pre-emphasized (L-R) signal to frequency modulate the carrier which is then amplitude modulated with (L+R). Stereophonic field test transmissions over Radio Station WNBC have demonstrated compatibility with existing monophonic receivers and excellent reception on stereophonic receivers of simple design."
"The development of fully transistorized television receivers is now a recognized accomplishment. While the low power demand of the circuitry in such a set has made battery operated receivers practical, the heater power requirement of the cathode-ray-tube becomes a significant portion of the total receiver requirements. It is particularly important in battery operated receivers to maintain low power requirements in order to insure economical operation and reasonable battery cycle time. Further, at the present state of the art in battery development, a 10-15% reduction in current in some receiver designs would permit the use of an Alkaline type battery, rather than a Cadmium type. This results in appreciable savings in the initial battery cost. To this end, cathode-ray-tubes have been developed which operate on a fraction of the previously required power."
"Several papers have been written describing the design and performance of transistorized AM-FM receivers. The purpose of this paper, is to discuss a completely transistorized AM-FM receiver that uses transistors whose characteristics have been optimized and specified for such a set. We will discuss the selection of transistors to be used and describe the receiver circuitry and performance."
"The 27 Mc citizen's radio service was established to provide the public with a short range, personal communication facility. It allows the public to realize benefits similar to those provided commercial users of the business services. Whereas, a station in the latter service is licensed for a specific purpose and frequency, the citizen's service provides the user with 23 frequencies and personal use within the scope of the regulations. The market for this type of equipment is essentially a consumer market with over 100,000 licenses issued and 10,000 applications being received by the FCC every month. As with any consumer product, one of the most important problems of the manufacturer is to provide the purchaser with the utmost in performance and conveniences at the lowest possible cost. Another consideration is ease of operation of the equipment. In particular, consideration should be given to young and old of both sexes in that the unit should be simple to operate."
"From the standpoint of improved TV receiver performance, the RCA nuvistor1 electron tube represents a major breakthrough, particularly with respect to features of small size, low noise, low power drain, and greater reliability. In the design assembly and processing of the nuvistor, most of the known causes of tube failure on life have been minimized or eliminated. Figure 1 is a cutaway view which shows the strong ceramic basewafer that supports the small light cylindrical electrodes. The cylindrical electrode structure permits the critical tube elements to be assembled in a simple fixture, thus making possible close-spaced electrode assembly with accuracy and uniformity. The type 6CW4 is a nuvistor tube designed for use in VHF television tuner RF amplifiers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Provides notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Man-computer symbiosis is an expected development in cooperative interaction between men and electronic computers. It will involve very close coupling between the human and the electronic members of the partnership. The main aims are 1) to let computers facilitate formulative thinking as they now facilitate the solution of formulated problems, and 2) to enable men and computers to cooperate in making decisions and controlling complex situations without inflexible dependence on predetermined programs. In the anticipated symbiotic partnership, men will set the goals, formulate the hypotheses, determine the criteria, and perform the evaluations. Computing machines will do the routinizable work that must be done to prepare the way for insights and decisions in technical and scientific thinking. Preliminary analyses indicate that the symbiotic partnership will perform intellectual operations much more effectively than man alone can perform them. Prerequisites for the achievement of the effective, cooperative association include developments in computer time sharing, in memory components, in memory organization, in programming languages, and in input and output equipment."
"This paper reports experimental results of human operator performance in a visual recognition task. The work began with a method of generating families of complex patterns to simulate certain characteristics of visual sensor displays, such as radar and infrared returns. The experimental effort was directed toward establishing criteria for predicting human operator performance in a map matching task. The operators' task was to recognize which of four patterns presented simultaneously with a reference pattern belonged to the reference pattern family. The measure of performance was the time in seconds taken by the operator to make a selection. Response times were more rapid when the reference pattern was less complex than the comparison than when the reference pattern was the more complex. Analysis of the display characteristics led to the selection of four physical measures to be used in predicting operator performance. These measures-pattern length, pattern density, and two measures of pattern complexity-correlated highly with response time, were not highly intercorrelated, and were applicable to natural sensor returns. The four measures were found to account for a high degree of the total variance. Regression equations were derived which predict performance from known values of the four measures."
"In a previous study, it was found that tracking error in one coordinate of a two-dimensional tracking system was affected by the dynamics used in the other coordinate. In particular, tracking performance progressively deteriorated as the dynamics in the two coordinates became more dissimilar. The present study seeks to extend these findings by determining how the introduction of quickening into one coordinate of a second-order, two-coordinate tracking system would affect the performance in the unquickened coordinate. In the light of the previous study, it might be expected that quickening one coordinate would degrade the performance of the other. On the other hand, the simplification of the tracker's task induced by quickening might effect an improvement in performance."
"This paper reports the results of studies in a series concerning the characteristics of push-button keysets that people can operate quickly, accurately and conveniently. The studies investigated push-button arrangements, button top and lettering characteristics, and push-button force-displacement characteristics. Considerable latitude exists in the design of keysets if only keying performance is considered. The preference judgments were somewhat more selective, particularly for the force-displacement characteristics of the button mechanism."
"An experiment was conducted to investigate the effect of adjusting display gain upon man-machine system performance in a simple aided tracking system. Gain was varied in two ways: electrically by changing amplification, and optically by changing the distance from the scope to the eye. Manipulation of gain by each method produced similar changes in system performance. Over the ranges studied, system error decreased as display gain was increased. This result agrees with predictions based upon closed-loop control system theory and suggests the feasibility of including additional experimental variables within the theory."
"In order to aid human factor scientists to be aware of books of interest to them among the everincreasing nuimber being published, reviews of several current titles will be included in each issue of the PGHFE TRANSACTIONS. Some of the most recent acquisitions of the Human Engineering Information and Analysis Service Project, Tufts University, appear in the abstracts section here. The annotations accompanying the cited references are intended to convey the general content of the article or document and are not intended to summarize any specific data, findings, etc., existing in the individual documents."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Lists the institutions that support this publication."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Man's participation in limited space travel is imminent. Attention must be focused now upon the nature and extent of his participation in future manned space systems. It is imperative that the human not be assigned functions as an afterthought. Rather, functions must be assigned in a manner that will optimize system performance with respect to the mission requirements. This paper describes a practical methodology for determining the human operator functions within the context of a specific mission. A space ferry mission is used to illustrate the approach."
"A number of radar steering display designs utilizing the moving-airplane principle were compared with the standard Air Force moving-horizon display in a series of simulator experiments. Significant improvement in tracking performance for military pilots with and without prior fire-control experience was found for a display which incorporated rate feedback and pursuit tracking features in addition to the moving-aircraft principle. Results of smaller-scale tests with naive and relatively inexperienced subjects are also reported."
"An experiment was conducted using a flight simulator to determine the relative ease with which pilots can learn to use four types of airborne fire-control system steering displays. The four displays compared were 1) a moving-horizon display with a space-stabilized error dot, 2) a moving-horizon display with an aircraft-stabilized error dot, 3) a compensatory type moving-airplane display, and 4) a pursuit type moving-airplane display. Of the four displays, the moving-airplane types were found to yield significantly smaller firing errors and require less learning as compared to either moving-horizon type display. Furthermore, the pursuit type of moving-airplane display yielded learning performance and terminal performance error levels superior to any of the other displays."
"The aim of this study was to improve maintenance of electronic equipment by determining what information to place on the equipment and developing techniques for its display. Trips to various communications installations were made in order to examine equipment, observe maintenance activities, examine manuals, and interview personnel. Detailed data were collected showing the marked variation between observed test point readings and those called for in maintenance manuals. Recommendations were developed concerning information to be displayed on prime electronic equipment, covering 1) designation of functional groupings, 2) identification of signal paths, 3) identification and sequence for using test points, and 4) presentation of historical information for each test point. These recommendations were evaluated by incorporating them on an oscilloscope; comparing this ``coded'' scope with an identical uncoded one showed that trouble-shooting time was reduced on the average to approximately one-half that for the uncoded equipment."
"System requirements were developed for a minimum cost and fidelity simulator appropriate for the study of driving behavior. The simulator is composed of three sub-systems: a pulse-width modulation recording and reproducing unit to provide road geometry, a vehicle dynamics computer to solve the automobile motion equations, and a cathode-ray tube display that provides a representation of the visual information required by the driver."
"In situations in which the human operator is asked to transmit as much information as he can, it has been observed that the amount of information he transmits varies with the number of variable aspects of the source and the number of physical dimensions used in coding. A simple logarithmic relation is postulated between a measure of these coding properties, called coordinality, and the information transmitted by the human operator. Many problems remain, however."
"In order to aid human factors scientists to be aware of books of interest to them among the everincreasing number being published, reviews of several current titles will be included in each issue of the PGHFE TRANSACTIONS. Some of the most recent acquisitions of the Human Engineering Information and Analysis Service Project, Tufts University, appear in the abstracts section herein. The annotations accompanying the cited references are intended to convey the general content of the article or document and are not intended to stimmArize any specific data, findings, etc., existing in the individual documents. The code information (F, G, I, T, R) relates to the existence of figures, graphs, illustrations, tables, and references contained in the individual documents. The number of references included in the document is indicated after the R code."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Notice to Advertisers."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A lamp is inserted into an optical system consisting of a reflector, an aperture, a lens, and a screen. In general, the lamp filament is not located at the exact spatial position which would provide optimum intensity and uniformity on the screen. The lamp is translated along an axis of a Cartesian coordinate system, first past the point at which a maximum screen illumination is observed, then back to that point where the lamp movement is stopped. The above procedure is repeated sequentially along the second and third coordinate axes. The third maximum point corresponds to the optimum position for that lamp."
"A new analog control line was recently introduced by Hagan Chemicals & Controls, Inc. This process control line, known as the PowrMag line, was the result of about ten years of electronic development. Many factors influenced its design but the paramount considerations were 1) reliability, 2) flexibility, and 3) simplicity. Rapid advancement in improved core materials and winding techniques provided magnetic operational amplifiers of more than adequate performance. This magnetic circuitry potted in steel provided the utmost in reliability. Flexibility of design came only after the limitations of earlier equipment lines were studied in detail. The flexibility of the operational amplifier was time proven. It was, therefore, adopted for this new line. Plug-in passive elements, toper pin interconnections, and the use of a system patchboard were unique features adopted. Simplicity was achieved by the adoption of the universally-accepted operational amplifier approach. This, coupled with the black box form of the magnetic operational amplifier, provided for easy instrument technician training. These were only a few of the many factors which influenced the design of this new equipment line."
"Laboratory and pilot-plant experimentation, performed to find means of improving a product or process, must often be supplemented by trials on the prototype equipment. Evolutionary Operation, first proposed by Dr. George Box, is a statistical method of conducting such trials without interference with routine production. By slight but deliberate variation of a few of the influential factors at a time, the process is gradually moved in the direction of an optimum. Weight of evidence for the improvement is built up by repeating each set of experimental conditions a great number of times. Since it results in a movement toward optimum conditions without disrupting normal production, Evolutionary Operation can be considered as a permanent plan for plant operation."
"Two quite different bases for establishing an on-line computer control system for a manufacturing process have been described in the literature. These are the ``exploratory'' or ``teleological'' approach and the ``predictive'' approach employing a mathematical model of the process. Both methods, when applicable to a particular plant installation, lead to considerably improved process control. In an effort to clarify the kind of situation in which predictive control is to be preferred, the major criteria are presented and described in general terms. Emphasis is placed on the requirements of plants in the chemical, petrochemical, petroleum and similar industries. The elements of a predictive control system for a chemical-type plant are outlined."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A computer system, the RCA 501, has been designed to meet the needs of commercial data processing. The equipment utilizes transistors as active elements, ferrite cores for high-speed memory, magnetic tape as primary bulk and working store, and built-in and programmable accuracy control. Input-output equipment includes paper tape (in), card (in and out), and line printer (out). The language of the computer system exploits variable-word and variable-message-length for efficiency. The instruction complement is designed to facilitate the programming of data-processing tasks, taking advantage of the variable word and message and of built-in simultaneous operation provisions. The system is adaptable in size to small and large applications."
"The system for scanning and logging operational data at Sterlington Electric Station is described. This advanced system includes the sensors, scanning equipment, analog-to-digital converters, data storage, computer, and various output presentations. Operating experience and problems associated with incorporation of the system into normal plant operation are described."
"Automatic equipment for production-line testing of power capacitors provides advantages in speed and accuracy over previous manual testing. The equipment described provides means for automatic part handling, test selection, data collection and interpretation, and test results recording."
"To assure the continuing satisfactory operation of a complex bombing-navigation and missile guidance system, extensive efforts must be expended in the testing process, which depends heavily upon the test system. In this paper, the testing process and test systems are treated in analytical fashion. The test system is divided into basic functional elements that are universal to all test systems. These functional elements, or subsystems, are then integrated into a theoretical automatic multipurpose test system; boundary conditions imposed on this general system would lead to any special-purpose test system. The theoretical model created is useful: 1) in designing any test system where boundary conditions are imposed; 2) in evaluating and standardizing existing and proposed test systems for a specific application; and 3) in extending available techniques of analysis in the fields of communication, computing, and control systems to the important, integrated system testing and test systems."
"An electron accelerator for industrial use has been developed which provides improved efficiency and reduced cost of operation. The design incorporates a unique dc accelerating voltage supply consisting of cascaded rectifiers driven in parallel from an RF oscillator. Data are given for equipment rated up to 3 mev, 30 kw."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A control system using multiaperture magnetic cores of the transfluxor type provides a reliable method of commanding paper advance and auxiliary functions in a photographic printer. The transfluxors are operated in a mode which permits larger variations in drive control pulses and which is less sensitive to extraneous signals. Coupling to the mechanical system is done via thyratrons to clutches and relays. Advantages over a purely relay or flip-flop logic for this control purpose are discussed briefly."
"A self-triggering spark gap has been developed for use as a simple ``crowbar'' at the output of a high-voltage dc power supply to protect the load in case of load failure. The system consists of three spheres arranged in a triggered spark gap system, with the center sphere maintained at a fixed potential with respect to the other two spheres (one at ground, one at high voltage) under steady-state conditions. When the load fails, capacitive coupling drives the triggering sphere to a voltage that causes break-down between the high-voltage sphere and the triggering sphere, with subsequent firing of the entire protective gap system. Advantages over thyratrons for this ``crowbar'' application include the following: 1) the voltage rating is unlimited, 2) the current rating is of the order of tens of thousands of amperes, 3) reliability is greater than that of a thyratron, due to lack of filament supply requirements, auxiliary triggering circuits, etc., 4) less costly than the thyratron circuit."
"Techniques for improving the accuracy and safety of computer-controlled systems are presented. The scope of the paper is limited to those techniques which are being used successfully in operating computer-controlled processes."
"Machine tool drives, used in conjunction with numerical positioning, can generally be classified into two categories; some form of servo drive or an open-loop drive such as a multiple gear train and on-off clutches. Dual-purpose synchronization will permit the use of either form of machine drive with the same numerical control equipment. By time-sharing one clutch drive system between two axes of a machine, it is possible to approach the performance of a separate machine drive for each axis at the cost of a single drive."
"A system which measures the absorption of the gamma radiations of Cobalt-60 in various materials is described. A thickness measurement device has been included in the system so that density (or specific gravity) of the sample materials may be automatically calculated. Accuracies of ± 0.03 per cent for the specific gravity measurement are obtained."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"Consideration of substitution techniques for reliable design is usually based upon statistical independence of failures of operating and spare components. A method of design of a reliable system, consisting of many operating and spare components, for the case of statistical relation between failures of operating and spare components is considered. In a number of cases more reliable operation of systems can be achieved by providing substituting reservation, instead of permanent switching, to a spare (or ``hot'' reserve) component. Effective usage of a single spare component substituted for several operating components is considered."
"The contributing responsibility and a system for controlling component reliability as part of the procurement function are discussed. The system, which is particularly applicable to large-scale procurement, consists of three major controls: 1) Component Vendor Approval Procedure-a tool for obtaining and documenting bona fide sources capable of supplying components to specified time and quality requirements. 2) Vendor Delivery Performance-a purchasing control for maintaining and upgrading performance from selected vendors. 3) Vendor Quality Rating-a quality control tool to aid purchasing in maintaining and upgrading quality of products from selected vendors."
"This paper introduces several new concepts which are applicable to the problem of diagnosis of equipment failures. Following the definitions of an equipment, an element of the equipment, and the model of a test, a general diagram of a testing procedure is developed. The testing diagram is constructed in such a way that the various tests needed and the probability of failure of the elements are readily incorporated. While it is found that a completely general testing diagram becomes quite complicated even when the equipment under consideration is not intricate, a major simplification is obtained by introducing a simplified diagram with suitably restricted tests. This simplified testing diagram may be used repeatedly in order to find all the faulty elements of the equipment. With reference to the testing diagram, it is possible to compute the minimum average cost of diagnosing the equipment. This appears to be the most useful measure of the efficiency of a test procedure. The order of magnitude of this optimization problem is discussed and solutions for two special cases are obtained by analogy with an optimum coding problem."
"In the preceding paper, a model of a sequential diagnostic test procedure is developed for application to fault location in electronic equipment. The average cost of diagnosis is defined and the problem of finding procedures of minimum average cost is solved for two special cases. In the present paper, the ratio of the average information gained by performing a given test to the cost of the test is introduced as a figure of merit for the test. Repeated application of this figure of merit to choose successive tests results in a systematic way of constructing efficient sequential test procedures. The procedures so constructed are compared with known optimum procedures for several special cases as a means of evaluating the information theory approach. For some special cases the true optimum is obtained; in others, the information theory test procedures are only slightly less efficient than the optimum. The advantage of the information theory approach lies in the fact that it results in a simple systematic way of constructing efficient test procedures even in the general case for which the true optimum solution has not been obtained by other means."
"Electronic components are frequently connected in parallel as a measure to increase reliability. Whether the result of such a parallel connection results in an increase or a decrease in reliability, and the amount of such increase or decrease, is a function of the open-circuit failure probability and the short-circuit failure probability. Equations are derived which permit a determination of the increase or decrease of reliability when components are connected in parallel. Some curves are included to aid the circuit designer in this determination."
"A method is described for predicting circuit performance to the extent that it is dependent on part performance. The basis for the prediction is the performance of parts as measured at test points fixed by the part specifications. Implicit in this method is the assumption that the distribution of part performance at the test points can be predicted from consideration of the specifications. Such an assumption is necessary to any attempted prediction of this nature. An empirical equation giving circuit performance in terms of part performance as measured at the test points is assumed. The exact form of the equation is determined experimentally, by means of regression analysis of data consisting of sets of measurements of breadboard models of the circuit. The empirical equation is then used mathematically to calculate the distribution of the circuit performance from the assumed distributions of part performance. The method has been applied successfully to predict the laboratory performance of an ac amplifier and a telemetering oscillator. In principle, the method can be extended to the prediction of equipment or system performance."
"This paper introduces a new method of using redundancy to obtain reliable operation of electronic circuits. Switching circuits are used as examples to illustrate the method. A comparison is made between the majority logic method and the averaging method proposed in this paper. The comparison shows that the averaging method should provide a greater circuit reliability than the majority method if the components of each circuit have the same reliability."
"Each piece of military electronic equipment passes through various phases in its normal life cycle. These are planning, design and development, pilot production, manufacture, transportation, storage, operation and maintenance. Each of these stages is replete with opportunities for the introduction of unreliabilities. This paper points out the pitfalls which may be encountered and makes specific recommendations to avoid these so that the full amount of potential reliability may be realized in the final equipment."
"The purpose of this article is to demonstrate the need for a realistic look at the mission success potential of our complex weapons systems and the way to obtain a large increase in mission success potential at much lower costs."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Prior to the mid Forties most electron tubes were production-and quality-tested on an attributes (go-no-go) basis only. Quality-sample sizes were moderate and statistical paper work was at a minimum. Since that time quality-control testing has increased by leaps and bounds under the pressure for high reliability, performance, and uniformity. These factors have increased the quality-control work load to the point where an appreciable portion of the tube manufacturing cost is involved in the quality-control testing and statistical evaluation procedures. In an effort to hold down the rapidly mounting costs of quality testing and data evaluation, to improve operator accuracy, and to reduce the number of tests, a test set has been developed which performs many of the tests automatically. The set provides digital data output for each test on each tube in punched tape, reads out the tape, and prints a copy of the punched data. The punched tape is then fed to a computer which analyzes the data for the entire sample and prints out the answers for those statistical factors such as lot means, standard deviations, per cent deltas, etc., required for the attributes-variables acceptance criteria for lot acceptance. The test set is designed to perform those static and dynamic tests normally performed on a Vacuum-Tube-Bridge test console. It has twenty test positions and will measure and record ten different characteristics on dual section tubes. Provisions are included for manually feeding test data from other equipments into the punched tape for analysis by the computer as desired."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This report describes the Defense Department's increasing concern regarding electronic equipment reliability during the period 1942-1959. It discusses the establishment of the joint Army-Navy Vacuum Tube Development Committee (VTDC) in June, 1943, and VTDC's successor, the Panel on Electron Tubes (PET) in October, 1946. Also described is the formation of the Ad Hoc Group on Reliability of Electronic Equipment in December, 1950, the Advisory Group on Reliability of Electronic Equipment (AGREE) in August, 1952, the Advisory Group on Electron Tubes (AGET) in March, 1954, the Advisory Group on Electron Parts (AGEP) in June, 1954, and the Ad Hoc Committee for Guided Missile Reliability (ACGMR) in March, 1957. The interrelation of the tasks and findings of these organizations are discussed."
"In recent papers,1,2 optimal diagnostic procedures are presented for some special cases. In this paper, we present an optimal diagnostic procedure under a different restriction, i.e., we consider equipment in which elements can only be tested one at a time, or all at once. Optimality is in the sense of minimum expected cost."
"A new method for opening hermetically-sealed metal cases is described. Instead of mechanically sawing or cutting the metal, an electrochemical process is used. Two methods are described, static electrolysis (anodic dissolution) and jet electrolysis. Examples of the application of these methods to the ``autopsy'' of failed transistors with 6-mil Kovar shells and relays with 15-mil brass shells is shown."
"Brulé, Johnson, and Kletsky1 have developed a technique based on information theory which leads to highly efficient procedures for diagnosing equipment failures. This paper demonstrates by means of a practical example the validity of this technique. In addition, the feasibility of the approach is shown and the procedure to be used in its implementation is outlined in detail. The paper concludes with a general discussion including comments on the generality of the technique, the possibility of machine computation, and possible areas of application."
"Advertisement."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"An analytical method is presented for determining the size of the research budget and allocating it among competing projects. A stochastic model is utilized. The over-all profit-maximization of the firm is used as a framework. A hypothetical example is given to illustrate the method."
"Data were gathered on the research expenditures, sales, and profits of a sample of large firms which had been conducting organized research for 25 years or more. A linear relationship is hypothesized for explaining the size of the research budget. Several factors influencing the size of the research budget are examined. A regression model is developed for expressing the returns on R and D expenditures, with lags up to six years. Suggestions are made for the application and possible uses of the method by an individual firm."
"Research and Development on complex systems requires experimentation with the organizational form of the technical effort. Three levels of system design are distinguished-the set, the set of sets, and the set of sets of sets. The evolution of complex system design is described. Five organizational modes are examined and evaluated. The crossbar mode is suggested as best for large scale system projects and is described in detail."
"The new researcher undergoes a learning experience in the laboratory, in which he attempts to relate his technical competence to the needs of his employer. More than one hundred members of ten industrial laboratories were interviewed in order to discover the kinds of things the new researcher learns, the problems he encounters, etc., as he first adapts himself to the milieu of the industrial laboratory. Emphasis is placed, in the analysis of these data, on the factors influencing the kinds of ideas he produces and how he handles ideas."
"Until recently, theoretical discussions and careful conceptual analyses have been rare in the literature on creativity. Studies of the organizational and environmental factors affecting the creativity of scientists have also been rare, but are becoming more common. This paper reports on the factors considered important in influencing creativity in a number of research laboratories. The data were gathered through interviews with research directors, administrators, and scientists. Five factors are identified and analyzed."
"This paper contains preliminary results of a questionnaire survey among engineering managers in a large electronics company. Engineering managers are divided into three levels and compared with respect to their degree of business and professional orientation, their conception of authority, and their understanding of the problems of nonsupervisory engineers."
"The structure of an R & D project is described in terms of an Effort-Distribution Array. A logistic model is presented for the cumulative times series of effort devoted to a project, and problems of using such curves for prediction are discussed. A set of rules is given, which, with the aid of computer simulation, can be used to generate a project schedule. The consequences of several combinations of rules and restrictions are examined."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"A model is presented which permits an analysis of management policy relative to the utilization of engineering manpower. The model is derived by considering the flow of engineering personnel through an organization and the cost attributable to the flow. Analysis of the model indicates that costs will be minimized where engineering policies allow a smooth flow of manpower through the organization. Relative to the cost considered, smooth flow can most readily be achieved by a rather unorthodox organizational structure-the inverted pyramid. Since other costs normally prevent the use of inverted pyramids, another method of approaching the smooth flow idea is explored, in particular, the tactic of varying the time that engineers spend in grade."
"The moral values associated with scientific research were studied by means of interviews with 57 academic researchers of faculty status. The areas examined were freedom in research, impartiality, suspension of judgment until sufficient evidence is at hand, absence of bias, diffusion of information, and group loyalty. Two dimensions of creativity were measured in the respondents: rate of publication and strength of motivation toward research as judged by peers. Neither of these measures was significantly related to acceptance of the classical position in any of the six areas of value. It is concluded that the classical morality of science is not associated to any important degree with productive research."
"A study was made of the bidding experience of Stromberg-Carlson in the military electronics field over the past six years. The methods of analysis and presentation are reviewed. A model of a military marketing organization is developed which can be used to measure the effectiveness of the various components of the marketing effort on a long-term basis."
"Previous discussions concerning group contracting have been presented from a group leader viewpoint. The need was felt to view the group contracting arrangements from the associate contractor viewpoint. The experiences gained by over two and one-half years association in a group contract arrangement as an associate contractor are described. Areas of concern not normally encountered in a conventional contracting arrangement are described for prospective group contracting participants."
"Current criteria for the evaluations of technical library performance are examined. Data are lacking for establishing standards based on what the better libraries are doing. Guides are presented for evaluating the quality of book and journal collections, the adequacy of reference service, the library's effectiveness in meeting requests, and the impact of a technical library on its associated research laboratory."
"Currently, the ``systems approach'' is more an attitude than a plan of action. The method and concepts of science can help this field achieve the latter status. A system is defined, and current practice in systems engineering is described. The methods of science are described and suggested as a guide for the systems approach. Some of the tools and concepts used in systems work are described."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"Analysis of design engineering functions has suggested the practicality of determining the normal degree of their occurrence by means of supervisor samplings of the elements of work being done during representative work periods. Such sampling data can be analyzed to determine 1) the intrinsic time-out or job fatigue trends; 2) elemental work profiles for each representative work category; 3) productivity indices for each organization or any appropriate section thereof. The sampling data may also be correlated with time charges to projects and subdivisions thereof to determine time standards. Thus analysis of the sampling data and correlative statistics may provide bases for improved control of project costs, personnel characteristics, and productivity. Data derived from an experimental application of these concepts to a sizable civil engineering organization are presented."
"The techniques described in this paper to control research, development and engineering projects are adaptations of those developed and well-proven methods used for controlling manufacturing processes. To complete an engineering project to meet established specifications, within allotted funds and in the scheduled time, it is necessary to program the various phases and requirements of the project in great detail. The use of a project schedule chart as a formal tool of project management increases the project engineer's ability to quantitatively evaluate project status. Information about the progress made toward meeting the project goals can be used in a closed-loop system to initiate corrective action when there are deviations from scheduled plans. The project schedule chart as a basic source of information has other applications in the management of an engineering organization. For example, the tabulation of schedule chart data by means of punched cards facilitates rapid evaluation of the quantitative needs for manpower, funds and facilities within the organization. Evaluation of project performance through simplified analysis of project activity at all levels of management directs attention to ``problem'' projects. Data processing, including coding and tabulation of data, implements control of the projects, the project group, the system groups, the laboratories and the common support activities which, when taken altogether, make up an engineering department."
"R and D projects are viewed as networks of inter-related events to be achieved in proper ordered sequence. This paper generalizes some earlier work. The present paper takes cognizance of technical performance and scarce resources as well as time. By means of the analysis presented herein, it is possible to find the optimal combination of time, technical performance level, and resources for any project."
"Surveys of spending for Research and Development have been undertaken by the Office of Special Studies, National Science Foundation, for several years. In this report, the latest figures on industrial R and D spending are presented for 1958. Comparisons between 1953 and 1958 indicate an increase of 229 per cent in federally financed R and D, 64 per cent in company financed R and D, and a total increase of 128 per cent. Basic research in industry has increased 96 per cent."
"A sample of the top scientists and engineers in a large government laboratory were interviewed in depth about the role of the Government laboratory in the total American defense structure. Six categories of answers were obtained, indicating a range of roles which are not mutually exclusive."
"A decision regarding the best scope and depth of effort is often difficult to make in writing proposals for study contracts. A model is presented for systematizing this decision making. The factors considered include: contract price, various components of cost, and profit. A ``potential performance capability'' is defined, and its use is illustrated. An example of the suggested method of analysis is given."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides an overview of the technical articles and features presented in this issue."
"An application of the recently-developed PERT system is described. Techniques for use in planning technical objectives for a project are discussed. The concept of design review is related to the setting of objectives. Time and cost estimating for program planning and control are discussed. The experience of one organization with the initiation and development of the PERT system is described. The need for gaining acceptance by the working engineer is stressed."
"Product assurance is concerned with economy, performance, and reliability. It provides the tools and techniques with which the project engineer may design economically optimal systems and equipment, and with which he may allocate his own efforts economically. Product assurance puts \"reliability\" into a realistic economic perspective. This report outlines the problems of growing product complexity, earlier obsolescence, and design immaturity, and recommends specific feedback loops to maximize maturity at each design phase. A centralized Assurance group digests and organizes data from all sources and develops design \"tools,\" providing a broad service to design engineers. Management is provided a Product Assurance Report showing progressive cost reduction and reliability improvement, both in terms of annual savings to the product user."
"The organization and function of a Research Services Laboratory are described. This laboratory groups together service functions that require research caliber personnel and centralizes major items of capital research equipment. Advantages to both the Research Services Laboratory and to the rest of the research function are obtained by having this activity report to the Director of Research. By means of a project order numbering system, accounting for these services can be handled very simply from the user's point of view while adequate accountability and control are maintained. Service groups do well to avoid a primary responsibility for administering government contracts since this would limit the availability of services to the research staff. Good administration in a research service group calls for striking the proper balance between overload and idleness, between short- and long-range jobs and between requested and self-generated research. Personnel relations differ from those in non-service groups and the recruiting problem is greater. At the same time, Research Services is an excellent assignment for developing management talent. It is important that a Research Services Laboratory grow with the activities it supports, and there are a number of ways in which expansion into new service roles might occur with profit."
"The findings discussed in this report are drawn from a study of student backgrounds and values at a school of science and engineering. The results indicate many similarities in background for students in either science or engineering and some interesting differences when comparisons are made to certain liberal arts colleges. Aspirations and expectations that lie behind an initial commitment to a career in science and engineering are discussed, and contrasts among the values held by students in the various curricula are emphasized."
"An interview study was made in the central research laboratory of a large electronics company on problems in recruiting and integrating scientists into the laboratory. The recruiting procedure is described. The mutual expectations of recruit and organization are discussed. Several patterns of career development are traced, including: dedication to scientific research; initial orientation toward administration within the company; later interest in administration after a successful scientific career due to 1) financial and prestige attractions, or 2) competitive pressure in research."
"A case study was made of the way in which economic analyses were carried out on research and development projects in a medium-sized company. The flow diagram for a typical research project is presented. Interviews with key executives in the company and the analysis of a number of discontinued or unsuccessful projects provided data on who made what economic decisions during the life of a project. Several gaps were found in the decision-making procedure and recommendations were made for improvement. A number of new management control forms were developed and adopted by the company."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in this issue of the publication."
"The affiliate plan, established by the IRE Board of Directors, enables individuals who are not members of IRE, but who have an interest in the field of engineering management, to join PGEM. Research administrators and social scientists interested in the research process especially are welcomed as affiliates. Admission as an affiliate requires only membership in a professional society affiliated with PGEM. Current affiliates are listed below. Affiliates will pay a smaller fee than the regular members of IRE-PGEM and will have all the privileges of PGEM except that of holding elective office. Affiliates will receive the IRE TRANSACTIONS ON ENGINEERING MANAGEMENT. PGEM hopes that the affiliates will help accelerate the interdisciplinary exchange of information in this rapidly advancing area of research-on-research."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The application of dynamic systems analysis, essential for the design of controlled missiles and of man-made automatic control systems of all kinds, to the control systems within the human organism, is beginning to bear fruit in medical science. These organic control systems, which are part of the living process, generally far surpass any man-made systems in subtlety and ingenuity. Their exploration in terms of feedback control theory is highly instructive both to the medical scientist and to the control engineer, since these systems generally display a quality and perfection of control design several orders of magnitude greater than the human mind can now conceive. Some aspects of the control of the human heart rate are presented here. Normal and irregular respiration widely changes the rate of the heart from beat to beat. The mathematical laws describing this behavior were derived from analog computer simulation. On the analog computer a mathematical model of the dynamics of the processes involved was created. This was achieved through the use of dynamic data obtained from experiments designed by the help of control theory. These mathematical laws are useful for understanding the operation of the system concerned, and especially valuable for predicting the existence of hitherto unknown structural and organizational relationships, which can be confirmed experimentally. The electronic analog computer, being fed information about the respiration of the subject, in the form of an electric signal proportional to chest circumference, is able to calculate the timing of the heart beat from beat to beat."
"A phonocardiographic system has been designed and built using standard units of known frequency characteristics. The system is calibrated, as the relative and absolute intensity of the signal can be computed from the records' amplitude, given the conversion factor of the transducer and the degree of amplification in decibels. The system is standardized. It allows the spectrum to be scanned in bands of 1 octave of 3-db attenuation (therefore ideally flat) with the low-cut-off frequency coinciding with the nominal frequency. A 36 db per octave attenuation for the high-pass section is suggested for the selective recording of the high-frequency vibration of low intensity. Representative phonocardiographic tracings are presented."
"A general discussion of the application of nuclear and electron paramagnetic resonance to determination of blood flow velocities in intact humans is discussed. The feasibility has been proven using mice. The system of measurement essentially utilizes paramagnetic (nonradioactive) tracers. One simple tracing scheme which has been employed experimentally is to saturate the protons in the blood stream and detect the density of these protons as variations occur due to flow. By this means the flow velocity is readily measured. A discussion of paramagnetic resonance theory precedes the discussion of the biological applications."
"A power amplifier designed for use as a biological stimulator is described. It is driven by a dc voltage or a pulse generator with an amplitude of 50 volts. The output power of up to 250 volts and 100 ma is precisely controlled. The rise time is less than 5 μsec. A dual-channel version whose outputs may be independently controlled and mixed is also described. The circuit for the +400 volts and -300 volts regulated power supplies is shown."
"Some of the potential advantages of computer aids to medical data processing are: making available to the physician quantitative methods in areas relating to data analysis and differential diagnosis; assisting in the evaluation of the best alternative courses of action during stages of the diagnostic testing processes; making easily available to the physician reference to the most current information about new preventive measures, and diagnostic and therapeutic techniques; and periodic recording and evaluating of individual physiologic norms for the more sensitive determination of an individual's health trend relative to disease prevention."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Several tonometers are described which are simultaneously faster more accurate and more gentle than previous forms. They are easier to use and more convenient to read, and do not generally require anesthesia since their indication is recorded a fraction of a second after they contact the eye. Their principle is such that they can be used while covered with a sterilizable rubber film, thus minimizing risk of infection and clogging of the instrument. New systems of tonography are also described. The factors which allow readings by a component insensitive to variations in corneal curvature, bending forces, tissue tension and surface tension of tears suggest other biological applications such as blood pressure monitoring through intact vessels. A discussion of a number of electronic motion and pressure transducers is included."
"This paper is to supplement last year's summary on swallowable radio transmitters. Included are general comments on procedure as well as specific items such as temperature sensitivity, the use of tunnel diodes in pH measurement, the use of multiple transmitters, and the design of a nondirectional receiving antenna system. The latter not only simplifies unattended recording in some cases but also helps in relaying the signal from a small booster transmitter carried by the subject. The frequency shift needed in relaying action is here a frequency doubling provided by suitable nonlinear receiver circuits."
"Various probes are described that will amplify the sound of contact with any hard object in the body and thus signify its presence. One of the most useful forms consists of a sound transducer that clamps to the handle of any pair of forceps so that the surgeon knows when he is grasping a kidney stone or gall stone or other hard body. Also mentioned are active probes in which loading of a bilateral sound transducer, which is being driven by an external electrical circuit, causes an indication of contact as an apparent change in impedance. These forms seem especially sensitive when fitted into the end of a catheter."
"An electronic X-ray system is described which allows more information to be obtained than do the usual radio-graphic methods which lump together the effects of different wavelengths. It gives high contrast images and allows otherwise unnoticeable detail to be detected with a quantitative evaluation of composition. The system has been used to visualize a normal thyroid and analyze it for normal iodine distribution, though a thyroid gland cannot usually be seen at all in a radiograph. An analogy with a new electrocardiographic method is noted."
"A television link with nonlinear circuits aids X-ray movie production by allowing concentration on a small brightness range, and dose can be determined by the detail to be observed rather than by film properties. A continuously-moving-film camera viewing a single line on the kinescope, or a video tape recorder, need lose the effect of no interacting quantum. The frame rate aspect is considered and a systematic exposure procedure is given. An X-ray beam monitor is also described. The probable course of certain future developments is given as well as suggestions for the best use of existing detectors."
"An image in an electron microscope is made to move in response to manipulation of a switch if the image is slightly out of focus. Because of the sensitivity of the eye to motion, even low contrast or dim images can thus be focused very accurately by noting lack of motion. This method is helpful in all cases, but with certain specimen types or with a biased electron gun it is essential. Construction information is given for a magnetic beam deflection unit that has performed well in regular use for over ten years. The electron optics of certain corrections are discussed briefly."
"Many of the observed properties of a nerve are summed up by noting that it appears to be a cascaded series of bistable elements. This implies an electrical negative resistance property which is observed to be tetrode-like, as opposed to arc-like. A time dependent element in the regenerative feedback loop is involved in such things as anode-break stimulation. New nerve analogs are suggested by this view, and the common factor in previous ones is seen. Many excitable plant and animal cells show these properties. A brief general discussion of negative resistance is given. No new biological data is presented."
"Switching or triggering in certain nonlinear circuits having two stable states is studied in graphic detail. The minimum and maximum pulse requirements are discussed and some of the general ideas of bistability considered. A convenient technique for studying the response of circuits, apparently in slow motion, is described. A classroom demonstration relating to nerve impulse generation is given."
"The experiments reported in this paper served three major purposes: 1) They defined that property of an electrical discharge upon which the ability to stimulate living tissue depends, in particular the ability to produce a saturation stimulation of the heart. 2) They demonstrated that intense condenser discharges through the chest need not produce any deleterious effects. 3) They showed that one can produce defibrillation of the ventricles of a canine heart, through the closed chest, by such a discharge."
"Some electrical and radiation hazards which are present in the laboratory are discussed. A constant reminder concerning some of the common dangers is worthwhile since even experienced workers may forget about them and injury or death can result."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The physical, chemical, and optical properties of various substances in the living cell, fundamental for their microspectrographic analysis, will be described. Some limtis of the present techniques will be discussed."
"Ultraviolet (UV) absorption spectra of intracellular structures are an aid in the interpretation of the biological effects of UV radiation and are useful for the identification of the substances localized in the structures. Micro-assays of the total amount of a UV absorbing compound in a structure enable a study of the metabolism of that compound to be made in reference to the function of the structure. Both types of analysis are possible in the spectral range between 230 and 300 mμ where the absorption peaks of the biologically important nucleic acids (260 mμ) and proteins (280 and less than 250 mμ) lie. The components of a microspectrophotometer, source of radiation, monochromator, microscope optics, and detector are discussed with reference to the UV. The main restriction on the design of an instrument is imposed by the necessity to measure the absorption of an extremely small area (of the order of one micron in diameter) in the specimen. High intensity sources, optical components with high transmission values, and sensitive detectors are required. The application of the method to a study of nucleic acid metabolism in chromosomes is outlined. The total amount of UV absorbing material in an intrachromosomal structure was measured by scanning a photomicrograph and integrating the absorbencies over the structure. Nucleic acid was determined by the difference between the total amount of material found before and after extraction with nucleases."
"Except for the studies of partial cell irradiation by ultraviolet microbeams, most of the data concerning the biological effects of ultraviolet irradiation have been obtained in studies utilizing relatively simple and inexpensive apparatus. As more sophisticated instruments such as the microbeam combined with monochromatic light sources and the flying spot microscopes are perfected, even more critical biological analyses should be forthcoming. The few examples of the contributions of ultraviolet radiobiological studies to the analysis of complex biological problems briefly discussed in this paper serve only as indicators of the future progress which will result as these radiobiological techniques are applied to an even wider range of biological problems."
"The Ultraviolet Flying-Spot Television Microscope is a new tool for the study of living cells. The original development of the technique has been described by the authors elsewhere. One of the major uses of this technique is the study of ultraviolet irradiation damage in living cells. Recent advances in the technique now enable one to perform experiments designed to elucidate the relationship between total cellular damage and cellular component damage. This paper describes the methods for the simultaneous utilization of two wavelengths of light for the illumination of different portions of a single living cell. This technical advance now makes it possible to produce ultraviolet irradiation damage in any area of the cell while illuminating the remainder of the cell with nondamaging visible light purely for image production purposes."
"Fluorescence emission spectra were obtained from single unfixed ascites tumor cells stained at 3.3 × 10-7 M to 3.3 × 10-4 M concentrations of the vital fluorochrome, acridine orange. The new RCA Intensifier Image Orthicon television camera tube was used as the light detector and afforded approximately a one-hundredfold increase in sensitivity over a standard image orthicon in this application. The light from the microscope was dispersed by a Leitz ``High Power'' Monochromator (exit slit removed) and the spectrum focused on the faceplate of the Intensifier Image Orthicon. Spectral curves were obtained by applying appropriate corrections to recordings of line selected oscilloscope traces. These curves show two emission peaks which indicate the presence of two molecular species in close agreement with in vitro data. Advantages of the technique and some implications of the results are discussed."
"In order to study the physiological mechanisms of temperature sensation, the forehead area of seven subjects was exposed to controlled heating while the skin temperature was radiometrically measured and recorded. Continuous exposure to variations in far infrared radiation produced temperature sensations which could best be correlated with rates of change of skin temperature. Warmth threshold was accompanied by a rate of rise of skin temperature of 0.001°C/second; cool threshold was accompanied by a rate of fall of skin temperature of 0.005° to 0.006°C/second. Reports of temperature sensation continued to be given when no changes in skin temperature could be measured. Small, rapid fluctuations in skin temperature, exceeding the rates of rise and fall just given, evoked no reports of sensation. It was postulated that the temperature changes involved were confined to the most superficial layers of the skin, and therefore did not stimulate the cutaneous temperature receptors. The same sequence of sensation reports resulted from preliminarily heating up or cooling down the skin, and then allowing it to return spontaneously to its normal temperature level. Cool sensations accompanying rapidly rising skin temperature change rates were believed to be due to simultaneous inhibition of warmth receptors and excitation of cold receptors. Exposure of blackened and unblackened forehead skin to various pulse duration-intensity combinations of near infrared radiation sufficient to evoke threshold warmth sensation, permitted intracutaneous temperature changes to be calculated. All such changes producing a threshold warmth sensation caused a temperature rise of about 0."
"Lens opacities result from exposure of the rabbit eye to 2450-mc continuous wave radiation. Threshold for a single damaging exposure is determined by power density and duration. Opacities may also result as a cumulative effect of repeated subthreshold exposures. Intraocular temperature increases during irradiation, the extent and rate of increase being related to power density. Inasmuch as a particular temperature critical for opacity induction cannot be identified, it is suggested that the intraocular thermal response may be coincident with, rather than the cause of, induction of opacities. Lens damage may result from irradiation at power levels not sufficient to cause discomfort to nonanesthetized animals. Pulsed radiation with high peak intensities appears to be more potent in inducing lens opacities than continuous wave radiation of equal average power. Since ocular temperature is related to average rather than to peak power, these findings further suggest the possibility of a nonthermal biological effect of microwave radiation."
"1) Absorption of sound in solutions of macromolecules has been found to be comparable in magnitude and similar in frequency dependence to that of tissues and blood. The absorption has been shown to arise through a relaxation process. Several experimental observations suggest that the relaxation may be related to the protein-water interactions. 2) The absorption of sound in normal blood, although predominately a molecular process, has in addition a component arising from the relative motion between the cells and the plasma. 3) In certain tissues, the experimental evidence points out again the importance of direct molecular absorption. This may be modified to some extent in inhomogeneous tissues where there is the possibility of selective absorption arising at macroscopic discontinuities."
"Normal- and high-speed cinemicrographs of events resulting from highly localized 25-kc vibration of small regions of an individual cell wall in Elodea leaf cells and in plastic cell models are discussed. In plant cells, complex patterns of ordered agitation are set up, similar to parts of the patterns observed in model cells. In models containing Newtonian fluids, steady circulation results with streamline positions and directions being functions of viscosity and the vibration pattern of the wall, the general features being accounted for by the theory of acoustic streaming. In models containing weak agar gels, a combination of plastic and fluid behavior is observed as setting ensues; immediately after vibration begins, suspended particles ``flow'' for a short distance following the streamlines of a viscous fluid, with displacement vectors distributed like the velocity vectors in acoustic streaming, but, as the sound ceases, return slowly almost to their original positions."
"Focused high intensity ultrasound can be used, under accurately controlled dosage conditions, to produce either temporary or permanent changes in practically any desired brain structure. Volumes of tissue smaller than one tenth of a cubic millimeter can be affected in deep brain structures of experimental animals (cats and monkeys), and regions as large as desired can be changed by moving the focal spot of the ultrasonic beams through an appropriately chosen path. The changes can be induced without adversely affecting intervening brain structure and without interrupting the vascular system even within the site in which irreversible or permanent changes in the neural components are produced. The selectivity and absence of effects on the intervening tissue make focused ultrasound a tool of considerable power for investigating basic brain mechanisms. It is now being used in an extensive experimental animal program involving neuroanatomical, behavioral and physiological studies. It is also being used to study and modify the symptoms of various neurological disorders in humans. The signs and symptoms which have been and are under investigation in human patients at the present time include abnormal movements (tremor and nonpatterned), muscular rigidity), intractable pain (following amputations, cerebral vascular accidents, the acute phase of herpes zoster) and hypersensitivity to stimulation of the body surface."
"Some areas of application of the infrared image converter to diagnostic procedures in cases of corneal opacification are presented. Further extension of areas of usefulness will be paced by technical advances in infrared optics, quality of screen image, and simplification of design to facilitate the adaptation of the tube as an auxiliary for direct ophthalmic examination."
"A preliminary study has been carried out to establish the usefulness of a simple clinical technique for evaluating the relative cerebral blood flow in each hemisphere. The theory of the test is to monitor the arrival in the head of intravenously injected radioisotope. Two collimated detectors monitor the two cerebral hemispheres for 60 seconds. The test is simple to administer and extremely safe since a rapidly excreted radioisotope is used. Preliminary study suggests it may be of considerable clinical value in view of its simplicity and safety."
"It has been determined that the electrical conductance of whole blood is a very accurate index of its hematocrit. The new instrument described here fills a need for a quick, accurate portable hematocrit meter. This meter can be used at the patient's side for an instantaneous determination, and wherever a portable instrument is required. The advantages of this new instrument are its speed of operation, direct reading, small sample of blood required, and the inherent accuracy of the electrical determination. The last fact could well result in greater clinical significance of the hematocrit measurement."
"A miniature glass dosimetry system, is described that, when employed with a gold shield of suitable wall thickness and ``softer energy'' portals, is energy independent over a specified photon energy spectrum. A brief review of the characteristics that this dosimeter must meet before its use as a clinical in vivo doosimeter is included. Various physical characteristics relating to range, integration of daily dose, and orientation with respect to the source of radiation, etc., are also considered. Its clinical applications are reviewed as well as its use with radium and other discrete sources as implants. A brief review is made of its possible use in the detection of gamma radiation in the presence of neutrons. The applications of this dosimeter, as the authors indicate, are not limited to any specific field; rather, its use is determined if one wants the daily and/or total dosage of radiation delivered to a specific point. A separate electronic reader is required to read the dosimeter."
"The Television Eye Marker utilizes the reflection of a light from the cornea to record the position of a man's gaze upon a picture of the scene at which he is looking. This corneal reflection is viewed under magnification by a television camera while the scene is viewed by a second television camera and the outputs of the two cameras are combined. The resultant picture on the monitor television screen shows the scene with a bright spot superimposed, indicating the position and movements of the subject's gaze. This can be photographed by a motion picture camera. The bright spot is called the Eye Marker. Photocells are mounted against the monitor television screen and are thus activated when the Eye Marker passes beneath them. The position of each phootocell is correlated with a position in the scene so that when the subject looks at a point in the scene, the corresponding photocell is activated. The photocell output is used to record the positions of visual fixation, and also to control the visual or other information presented to the subject. A method of converting the photocell output into signals in the teletype code is described."
"The dc field potential has been determined on the surface of the intact salamander, Trituris viridescens. A complex field was found which did not correspond to a simple dipole. The field was found to vary in a dynamic fashion with changes in the level of anesthesia. The spatial organization of the field correlated well with the anatomical organization of the central nervous system of the animal, in that areas of nerve cell aggregations within the central nervous system appeared to serve as both sources and sinks of the potential, with transmission of the steady potential along major nerve trunks. An analog model of the central nervous system was constructed utilizing several bimetallic junctions and a conducting network. This model produced a field in a modified electrolytic tank which corresponded well with the field found in the intact animal. It was concluded that the dc bioelectric potential in organisms may be generated within and conducted by portions of the central nervous system. The possibility that this is a means of data transmission and/or control (in addition to the usual action potential system) is being evaluated."
"A double-beam photometer is described which employs a single photocell and motor-driven shutter synchronized with alternately energized screens in a gated amplifier. The equipment is used for indicating and recording monochromatic light absorption changes by a thin layer of hemoglobin-containing media exposed to diffusion of various gases."
"In connection with research on coronary heart diseases, the need arose to measure extremely low blood flows in uncannulated vessels in the immediate vicinity of the heart in a living animal. Measurement of flood flow in this instance is complicated by the typically small flow rates, the requirement to transmit faithfully the pulsating components of the flow, and the large interfering cardiac voltages in the vicinity of the implanted vessel. Nearly all of the development effort described in this paper was devoted to extending the range of the electromagnetic type of flowmeter. Critical system parameters in this particular application were found to be the input impedance level and coupling methods of the preamplifier, phase accuracy of the timing voltages, and common-mode rejection of the carrier amplifier. Significant but relatively less important factors are the coil-drive method, the waveshape of the coil-drive current, and the noise level of the gating system. The blood flowmeter described in this paper has been in daily use at the Buffalo Veterans' Administration Hospital since mid-June 1959. During most of this period, medical personnel have been operating the instrument and have performed the electrical adjustments which occasionally are needed to maintain the instrument at a suitable performance level."
"A data-processing machine, programmed to simulate what is postulated to be the operation of a physician's mind when he makes a diagnostic decision, interprets patients' medical histories with such discrimination that it identifies the patient's disease as often as does a physician who interprets the same data. Although the diagnostic decisions made by the machine could not be distinguished from those made by the physician, it cannot be said that the machine is an analog of the human mind, which remains a black box of unknown operation."
"The medical research groups have been somewhat at a disadvantage in securing certain instrumentation for their various projects because usually they must rely upon large established engineering organizations where close liaison is rather difficult. A group of volunteer engineers at the Illinois Bell Telephone Company, in their own spare time, have been able to produce instrumentation for a number of these projects in a unique manner. This paper describes the SAVE (Service Activities of Volunteer Engineers) operation and one of their projects, the portable (3-ounce) self-contained, cumulative heartbeat recorder."
"Achalasia is a neuromuscular disorder of the esophagus with typical motility, X ray, and intraluminal pressure patterns. In the past, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in this disease involved the use of fluoroscopy and ``spot'' filming. With the introduction of fluorocinematography (General Electric TV-X), it has become feasible to perform prolonged studies and more accurate therapy with simultaneous filming of all these events. The motor phenomena could then be studied in detail with frame by frame analysis of the film. At the same time the radiation hazard to the patient and the observer has been greatly reduced. Although at the moment certain technical problems have tended to limit the usefulness of this procedure to the esophagus and adjacent structures, it is felt that the entire gastrointestinal tract will ultimately be amenable to such detailed methods of study."
"A method is presented for simultaneous recording of the electrocardiogram on the cineangiocardigram. A system for direct visualization of the stylus recording has been designed. Simultaneous recording is helpful in determining the exact timing of the blood flow through intracardiac shunts."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Books are no longer adequate means for storing clinical data in a form which can make retrieval sufficiently flexible. It is suggested that a Grouped Symbol Associator is the equipment of choice for relating an individual case to generalized accounts of many similar illnesses. It is further suggested that mechanical aids will provide the physician with precise knowledge in a systematic way and permit him to devote his time to a study of the individual peculiarities of a case."
"With the aid of a digital computer, comparison was made of hospital case data and data characteristic of hematologic diseases. The differential diagnoses of the hospital cases were tabulated in written form. Conclusions were also stated regarding whether enough hospital case data were present to establish a diagnosis, or whether additional data were needed."
"The problem of diagnostic computation has been approached by defining each disease in terms of its symptoms and their relative significance in the characterization of that particular disease. These ``definitions'' were then converted into analogous resistive networks and were used as standards against which a group of symptoms representing an unknown disease could be compared. The specialized computer constructed for this purpose compares the unknown with each of the standards stored in the machine, and if there is a match it indicates with which standard or disease there is a match and to what extent a correlation exists between them. The machine compares the unknown with all of the standards even if a match is found early in the process so that if two or more possibilities exist they will all be indicated."
"Psychiatrists collect a vast amount of clinical information in lengthy interviews with patients. It is proposed that this information can be reliably recorded on a series of scales in a form suitable for high-speed data processing. A method of recording currently in use in a Michigan hospital is presented and its advantages and disadvantages discussed."
"The diagnostic implications of medical research utilizing a digital computer are discussed according to the type of mathematical analysis and/or computer technique employed. Illustrative examples include the solution of differential equations in anesthesiology, the use of Fourier analysis in ballistocardiology, and the use of multiple regression analysis in neoplastic chemotherapy."
"1) Medical histories recorded by machine. How will these records be used by medical people and medical institutions? The answer to this is important because at the moment no one has told us of a real bona fide use for these records, and consequently, having them in machine form is of no clear-cut advantage. 2) Machine-aided diagnoses. We feel that the computing machine can be of real service in this area, but it is not at all clear exactly how the medical profession can take advantage of the capabilities of the machinery. The real problem here is to use the computer to aid the doctor, not to replace him. 3) Laboratory data. Laboratory data can be fed into computers perhaps more easily than can any other data. However, it is probably going to be important to use laboratory analyzing equipment which can make records in machine-readable form if full advantage is to be taken of the computing machine. 4) The handling of graphical and pictorial information. such as ``EKG, EEG, and X-ray pictures.'' EKG's and EEG's can probably be made to yield to mathematical analysis, but the question of machine-digested X rays is still open. 5) Communication between doctor and computer. The question of how a doctor can introduce data into the computer without having to resort to the usual transcription of handwritten data to punch-card form is one that I feel we must settle if there is to be any progress at all in this area."
"A great many medical diagnostic tests have been developed to supplement the patient information obtained from history and physical examination. These tests vary greatly in amount of discomfort to the patient, complexity, and cost. It is obvious that diagnostic tests should be kept to a minimum. Logical consideration to help determine the minimum additional medical tests needed in a specific case will be discussed."
"Methods do not exist for the rapid, quantitative analysis of complex phasic patterns such as are seen on records of intraluminal gastrointestinal pressure or other parameters of motility. In an attempt to develop a more satisfactory method, these wave forms have been converted into digital form and then analyzed by the Whirlwind I digital computer at M.I.T. Generation of the autocorrelation function and the power density spectrum of these records has permitted a numerical, quantitative expression of certain information contained in these curves."
"Apparatus has been designed to sample, digitize, and magnetically record for computer input up to 29 physiological variables as recorded on the intact human. Specialized procedures have been worked out for computing independently on continuous variables the four aspects of correlation-lag, coincidence, amplitude, and slope."
"The problem of retrieval of information from the large volume of clinical literature has received increasing attention in the last few years. The methods of structural linguistics are being applied to this problem and may ultimately provide for machine indexing and abstracting and for the flexible retrieval of data pertinent to specific clinical problems."
"The major activity of this laboratory is to establish mathematical models that approximately describe the various parts of the cardiovascular and pulmonary systems. With this knowledge descriptive equations can be derived that are suitable for solution by computer techniques. These solutions are of potential diagnostic value. Two examples will be cited in which 1) blood velocity is computed from a measured pressure gradient and 2) the physical properties of certain intrathoracic pulmonary structures may be deduced from air flow measurement."
"The major activity of this laboratory is to establish mathematical models that approximately describe the various parts of the cardiovascular and pulmonary systems. With this knowledge descriptive equations can be derived that are suitable for solution by computer techniques. These solutions are of potential diagnostic value. Two examples will be cited in which 1) blood velocity is computed from a measured pressure gradient and 2) the physical properties of certain intrathoracic pulmonary structures may be deduced from air flow measurement."
"With the advent of modern, high-speed electronic digital techniques, new tools and new approaches to the problem of spectral analysis become possible. These can be used to develop methods for extracting this hitherto unused information from analytical systems. The resulting procedures which become available by the digital manipulation of spectral information provide a powerful extension of the analyst's ability and enhance judgment and intuitive knowledge built up by past analytical experience."
"It is becoming increasingly recognized that electronic computers can aid certain aspects of medical diagnosis. But to use the computer for such purposes, the mathematical foundation of the medical diagnostic processes must first be well understood. Three mathematical disciplines are inherently involved in the diagnostic processes: logic, probability, and value theory."
"The basic input to the type 704 computer is simply the presence or absence of those characteristics (symptoms or results of a laboratory test) of a set of medical cases which are considered to be pertinent by an expert in that particular field. Pairwise and over-all similarity of both the cases and the symptoms are defined so that geometrically the cases, considered as points in a suitable space, form several clumps, thus establishing a natural classification. The mathematical model is based on the assumption of equal-likeliness of the characteristics or symptoms so that in order that the final results be significant, a sufficiently large number of characteristics are initially assumed and the system is reduced by repetitively deleting the least significant characteristic, thus inducing weighting of the characteristics, since more emphasis is placed on those characteristics which comprehend one another. When the set of characteristics is fixed, the computer is able to determine the case or cases which in an over-all sense best represent the characteristics. By interpreting pairwise similarity as probabilities, it is possible to predict how likely it is for a case with given symptoms (or tests) to exist on the basis of the classification the computer produces."
"This paper discusses the logical structure of a computer program designed to analyze and determine significant relationships between sets of symptoms drawn from actual case histories and a ``classical'' set in a group of hematological diseases."
"In machine-aided diagnosis, the problem of dividing the diagnostician's task sensibly between the doctor and machine will be a major part of any successful solution. In this division, a major problem to be faced will be facilitation of communication between the doctor and his mechanical aide. To study methods of communication to match ``communication rates,'' and to establish those parts of the diagnostic problem for which the doctor and machine are individually most suited, are probably the most important part of machine-aided diagnosis. On the solution of these problems rests not only the best realization of the potentials of the team, but, even more important, a full acceptance by the medical profession of the diagnostic machine as a welcome assistant."
"Computers have been built which can handle spatial problems. A particularly interesting application of the spatially oriented computer is to ``read'' chest X-ray photofluorograms and to separate the obviously abnormal chest films from the normal chest films. Preliminary studies of such a computer will be described."
"At the present time, national vital statistics are tabulated on electric accounting machines. During the past two years, the National Office of Vital Statistics has been engaged in a study of the feasibility of electronic data processing equipment. In terms of possible applications of electronic data processing systems within the National Office of Vital Statistics, the NOVS program falls into two broad areas: 1) The annual cycle of the collection, processing, analysis, and dissemination of vital statistics (births, deaths, fetal deaths, marriages, divorces, and notifiable diseases). 2) The conduct and processing of special statistical studies in the fields of health and demography. The experiences of other large statistical agencies have shown that EDPM can contribute greatly to the speed of data processing and to the efficient handling of complex tabulations and computations. It may well be the same in the case of national vital statistics processing. In any case, the examination of present procedures required in a feasibility study will contribute greatly to the over-all efficiency of the organization."
"There is an urgent need to quantify if possible the complex phenomena emerging out of the changeable nature and variability of disease processes and resulting from the interactions of man, disease agents, and his environment. Comprehensive care and individualization of treatment is formulated by the physician logically or empirically or intuitively. Methods that can increase the variety, frequency and depth of our observations should assist us. Information flow between the patient and the physician has been scrutinized to develop extensive application of EDP for clinical use and research in chronic disease. A variety of digitation formats is being investigated and used. The assumptions of this experiment and the problems and advantages of present experience with EDP will be considered. Practical technical problems that have been identified will be discussed."
"The Vanderbilt University School of Medicine study of the feasibility of electronic data processing in medical diagnosis emphasizes a coordinated engineering and medical scientific effort. All needed technical modalities exist. Decisions have to be made about obtaining and encoding input patient information, size of memory, nature of access, the organization of data stored in it, the arithmetic of comparison, the format of a useful output. Diagnosis of health is a worthwhile long-term objective. Government services, large industries, and major medical centers are primary sites. Administrative, personnel and financing problems are difficult but not insurmountable."
"Once certain standards are agreed upon, we may obtain and record maximum information from patients with minimum expenditure of a doctor's time and eliminate entirely certain human factors peculiar to both doctor and patient which sometimes lead to delay or confusion in diagnosis. This information will be permanently recorded and readily available at all times and in all places to subsequent physicians. The record can be kept continuously up to date. Classification and analysis of the material obtained by electronic data processing (EDP) will suggest diagnoses, further tests, and possible lines of treatment. The collection of material from millions of cases will present opportunities for EDP to study association of diseases, constitutional factors in disease, environmental factors, etc. (cf. german measles, cancer of lung) and will afford opportunities for unbiased study of methods of treatment. This seems to promise an ``industrial revolution'' in the practice of medicine."
"Many of the time-consuming activities performed by a practicing physician can be performed expeditiously by electronic data processing. Permanent records on patients could be made available in a very short time to any hospital in the country. However, the meeting of patient and physician must be regarded as a therapeutic phenomenon from the start. The importance of the thinking, reasoning, and listening process on the part of the physician cannot be diminished without affecting the over-all therapeutic value of the physician to the patient."
"Contains an entry for each author and co-author included in the conference."
"A description is given of the bio-instrumentation phase of two related Army Jupiter ballistic missile flights involving squirrel monkey passengers, one of which was recovered alive and in good physical condition. These flights marked the initial entry into space, and successful return, of a primate under ballistic flight conditions comparable to those to be encountered by man. The paper describes the relationship of the instrumentation program to the biocapsule design in terms of the telemetered measurements. An outline is presented of the signal conditioning circuitry and associated transducers used for the in-flight telemetry recording of the primate's electrocardiogram, respiration rate, chest sounds, and axilla body temperature. Instrumentation related to the recording of the ambient temperature and pressure of the biocapsule, flash temperatures, and cosmic ray particle tracks is also described."
"A new method for the continuous measurement and recording of sweat rate has been developed. The sweat rate is determined by continuously measuring the change in resistance of a sensing element which, in turn, reflects the change in moisture content of a small volume of air. In operation, a chamber containing the element is fastened against the skin. Dry air is passed through the chamber at a sufficient rate to maintain an arbitrarily predetermined level of humidity within the chamber. A variation in sweat rate produces a change in the moisture content of the air and, consequently, a change in the resistance of the element. This change is nullified by means of a servo system which adjusts the flow of dry air so as to restore the original level of moisture. Thus, the air flow across the element at any time is a measure of the sweat rate."
"Many problems in medical research concerning the transmembrane diffusion, transport, and metabolism of oxygen require its detection with microliter accuracy. The paper describes the construction and operating characteristics of an electronic polarograph sensing system with a membrane-covered gold electrode having a sensing error of less than 0.5 microliter of oxygen at atmospheric pressure."
"The receiver detects FM signals with frequency deviations up to 30 kc in the 300-400-kc band. The drift is less than ±20 cps per day. The receiver operates satisfactorily with field strength variations of 1:30,000. To prevent erroneous recordings when the signal strength varies abruptly with changes in the mutual direction of the transmitting and receiving antennas, a nondirectional receiving antenna circuit has been developed. Also, an output clamp circuit prevents the recorded values from changing during occasionally low field strength periods."
"Similarities between micromanipulation in molectronics and in biology are demonstrated. The author describes different types of micromanipulators, including that of his own design, and lists also a few typical applications of micromanipulation in biology, from his own experience. The intention of the paper is to stimulate interest in the design of tools needed in the development of microminiature and molecular electronic modules and subsystems."
"Piezoelectric and certain other transducers are not suitable as displacement monitors for very-low-frequency phenomena because the sustained signal resulting from a steady input dies away. The gradual disappearance of the generated voltage essentially partially differentiates a signal. Good low-frequency response down to zero frequency is reconstituted by mixing with a signal some of its own integral. The detailed conditions and circuits are given. A relevant theorem on the possible perfection of diodes in integrators is demonstrated. Drift limits response to a few minutes, and static pressure or displacement measurements are presently limited to this period. Experiments on simultaneously cancelling several cascaded time constants, e.g., pneumatic and electric, are cited."
"A survey of biophysics teaching programs shows that at least 68 institutions in the United States and Canada now offer such programs, and more will be started in the near future. A classification of types of program is given, together with pertinent statistics. Despite a wide diversity of interests and administrative organization, a remarkable degree of agreement on the requirements of biophysics as a discipline is disclosed."
"In the course of a study on the relationship between tissue damage and pain sensation due to thermal stimulation,1 a computer method was developed for the analysis of the experimental data. Considerable interest in the details of this method has been expressed by various investigators who encounter similar data analysis problems. This report is written, therefore, to state the problem and its solution as an indication of some of the possibilities computer methods offer the biological investigator having little or no previous experience in the use of computers. The rationale, physiological observations, and results of the study itself have been reported elsewhere1 so that only those facts necessary to an understanding of the computer solution are noted here."
"This paper examines the growing interest in data processing of medical data, exploring problems of machine design, problem formulation, and analysis. In addition, it discusses data-processing systems in relation to four basic medical-data-handling problem areas and their relation and interaction with equipment design, and reports that these problem areas are: clinical patient data, basic research, diagnosis, and medical-document retrieval. It also reports that any failure of the computer, at the present time, to provide required information is due to inability to feed it precise instructions on what it should do, and that results of further study will be reflected in improved equipment design. Finally, it concludes that the greatest problem is that of education-the necessity for engineers to understand medical problems better in order to design better equipment, and the necessity for the physician to know about the techniques and equipment of data processing."
"Noting that the heterogeneous and complicated nature of medical data places severe restrictions on its analysis, a discussion of the feasibility of establishing standard procedures for this analysis follows. It is pointed out that computational difficulties can be overcome by the use of a high-speed, large-memory computer; principles of mathematical statistics and their application to investigation of medical data are outlined, and the extent of medical data needed to furnish various levels of clinical information is discussed."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Consideration is given to the direction of future microwave device research and development based on requirements for space communication, tracking, search and surveillance, and interference and countermeasures. The crucial element in two-way communication with a space vehicle is the vehicle-borne transmitter. The large values of one-way transmission loss associated with interplanetary distances will require great improvements in these transmitters. Radar involves two-way transmission loss, so even more improvement will be required for tracking and search radars. Solution of interference problems will require increased instantaneous bandwidths. Accordingly, it is suggested that much additional microwave device research and development work is needed. Average power and efficiency of microwave tubes must be increased, with the longer centimeter wavelengths to be used for earth-based radars and 1-30 millimeter wavelengths to be used for radars to be borne in space vehicles. This work should concentrate mainly on traveling-wave tubes. Solid-state low-noise receiving devices and low-noise traveling-wave tubes must be extended to higher frequencies and broader bandwidths. Means of generating microwave power through the use of plasmas must be investigated. All types of microwave election devices must be adapted to the space environment."
"Since 1946, the Naval Research Laboratory has conducted basic research in the physics of the upper atmosphere by means of high-altitude rockets. The program has emphasized all areas of research, including atmospheric structure and composition, the ionosphere, airglow and aurora, meteors, cosmic rays, and rocket astronomy. In the last area, which includes X ray and ultraviolet radiation measurements, NRL scientists have contributed a major portion of the experimental information available today. These comprise all the existing data on solar X rays, the X ray and ultraviolet emissions of solar flares, the first spectrogram of the sun covering the ultraviolet region below 3000 A and subsequent extensions of the spectrum into the extreme ultraviolet, the first quantitative measurements of solar Lyman-α, and the discovery of ultraviolet nebulosities and the Lyman-α glow of the night sky. A recent success in photographing the profile of Lyman-α with very high resolution opens the way to the use of optical resonance absorption as a gauge of atmospheric composition. This method may prove to be a most powerful technique for analysis of the very high atmosphere, well beyond the range of satellite drag measurements. The purpose of this paper is to describe the experimental approach used in accomplishing the radiation measurement program just outlined."
"The properties of the field emission electron source are discussed. These include high current density, small size, no heater, instantaneous response, and a highly non-linear current-voltage relationship. Engineering data are then derived including conductance, perveance, beam power, etc. It is shown that the field emission cathode is electrically stable and that it has long life given suitable environments and/or operating conditions which are specified. Microwave, voltage control and measurement, electron optical and other applications are discussed. A 300-megw flash X-ray tube now in production is described The availability of the field emitter as a newly practical electron source is expected to make possible a number of new devices which may more often complement than compete with existing technology."
"A review of the use of earth satellites for reliable, ionospheric-independent communication circuits includes considerations of losses in the propagating path, directivity features, and influences such as Doppler shift. The effects of such influences on bandwidth and range are illuminated."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents a brief biography of Hans K. Ziegler. Dr. Ziegler is the 1960-61 President of the Armed Forces Communications and Electronics Association Fort Monmouth Chapter, and also serves on various military and civilian committees and panels."
"This paper presents an account of the Army's role in missile development and achievements. It begins by giving a short historical account of the Army's missile and space program. It then gives an explanation of the Army's present role in missiles and space. Finally it gives a few proposals for the future. Also included is a list of ``Firsts'' that are credited to the Army in its role of missile and space achievements. This paper also gives the achievements and capabilities of the Redstone, Jupiter and modified Jupiter (JUNO I and JUNO II) vehicles, and some of the capabilities of the Saturn vehicle."
"The Juno I Vehicle consists of a modified Redstone Booster with three solid propellant upper stages. The second and third stages are made up by clustering the same rocket used as the fourth stage. The upper stages are contained in a spinning launcher. The spinning provides stability during flight. The Juno II vehicle uses the same upper stages as the Juno I and the booster is a modified Jupiter. The Juno I has put 25 pounds of payload into orbit. The Juno II can carry a 90-pound satellite or 15 pounds in an escape mission. Both vehicles were conceived to provide a quick and economical space vehicle; and as such the design was not optimum in all cases. Problems were created by this approach, such as dispersion of the upper stages as a function of spin speed, heavier payloads which require reinforcing the cluster structure, protecting the missile from aerodynamic heating on some missions, and raising the natural frequency of the cluster structure. These and other problems had to be solved as the Juno program progressed."
"A discussion is presented of the design restrictions and the philosophy which enabled the Explorer satellites to be first during the IGY to reveal the presence of a belt of intense cosmic radiation encircling the earth's equator. In addition, an indication of the amount and momentum of cosmic dust in the solar system was obtained from the Explorers. Methods used to obtain reliability in the transducing and communications system are described, together with interpretations of space-environment information as deduced from the narrow-band telemetry."
"The development of the orbiting carrier Explorer VII is presented. It is shown how the many requirements inherent to the mission were incorporated into one satellite system. The design parameters are discussed. Particular emphasis is devoted to the testing of the satellite with regard to functional and environmental conditions."
"This paper presents a description and the results of experiments conducted and carried aboard the Explorer VII satellite. Experiments covered are: radiation balance, heavy primary cosmic ray, Lyman-alpha X ray, the cosmic ray, exposed solar cell, micrometeorite, the earth radiation balance, and temperature measurement. A brief description of the power source and telemetering frequencies used on the satellite for the transmission of scientific information is also given."
"The thermal control of the Explorer satellites that were launched by Development Operations Division of the Army Ballistic Missile Agency is described. Explorers I through V were launched under the direction of the Department of Defense, and Explorer VII under the sponsorship of NASA. The thermal design of these satellites was based on a study of environmental conditions, and the effect of many parameters was determined in a computer program to find their influence on the thermal equilibrium. Methods have been improved from satellite to satellite. A description is given of the thermal design of Explorer VII, the most recent one of these satellites which had to fulfil the temperature and attitude requirements of seven experiments. A nearly spherical shape was found to fulfil these requirements best. A new principle was introduced that allowed the radiative heat transfer through the interior of the satellite, but kept the instruments and batteries well insulated from this internal heat flux. A thermal testing program carried out in a vacuum chamber with a prototype of Explorer VII is described and some examples of measuring results are given. This testing program proved to be extremely valuable to test the soundness of the thermal design, to find and eliminate bugs, and to measure thermal coefficients for flight correlation. Temperature measurements of the Explorers allowed conclusions to be drawn on the behavior of these satellites in space. Explorer IV showed strong temperature fluctuations."
"Argus was a code name given to a project which was to utilize atomic bursts at high altitudes to inject electrons artificially into the magnetic field of the earth, and to observe their movements by means of satellite borne instrumentation. The Army Ballistic Missile Agency (ABMA) was assigned the over-all project direction for the satellite program including development of the instrumentation, construction, and testing and launching of the satellite. Also, ABMA was given post flight responsibility for tracking, telemetering, orbital computations, and data reduction. This paper presents an account of the events leading up to the project, and ABMA's program in carrying out its responsibilities. Also included are test results for project Argus."
"The Argus series of high-altitude nuclear explosions has provided us with the means of studying hydromagnetic-wave effects under known and controllable conditions. These explosions have enabled us to compare, for the first time, quantitative experimental data with theoretical considerations. Analysis of the world-wide hydromagnetic-wave effects led to the discovery of an interesting duct-like mechanism for the propagation of hydromagnetic waves at altitudes between 2000 and 3000 km. This mechanism is essential for the efficient propagation of hydromagnetic waves over global distances."
"A description of the over-all objectives of the Pioneer III and IV experiments is presented. Included is an analysis of the payload design philosophy, a description of the flight hardware, and a synopsis of the results of the experiments."
"The present status (1959-1960) of the ABMA Early Orbit Determination scheme for the Juno space vehicle is described, The design of the scheme was essentially influenced by three factors: 1) its origin centered around post flight vehicle analysis; 2) the flexibility required for accepting varied kinds of data; and 3) the potential of high speed computers concentrated in the ABMA Computation Laboratory. The scheme is outlined and the evaluation techniques used for the various steps of the orbit determination are discussed in detail."
"This paper presents a description of the factors associated with establishing trajectories for the Juno I and Juno II program. It gives a description of the following orbital elements: inclination, eccentricity, semi-major axis, right ascension of the ascending node, argument of perigee, and time of perigee passage. Also included is a detailed description of the trajectory arrangement for the Lunar Probe, and a list of the elliptical characteristics for the Explorer VII trajectory."
"This paper discusses the various factors that influenced the design of the TRACE deep space communications system, the choice of the operating frequency, and the selection of a suitable ground antenna. The configuration of the three different microwave communications system stations-launch, injection, and deep space--employed in the Pioneer III and IV experiments is given, together with a description of the computing and interstation communications system. A brief description of the performance of the TRACE systems, its proposed development, and its future capabilities is also included."
"A short survey on the mechanics of the free flight part of circumlunar flight is presented. This survey is by no means complete and many refinements have been listed but not explained. Other important fields such as attitude control have been left out completely. It must be stressed that for exact computations of trajectories, special studies covering the astronomical constants and computational methods are mandatory. The launch vehicle, space capsule, environment and its control, onboard power supply, communications, and methods of space navigation and propulsion are but a few of the topics which need treatment if completeness is desired. Other areas requiring attention are the Earth communications links for both data transmission and vehicle control as well as the major item of payload recovery particularly when that payload is man!"
"This paper describes the telemetry system to be used on the Saturn booster and, by way of introduction, a brief description of the Redstone and Jupiter telemetry systems is given. The additional requirements for the system caused by the multiple engine booster are pointed out and the design consideration for the system is discussed. A description of the Saturn telemetry equipment is discussed in general block diagram form. No detailed. circuit description is given. In conclusion, the physical and electrical characteristics and accuracy requirements are outlined."
"A discussion of the long distance military communication trunking problem is presented with particular emphasis on the lack of flexibility and capacity in currently used methods. Satellite-borne radio relay repeaters are considered as a possible solution to the trunking problem. State-of-the-art limitations which restrain the establishment of a system meeting the total needs are discussed. A compromise solution consisting of a combination of real time and delay repeater satellites is presented followed by a brief outline of current R&D efforts in this area."
"In an earlier paper, on the same subject, a number of factors affecting communication with space vehicles were discussed. Among these were receiver signal-to-noise ratio as a function of temperature, cosmic noise, auroral displays, Faraday rotation of the plane of polarization, and gaseous refraction and absorption. The additional material in this paper treats in a semiquantitative manner and in greater detail the application of elevated heights for earth terminals of space communication systems. This expedient takes advantage of elevated heights to reduce the effects of water vapor and oxygen on limiting the spectrum for radio communication. It is possible to attain some isolation of circuits and extend the range of communication in selected portions of band of 10 to 60 kmc."
"The development program which led to the successful launching and demonstration of the first satellite communication is described in this summary paper. A brief description of the system is included, the results obtained during the operational phase are described, and the impact of the results on future satellite programs discussed."
"This paper describes a delayed-repeater satellite communications system consisting of an orbiting delayed-repeater radio-relay station which passes over terminal ground stations located within the viewing area of the satellite. Messages are exchanged between the satellite and a ground station operating in the 2-kmc band utilizing both polarization and frequency diversity techniques to provide a continuous transmission circuit regardless of the satellite attitude. Data storage in the satellite is accomplished by the use of newly-developed magnetic tape recorders. Signals in the band near 108 mc provide telemetry and command control functions. The telemetry used is a modified standard FM/FM system, while the command control circuit enables selection of satellite control functions. Power for the satellite electronics is derived from solar energy using solar cells which charge nickel-cadmium batteries. Each of the ground stations consists of radio transmitting and receiving equipment and an automatic-tracking 28-foot-diameter parabolic antenna. Each station will acquire the satellite and track it during a pass over a station. Data from the satellite are transmitted (tape loading) to the ground station upon command. Simultaneously, data for the other. two stations are transmitted to the satellite (tape unloading) from the ground station. Message sorting in the satellite is accomplished by use of the appropriate tape recorders, which in turn are activated by ground commands. In the ground stations, teletype messages on paper tape are converted to a serial pulse train at a 50-kilobit-per-second rate by a paper-tape reader and a magnetic recorder-reproducer."
"This paper describes the progressive design, on a phased basis, of a typical communication satellite system capable of meeting a variety of military and civilian applications, The system philosophy stresses reliability and flexibility of operation, with provision for both point-to-point and area coverage, to serve both fixed and mobile ground terminals, and to operate in either a military or nonmilitary environment. Considerations leading to choice of basic system parameters are presented. Major subsystems comprising the satellite payload are described and illustrated. The achievement of maximum reliability and long life is recognized as having the highest priority in satellite design and recommended approaches to the problem are indicated. The equipment required at a communication ground station is described as a function of the quantity and type of communications provided and the desired degree of mobility. Some typical configurations are described. Finally, some conclusions are presented regarding the merits of this type of system and its relation to the over-all space program and global communication requirements."
"The evolution of the velocity-of-sound rocket experiment to measure temperatures, wind speed and direction, and densities at elevations 30 to 80 kilometers is described. Rocket soundings of the atmosphere were made at three locations: White Sands Missile Range, New Mexico; Fort Churchill, Canada; and Guam. Results from White Sands and Fort Churchill are presented. Miniaturization of the equipment and changes in techniques resulted in an all-weather capability which is enabling meteorological agencies to formulate plans to carry out synoptic meteorological and other interesting investigations, using for the first time in the history of meteorology the rocket as a routine instrument carrier. The tracking of X or S band by radars to determine high-elevation winds is described briefly."
"A summary of BRL activities in upper atmosphere research is presented. From a quite modest beginning, the International Geophysical Year gave impetus to a considerable program. Results of electron content measurements in the ionosphere employing rocket borne transmitters are reported. Studies of the water vapor content of the atmosphere and the optical properties of the earth's horizon using balloon borne and rocket borne instrumentation are being made. Some comments on the use of catalytic surfaces to study recombination rates in the atmosphere are given."
"This article tells the missile radar-beacon story from the beginning of V-2 missile firing in America until today. It compares the weight, dimensions, characteristics, and uses of former beacons with those used today. It also describes briefly new beacons under development, and tells how some of the future missiles and satellites may use these beacons."
"Rocket vehicles are being used to expel passive wind sensors in the altitude range of 100,000 to 300,000 feet. The sensors are tracked with S-band and X-band radars to determine wind direction and velocity. Both chaff and metalized parachutes serve as wind sensors and AGC voltage recordings made on both X-band and S-band radars during tracking periods are presented. The recordings are calibrated in decibels above the radar minimum discernible signal and plotted vs slant range. A short discussion of the effects of chaff dispersion is included. Although chaff dispersion deteriorates the effectiveness of the target at a rate of about 20 db/hour, it is concluded that the effective radar target size of the sensors and the slant ranges over which they are employed are quite compatible when AN/MPQ-12 and AN/MPQ-18 radars are utilized."
"The automatic data collecting system, as designed, permits automatic sensing and logging of 64 meteorological parameters measured on a 220-foot tower. The design permits simultaneous measurements of all parameters at all levels, with response of the instruments on the order of a few seconds. There is a resultant increase in data accuracy and acquisition, flexibility of observation periods, ease of maintenance and simplicity of operation. With those capabilities, studies requiring large volumes of data on a continuing basis are feasible with existing manpower."
"The need for systematic data collection pertaining to meteorological parameters in the high atmosphere has led to the development of several relatively economical meteorological rocket vehicles and uncomplicated rocket payloads. The progress toward an optimum system has been encouraging during the past two years, but the over-all state of the sensor development has lagged behind rocket performance. The complexity of the atmosphere in the area of interest indicates a need for extensive theoretical study in the application of sensors and corrective techniques applied to empirical data obtained during rocket flights. The Signal Corps has been active in the development and testing of rocket vehicles and sensors as well as telemetry systems for recovery of the measured data. Over one hundred and fifty rounds have been fired at White Sands Missile Range in testing of hardware and techniques and in training personnel and perfecting launching techniques for application in a more comprehensive observations system. The Loki meteorological sounding rocket has proven to be the first reliable vehicle to be used in large numbers. It can be fired under almost all conditions, but is restricted in payload to the simplest sensors. So far, only wind measurements have been made, using a small parachute below 150,000 feet and chaff above that level to 280,000 feet. The Arcas has considerably increased the capability of the system by providing telemetry for other sensors as payload on a 15-foot diameter parachute."
"The ARIP was designed to improve rocket impact predictions. Previous procedures involved lag time in wind measuring which could not be fully accounted for in an x-time firing decision. This lag time assumes an importance in direct proportion to the magnitude of the wind weighting factors, which with some free flight rockets could be as large as 50 per cent of the total wind effect. Five Aerovane anemometer sensors distributed in the first 100-foot layer provide the data via mechanical and electronic coupling to a computer which has been preset for the ballistic values of a particular rocket. The computer output then activates an X-Y plotter which has been previously zeroed for all other cumulative displacement effects."
"This paper contains a summary of the launch and performance of the first meteorological satellite, Vanguard II. A brief description of its instrumentation is given."
"At 6:40 A.M. on April 1, 1960, the TIROS I satellite was launched, went into its planned orbit, and demonstrated full capability of operation. The cloud pictures returned to earth not only fulfilled all the expectations of the satellite designers from a technical standpoint, but also proved to be informative and of practical value to meteorologists. The effects of the space environment on the satellite itself remained well within the design extremes. Ground operations also went according to plan, with the highly-automated equipment successfully programming the satellite, and then reconstructing the received pictures and their identification coding for photographic reproduction. One of the photographs taken by the wide-angle camera is shown in Fig. 1. The following paper, prepared before the date of launch, describes the satellite and ground data-acquisition system. A brief history tracing the evolution of the project from its earliest concepts is included, as well as a discussion of the major factors, both technical and managerial which affected the final design."
"Artificial satellites promise means of completing precise surveys of the world and of acquiring world-wide photographic coverage for the production of topographic maps. The applicability of satellites to the field of geodesy is covered, and problem areas associated with map compilation serve to emphasize a critical research area."
"Mark II Minitrack, a basic type of radio interferometer, is used to obtain observational data from artificial earth satellites. It is assumed that the antenna field pattern can be approximated by a family of coaxial cones whose common apex is the electrical center of the system. The mathematical theory of calibrating the system with stellar radio sources and the reduction of satellite observational data is given, with an error analysis of the system."
"Recent improvements in electronic distance-measuring equipment have made it possible to obtain higher degrees of accuracy in surveys for mapping. Electronic equipment has therefore become a far-reaching and powerful tool when used for establishing geodetic control in remote areas, between distant triangulation stations, over impassable terrain, and through intervening vegetation, where it is impossible to connect stations by visual methods. As a result of this broader coverage made possible by electronic measurements, more extensive geodetic connections are provided for the determination of the size and shape of the earth and consequent mapping of paths of missiles and of satellites. This paper gives an up-to-date account of these geodetic applications of HIRAN, LORAC, tellurometers, geodimeters, as well as flares, and includes a brief description of the systems. Some of the limitations and problems encountered with these instruments are described and the accuracies which have been obtained from specific field surveys are noted."
"This paper describes a semi-active radar system in which the transmitter is carried in a satellite. The satellite transmits a randomly modulated signal. On the ground the radar has two antennas and receivers. One antenna points at the satellite, the other at the target. The signal from the satellite-oriented receiver is delayed and correlated with the satellite signal reflected from the target. The delay corresponding to the peak of the correlation function is used to determine range. It is planned to test this system with various communications satellites."
"This paper suggests the utilization of an artificial ionosphere (artificial electron cloud) for RF communication. For convenience the presentation is given in two major parts. The first part is concerned with the general considerations associated with the generation, dynamics and other physical characteristics of the artificial ionospheres. It presents a general survey of the data and analysis from several experiments designed and performed expressly for obtaining critical engineering parameters required for the systematic development of these clouds as a propagation medium. These parameters include 1) chemical yield of contaminant, 2) thermal ionization efficiency, 3) upper atmosphere wind velocities, 4) wind shear, 5) ambipolar diffusion, 6) neutral diffusion, 7) solar photoionization probabilities, and 8) several decay processes including mutual neutralization, chemical consumption, electron attachment, recombination, etc. The effect of these processes upon the propagation capabilities of electron clouds is emphasized. Finally, some suggested improvements are offered for optimizing the artificial ionosphere propagation capability. The analytical model for cloud reflection, which is discussed in detail, is the spherically symmetric Gaussian electron distribution cloud. Cross-sectional cloud values as a function of time, including the maximum case, are discussed for this model. Calculations of cloud effectiveness for other reflective cases assuming various distribution functions, as well as one refractive case, are also presented. For the model discussed, the RF communications capability of the artificially generated ionosphere is presented. Since it is of first-order importance, the geometrical limitation of cloud generation altitude as a function of system communications range is considered."
"The special problems involved in performing basic biological experiments in space vehicles are described, emphasizing the need for unique types of instrumentation. Some of the techniques used in preliminary experiments in recoverable nose cones of Army ballistic missiles are explained in detail. The reasons for doing this type of research in these vehicles are included."
"On December 1, 1958, a South American squirrel monkey, and on May 28, 1959, a rhesus and a squirrel monkey, were launched in the nose cones of two U. S. Army Jupiter missiles. The experiments were done by scientists of the Army and Navy medical departments, and personnel of the Army Ballistic Missile Agency. They were done on a noninterference basis with the main mission of the missile. The primary objective of the bio-flights was to demonstrate that animals can survive ballistic flights unharmed, if an adequate life support is provided. The secondary aim was to design, construct and test such a system, to develop countdown and launching procedures, and to recover the specimen after flight. Moreover, technical and scientific information on the physiologic and behavior status of the animal was to be gained through telemetry. Although the first animal was lost, valuable data were obtained on the functioning of the bio-package during flight. They served to improve the second experiment, which added substantially to the understanding of the biomedical requirements for space flight. Moreover, Able and Baker were the first primates recovered unharmed from an operational IRBM nose cone after re-entering the earth's atmosphere."
"The design and development of a recovery system involves extensive studies and tests to determine the best configuration for each specific application. Thought should be given to using off-the-shelf, well proven components where applicable in any new recovery system design. This will reduce the development cost and yield higher system reliability. In discussing the design and development of recovery systems, the over-all problem can be broken down to include considerations of structural integrity of the vehicle; i.e., deceleration loads it can safely withstand, re-entry heating, practical end conditions of velocity and altitude at which recovery system sequence can be initiated with reliable operation, efficiency of system; i.e., weight and space requirements of the system for the amount of braking force developed, flotation equipment if required, and locating devices. This paper discusses these considerations in detail and their application to present and future booster and payload recovery systems being developed by the U. S. Army Ballistic Missile Agency."
"The advent of the space age has placed unique requirements on the design and application of electronic components. Not only has a rigorous environment been imposed on components, but the system demands have often exceeded the state of the art of component development. From all indications these system demands will greatly increase over the next few years. This paper briefly describes some of the Research and Development programs which have been accomplished at USA-SRDL in meeting the space age system and environmental requirements. Based on future system requirements, some programs now in existence, as well as some which are planned, are discussed, and some general conclusions are presented on the work that must be done if the proper electronic components are to be available when needed."
"New, improved and more reliable power sources will have to be developed if anticipated, space-oriented, requirements for higher power and longer life are to be satisfied. Conversion systems employing chemical, solar and nuclear energies are described and their prospects for further improvement discussed."
"Operations conducted at a launching site on any space vehicle program are a result of all contributions to the launching operation team from the many sources of origin concerned with the vehicle. Recognizably, therefore, these contributions vary from contractor to contractor. The following paper is based on the general launching techniques developed and followed by one of the contractors at the Atlantic Missile Range. Launching procedures are the recommended methods and operations necessary in testing, checking and preparing a space vehicle for flight. They are the culmination of all previous experiences, studies and tests formed into a written chronological schedule to check and test each critical flight component and operation in proper sequence. The procedures are accomplished by a group of engineers, technicians and various other specialists organized into a well-coordinated team."
"Like almost everyone else in the world, personnel of the U. S. Army Signal Research and Development Laboratory (USASRDL), Fort Monmouth, N. J. were caught by surprise when the U.S.S.R. successfully launched earth satellites in October and November, 1957. The narrative which follows portrays some of the happenings in our environment when the BEEP-BEEPS descended upon us. I should mention, however, that any humor the reader may see in the latter-day remarks which constitute this diary was certainly nonexistent during the long, dreary 40 days and 40 nights when, in the wilderness of outer space, we were ``wrestling'' with these electronic invaders. It is only in retrospect that we can now smile."
"The Army was responsible for the installation and maintenance of six Minitrack stations for Project Vanguard. In addition, the Army responsibility included the electrical tracking of the artificial satellites from these stations. This paper outlines the actions taken by the Army in fulfilling these responsibilities."
"Many months of active participation in the satellite and missile observation program have resulted in a number of new and improved concepts which have been put to practical use in the establishment of the U.S. Army Signal Research and Development Laboratory's Astro-Observation Center, Fort Monmounth, N. J. This paper will describe the capabilities of the Research and Development station and several of the instrumentation techniques in use, including the use of phase-locked audio-frequency tracking filters, and high-speed digital readout equipment for precision Doppler measurements. The extreme flexibility of frequency coverage of the station has been of exceptional value in the rapid acquisition of signals transmitted from foreign satellites and space probes."
"A satellite and space vehicle tracking system of the Doppler type, known as DOPLOC, is described. The characteristics of the heart of the system, a phase-locked tracking filter, are discussed from the viewpoints of bandwidth, signal-to-noise ratio, and accuracy of Doppler frequency measurement. System sensitivity to low energy signals is shown to be 2 × 10-29 watts at a bandwidth of 1 cps. Tracking ranges vs frequency are given for constant gain and constant aperture antennas. The advantages of DOPLOC in satellite tracking programs are briefly discussed."
"This paper presents a method for determining the orbit of a satellite by observing, in the course of a single pass, the Doppler shift in the frequency of a CW signal transmitted from the ground and reflected by the satellite to one or more ground-based receivers at remote sites. The method is sufficiently general that, with minor modification, it may be applied to any type of satellite or ICBM tracking measurements. The computation consists of improving approximations for initial position and velocity components by successive differential corrections which are obtained from a least squares treatment of an over-determined system of condition equations while imposing elliptic motion as a constraint. Methods for obtaining approximations for the initial position and velocity components are likewise discussed. Results are presented for computations with typical input data."
"Based on precalculated data for the position and velocity vector of the injection points for the Explorers I through V, orbital elements are derived and compared with the actual orbital elements at injection time, calculated from position and velocity data obtained from radar measurements. Calculations are also made for the different orbital periods of a satellite perturbed by the Earth's oblateness. For Explorer I, it is shown that the actual orbital elements derived from tracking observations agree well with the actual elements derived from early astronomical observations."
"Several organizations participated in a program for testing receiver techniques used in tracking the low power transmitters carried on the space probe Pioneer IV. A meeting was held and presentations were made on each system tested This paper presents a summary and comparison of the results of the receiving techniques used to track the Pioneer IV. It also gives a brief description of the transmitter and antenna used on Pioneer IV."
"The U. S. Army Signal Research and Development Laboratory has been engaged in a series of analyses of satellite radio propagation. Some examples of the observations and their interpretation are given. Details have been published elsewhere in individual reports."
"This paper presents an analysis of a radio signal originating from a tumbling and rotating earth satellite. An equation is derived for the relative motion of the unit position vector pointing from the observer to the satellite with respect to the satellite coordinate system. From this, the amplitude variation of the ground received radio signal is calculated. It is further shown how a recording of this amplitude variation can be used to calculate the tumbling angle of the satellite in space. A simple example is given in which this angle between the normal of the plane of a satellite turnstile antenna system and a fixed axis in space is determined with the help of AGC recording. These recordings can be made either with linear or circular polarized receiving antenna. For future stabilized satellites, these derived equations can be used as an easy check of the operational condition of the stablization system itself."
"To satisfy already existing needs for higher precision in various time measurements, a world-wide system of synchronized clocks is required. One possible method for accomplishing such a system, the transportation of operating precision clocks, is discussed. Particular consideration is given to the use of atomic clocks in this connection, and methods of maintenance of synchronization by means of phase tracking of a central master clock via VLF transmissions are reviewed. Project WOSAC, a Signal Corps project of world-wide synchronization of atomic clocks based upon the principles discussed, is outlined and results already achieved are described."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Recounts the career and contributions of James Q. Brantley, Jr."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents a brief biography of Harold McD. Brown. Ile has been Commanding Officer at USASRDL since 1958."
"Provides a listing of current committee members."
"On June 21, 1960, the U. S. Army Signal Corps celebrated its 100th birthday-a century of service to the Army and the Nation. In the narrative which follows, particular attention is directed toward a few selected items of research which characterize the scientific past and present of the Corps; it is concluded by a look toward the future. Stressed are the facts that, over the years, signal research has had a profound effect on the nation's military posture, that this is of importance in periods of wartime stress, and finally, that the peace-time economy has also gained, both directly and indirectly, from much of this research. The article also includes a short summary of the Greely mission to the Arctic covering the period of 1881-1884-the tragedies of the expedition, and its scientific achievements. Looking ahead, the narrative concludes with a brief description of signal research in several areas which today show great promise as the nation moves forward into the unknown of tomorrow."
"The Army Signal Corps organization for research and development is described. Research and development and combat development are closely related in the Signal Corps. The Office of the Chief Signal Officer staff in Washington and five Signal Corps field agencies have responsibilities in these areas. The relations among these five agencies as well as coordination with other key Signal Corps activities are summarized."
"The Signal Corps' research and development and operational mission responsibilities have created capabilities which readily lend themselves to applications in the space electronics field. The past accomplishments in satellite electronics and in satellite ground support are highlighted and an outline of future work is given."
"This paper on the Courier satellite presents some of the background against which this experiment on an operational satellite communication system is being conducted. Details on the development, construction and testing of both the ground and orbiting segments of the system are outlined. Information on the results expected from the operational aspects of the experiment are also presented."
"This paper reviews the USASRDL exploratory-research program from its inception in 1958 to its current state of development. The treatment centers about three main parts: background and philosophy of exploratory research in the Signal Corps, implementation of the program at USASRDL, and major achievements. The introductory portion deals with a discussion of the motivation that led to a delineation of exploratory research as a modified basic-research concept, and the activation of an exploratory-research program. This discussion is followed by an exposition of the program and of the scientific areas that are currently being investigated. The article then gives a summary of the important accomplishments resulting from the program. A brief report is also given of plans for the initiation of new research tasks in the future."
"The U. S. Army Signal Research and Development Laboratory has long been interested in the effects of nuclear radiation on electronic components and materials. An historical account of USASRDL participation in earlier weapons tests is presented along with more recent efforts toward the evaluation of component operation during a burst of nuclear radiation using various pulsed reactor facilities. The radiation effects on some present-day components is briefly described, and possible directions of future efforts to develop radiation-resistant components and equipment are proposed."
"The paper discusses progress made in the field of frequency control over the past years, with emphasis on the contributions of the U. S. Army Signal Corps. The entire field is reviewed, including piezoelectric resonators and devices using atomic and molecular spectral lines. Several accomplishments which are thought to be of special importance are discussed in greater detail. These subjects include, among others: Properties of synthetic quartz, aging prediction of crystal units, new methods of temperature compensation for crystal units, piezoelectric crystals for the VHF range, measurement methods for piezoelectric resonators, cesium-beam frequency standards, ammonia maser, and gas cell devices."
"The role of the Signal Corps in developing the various techniques now being used to synthesize quartz crystals is reviewed from the standpoint of the quality of the material produced, growth rate, growth conditions, seed orientation, feed materials, cost, and suitability for production. Differences in the structure of synthetic quartz are indicated by variations in the optical absorption coefficients of X-irradiated quartz plates taken from different growth directions. The optical absorption measurements on the different types of synthetic quartz are compared with one another. Differences in the structure of natural and synthetic quartz are also indicated from measurements of Q made on 5-Mc high-precision resonators fabricated from samples of synthetic quartz grown under different conditions and from the occurrence of large absorption peaks at low temperatures (50°K) noted when measuring such resonators. Data is presented to show that synthetic quartz grown in the Z-direction possesses higher Q's than other quartz growth directions. None of the 5-Mc units made from synthetic quartz approach the high Q typical of natural quartz 5-Mc units between -60°C and 100°C. Comparison of the frequency temperature characteristics of overtone high frequency resonators made from synthetic quartz with those made from natural quartz show them to be about the same. The growth direction and impurity content, however, change the optimum orientation angle and inflection temperature. Resonators processed from synthetic quartz for operation in the 60-202-Mc range are shown to perform as satisfactorily as similar resonators made from natural quartz."
"The ferrite research and development program pursued by the Signal Corps over the past twelve years is reviewed and its most significant results are described. The discussion includes all major phases and sub-tasks under this program; such as the work on low-loss high-permeability materials for communication uses at frequencies from 0.1 to 500 Mc, square hysteresis loop ferrites for computer applications, work on permanent magnet materials, and materials for microwave applications up to 100 kMc. In addition, studies dealing with the effect of impurities, preparation techniques, grain size and other parameters on certain material characteristics are mentioned briefly. A list of publications originating from this work is included."
"Signal Corps transistors are discussed with special emphasis on device developments during the last five-year period, A generic development is presented starting with germanium and silicon alloy-junction transistors and leading to germanium and silicon diffused junction-type devices that reflect the extended frequency and power capability of the transistor. Devices developed under Signal Corps contracts are described and the importance of these new transistors for military and industrial use is illustrated. In addition, a graphic picture of the growth of the Signal Corps developments is included."
"The use of semiconductor integrated circuitry to reduce size and weight of military electronic systems is discussed. The pure semiconductor integrated circuit approach used to obtain micro-microminiaturization levels is reviewed and characterized. Described in this paper are the design and construction of a silicon integrated microcircuit. Results of examination of the electrical performance of the microcircuit are presented, including results of examination of the thermal behavior of the microcircuit. The silicon structure is analyzed in terms of internal and external geometry, material properties, and electrical performance."
"In essence, the communication specialist in the field with his complex electronic gear and the native who beats a hollow log both perform the same function-communication over a distance. However, there is no gainsaying that the hollow log is undoubtedly the more reliable of the two communication equipments. The implication of this analogy is not as far fetched as it may appear. It has been found that considerable circuit simplification with a consequent increased reliability are attainable through the application to electronic circuits of the mechanical and acoustic properties of certain materials. Miniaturized, rugged, low cost, highly selective band-pass filters ranging from 100 cps to approximately 10 Mc are feasible. Power transformers without core or coil are definite possibilities. Stable delay media provide large delays in small simple packages. Hybrid structures of conventional parts and nonconventional resonators provide techniques for broadbanding and impedance transformation. A new element, it is expected, will soon be generated for use at low frequencies-a passive four-terminal nonreciprocal network."
"This paper discusses the development programs for a klystron, a magnetron, and various duplexing and switching devices for the 70-kMc region of the radio frequency spectrum during the last decade. An evaluation of the electrical performance and of the behavior under environmental conditions for these devices is also discussed. It is concluded that the quality and performance of the devices make system application feasible. Sections I and II describe the klystron and magnetron program. Section III describes the switching devices program."
"This paper describes the results of an experimental investigation conducted to determine the effectiveness of a traveling-wave tube used as a harmonic generator. It is shown that harmonics of a low frequency applied to one of the gun electrodes will be amplified by the helix and will appear at the output of the traveling-wave tube as a ``picket fence'' of RF signals. The paper describes the experimental techniques used and discusses the test results obtained, Among the parameters considered are carrier-to-noise ratio, uniformity of power output, and stability of the harmonics produced. Possible applications of a traveling-wave-tube harmonic generator are also discussed."
"Portable electrical power sources are being used in increasing numbers for a variety of applications on the ground and in outer space. The trend to miniaturization and transistorization has accelerated this practice. Chemical, nuclear, and solar energy are the three prime sources that are being used in power sources which will fulfill the new requirements. Each of these sources, in combination with new electrical conversion devices, has advantageous and unique characteristics which make it desirable for this application. The characteristics of various types of recently developed electrical power sources are described and compared, and data are presented which illustrate the best operating conditions for each system."
"This paper is an historical account of the trend in development of U. S. Army high-frequency mobile radio communications of medium power in the period 1940 to 1960. Starting with one of the first really mobile sets of this power level, in a wide variety of installation configurations to meet World War II requirements, it relates the progressive fulfillment of higher traffic handling capabilities in both single and multivehicle installations. The increasing demand for smaller but higher capacity equipments indicates the course which future development efforts should follow."
"Combat communications equipment is a highly specialized weapon in its own right. USASRDL has been an important factor in the development of combat communications and in the establishment of an industrial design capability for such equipment. An example is given by tracing the growth of Army multichannel communication systems from the radio-link equipment of the Tunisian campaign, through ``backbone'' radio relay employment exemplified by radio sets AN/TRC-1, AN/TRC-24, and AN/TRC-29, into tactical-mobile systems giving area coverage using AN/GRC-50, 53, 59 and 66 equipment. Important milestones of concept and technique changes illustrate the continued progress towards reliable tactical radio communications."
"In 1956, the U.S. Army Signal Corps was directed to undertake the development of automatic data processing (ADP) systems for the Army in the field. The development of a mobile, general purpose, digital computer, named MOBIDIC, was initiated concurrently with an Army-wide analysis of the specific tactical application-in which it could suitably be used. As the application studies progressed, it became evident that a family of computers was required for the different tactical echelons. The FIELDATA Equipment Program evolved and is now current for this purpose. This program encompasses major activities in computer design, programming techniques, data transmission equipment, input-output equipment, advanced techniques, and human factors studies, the last named being considered most critical for successful tactical usage of ADP. A set of standards has been formulated and adopted for all FIELDATA equipment in the factors of alphanumeric code, control function code, computer word structure, computer order code and equipment interconnection methods. The first MOBIDIC has been delivered to the U. S. Army Signal Research and Development Laboratory, Fort Monmouth, N. J., and is now undergoing acceptance and evaluation testing. A crash program was recently assigned to the Signal Corps for the construction and delivery in this calendar year of a MOBIDIC especially arranged for a large-scale logistics function of the Seventh U. S. Army in Europe. The total Signal Corps role in this program includes equipment design and fabrication, system analysis and programming, troop training, and initial system operation."
"Plans for a new commnunication network, for a military theater of operations, have been under consideration since the end of World War II. It is axiomatic that a commnon user communication system, in which channels of communication are shared among a large number of users, must provide means whereby these channels are used with a maximum efficiency. In such a system, efficiency of operation depends to a large extent on the rapidity with which a large volume of communication traffic can be switched throughout the network, with a minimum of time being expended in setting up and taking down numerous connections. This article recounits the history of the development of a communication channel switching system as dictated by changing military requirements, accenting wide dispersal and mobility and the effect of this system concept on the design of military commnunication switching equipment. Early efforts to improve manually operated switchboards are described, with the aim of making clear the logical sequence of ideas leading to the development of the military four-wire automatic electronic switching system, now nearing completion. This automatic system is described in some detail as to its operating characteristics, and the reasoning behind the equipment design is discussed. The organized program to insure reliability of operation carried on concurrently with the equipment development is outlined and results described. Finally, the shape of things to come in military electronics switching equipment, as a logical next step from the point where it now stands, is prognosticated."
"During the past sixty years, attempts have been made to develop electronically-controllable circuit elements to be applied to filter networks in tunable receivers and transmitters. Both the polarization of the dielectric material used in the construction of capacitors and the permeability of the ferrite core material used in inductor design, lend themselves to electronic variation; in fact, the change in the incremental permeability of a magnetizable material in the presence of a superimposed varying magnetic field was patented as early as 1901. Usable circuit elements, however, were not realizable for application in the frequency ranges above 100 kc, nor did the available materials provide the desired characteristics for modern filter design of receivers and transmitters. USASRDL initiated a program in 1948 to investigate the problems associated with electronically variable inductances. New ferrite materials were developed and a better understanding of the over-all problem obtained. This program grew in magnitude, calling upon the efforts of both universities and commercial organizations, in addition to the internal effort within this laboratory. The outcome is a family of controllable inductances, electronically tunable in the frequency range dc to 500 Mc with reasonable Q's, power requirements, and small in size and weight. Large frequency variations are obtainable and they are usable under environmental conditions of temperature, humidity and vibration encountered in field conditions."
"This paper contains a brief summary of the Signal Corps' contribution to the antenna art. Emphasis is on the post World War II period and on microwave antennas. Only developments which have had reasonably wide application are discussed."
"The modern Army will place greater demands on communication requirements for capacity, range and mobility. To meet these demands with conventional equipment results in a serious increase of manpower. The encouraging possibility of employing tropospheric scatter equipment to augment and possibly replace some conventional equipments has distinct advantages. This paper surveys the basic requirements of a tropospheric scatter system and expands them to fulfill the requirements of tactical employment. Subjects such as range and frequency dependence, effect of horizon angle, modulation techniques, and antenna gain degradation are reviewed to develop the technical foundation of a tactical system. The additional requirements of mobility, simplicity, and quick response are added to present a system designed for tactical utilization. Actual results obtained over a number of paths with digital data and facsimile transmissions are presented. The paper concludes with a discussion of inherent problems in tropospheric systems and the developments required to alleviate some of the difficulties."
"A number of factors which contributed to the establishment of the Army's Electromagnetic Environmental Test Facility (EETF) at the U. S. Army Electronic Proving Ground are reviewed. Technical planning to date covering the layout, organization and operation of the EETF is summarized. Finally, predictions as to the possible future scientific role and activity of the EETF are made."
"Signal Corps pioneering in the design and development of U. S. Army field telephones is discussed. Explanation is given of the military need for the new features and performance improvements desired in field telephones, and of the methods whereby these new requirements were resolved by Signal Corps engineers. In each instance, the Signal-Corps-developed field-telephone sets performed better than contemporary commercial telephone sets. A few of the Signal Corps inventions and innovations have been adopted by the U. S. telephone industry and incorporated into the design of the latest subscribers' telephone sets, whose improved performance is now comparable to that of present standard Signal-Corps-developed field-telephone sets. The new features of the recently developed, fully transistorized, Signal Corps field-telephone set for use with the completely automatic, electronic-switching, military-communication system are also discussed. The novel circuit features of this telephone make it possible, for the first time, to have a subscriber's line carry only voice-frequency currents at voice-frequency communications level."
"Following an introduction which establishes the fact that increased fire power of modem armies has increased the requirement of those armies for long range combat surveillance and target acquisition capabilities, this article highlights the four basic management problems involved in the combat surveillance R&D field: 1) The initial establishment of relationships with industry, other Signal Corps establishments, other branches of the Army, other Services, and with U. S. CONARC, principal user of the equipment. 2) The development of a logical program. 3) The development of the Combat Surveillance Agency itself as an organization. 4) The development of a technique for monitoring each program and for supervising the agencies, corporations, etc., involved in the various steps of the program. The solutions that management has applied in order to resolve these problems are discussed in sequence. These solutions include the liaison and information exchange function, a three-pronged program objective, the \"systems manager\" type of organization and its merits, and a discussion of the \"line of balance\" chart monitoring system."
"Some of the characteristics of modern warfare which contribute to the difficulty of combat surveillance are summarized. Functions required of modern combat surveillance and techniques of performing these functions are outlined. The role of the Signal Corps in combat surveillance development is discussed, and current developments in combat surveillance are discussed, with particular emphasis on problem areas."
"The accomplishments of the Signal Corps Laboratories in the development of radar are described with emphasis on the pre-World War II period. The development and evolution of early warning radar and fire control radar in the Army are treated in some detail. The ground radars used in combat during the war by the Army (including the Army Air Corps) are discussed."
"The U. S. Army Signal Research and Development Laboratory has developed several types of radar equipment to fulfill the combat requirements of the Field Army. To aid in obtaining an all-weather continuous surveillance capability, the AN/PPS-4 and AN/TPS-25 ground radar sets were developed. To extend and supplement their coverage of the combat zone, the AN/APS-94 airborne radar was developed. Locating weapons of interest is another important function of combat surveillance. The AN/MPQ-4 mortar locator was developed for this purpose."
"This paper presents some of the problems associated with the Signal Corps search for a suitable Doppler navigator for both lightweight fixed wing and rotary wing aircraft. The unique approaches discussed in detail are: The choice of a lightweight 3-axis stabilized antenna, position computation and display in cartesian coordinates for compatibility with Universal Transverse Mercator charts, a moving bug map display, a tape display of absolute and barometric altitude, and an integrated instrument system displaying navigation and flight information for all weather operation. These various components are combined to furnish the Army with a truly automatic self-contained navigation and flight instrument system."
"This article describes the development of electronic meteorological instrumentation at USASRDL from the early days of 1930, when practically no electronic equipment was employed for meteorological purposes, down to the present time. The discussion covers the development of radiosondes at high, VHF, and microwave frequencies, radio wind-finding equipment both manual and automatic, dropsondes to measure the temperature and humidity when dropped from an airplane and carried to earth on a parachute, weather radar equipment, sferics equipment for locating thunderstorms, rocketsondes, and other meteorological equipment. The history of various developments is presented as well as technical considerations which led to the engineering solutions to the various problems as they arose. The entire development program is related to progress in the field of meteorology and the usages of weather information which produced the urgency for developing the new types of electronic equipment."
"Early in the history of White Sands Missile Range a runaway V-2 missile indicated the need for better missile flight surveillance. Modified SCR-584 radars were soon after established as the basic source of surveillance data. Further modifications to the system made reliable all-weather trajectory data, readily achieved by radar. The development and implementation of the AN/FPS-16 radar at White Sands Missile Range represents the product of years of engineering to create a precision radar instrumentation system."
"The Dynamic Target and Countermeasures Simulator described herein was developed at the U. S. Army Signal Missile Support Agency Laboratories, White Sands Missile Range, Las Cruces, N. M., by a group of Signal Corps engineers and technicians, utilizing components from scrapped radars and standard RF test equipment. This versatile simulator can be used to test existing radars for signal saturation and electronic counter-countermeasures techniques, such as regulating RF and video gain, contrast, etc. Provision is made to simulate antenna patterns and to vary the size of the target from 0.1 to 100 square meters. The expense involved in training radar operators to cope with raids involving hundreds of aircraft has led to the development of various target simulators. As the state-of-the-art in electronic countermeasures (ECM) improved, it became apparent that ECM simulation was also necessary to train radar operators under the conditions that would prevail when aircraft would be radiating thousands of watts of jamming power. Most of the simulators developed used IF or video injection of target signals in the simulator and did not provide the realism desired or allow the radar operator to exercise electronic counter-countermeasures (ECCM) techniques effectively. The problem then became one of realistic simulation of both target and jamming signals. Field experience at White Sands Missile Range (WSMR) had demonstrated that simulation could be accomplished most effectively at the RF level. This finding, by WSMR engineers, led to the design and development of the Dynamic Target and Countermeasures Simulator."
"This paper discusses the reasons which lead the Signal Corps to investigate different nonsilver halide photographic processes, and to select electrophotography as the subject of a major research and development effort. The problems inherent in the process are discussed and several methods with which it was attempted to evolve a workable procedure are shown. In particular, the research directed toward increasing the spectral response and over-all sensitivity of selenium layers, as well as of other semiconductors, is outlined. Other problems discussed are spontaneous decay of the charge in the dark, plate fatigue, and after-images. The different approaches to the conversion of the electrostatic latent image into a visible, permanent image are discussed, including liquid spray and immersion methods, dry ``cascade'' and powder cloud development. Emphasis in the discussion is on the powder cloud method and its related problems: selection of the most suitable powder material, uniformity of particle size, polarity and amount of charge of the particles, design of suitable cloud generators, particle agglomeration. It is shown that certain problems inherent in the powder development on selenium plates can be simplified by first transferring the electrostatic latent image from the reusable selenium to the permanent carrier, and developing on this carrier. The paper finally discusses the possibilities for future developments and applications, and calls attention to a comprehensive list of pertinent patents available to readers on request."
"Signal Corps and general military electronic R&D procurement is undergoing continuing evolution in technology, techniques and controls, which have direct influence on industrial planning, management and operations. The close partnership of military and industry requires cognizance of and response to these pressures. Systems procurements generate the industrial ``team effort'' approach. Small business is gaining a strong foothold in the R&D effort through diversity of electronic research. Certain aspects of R&D are stimulating a limited move towards greater use of fixed price contracts. New trends have effect on industry approach to preparation of bid proposals and the military techniques of evaluation. Engineering efforts require management comptroller surveillance to avoid cost problems. Over-runs in cost contracts are being subjected to increasing military controls and limitations with serious effects on contractor management techniques. Contract management in industry is evaluated in terms of effective response to procurement trends."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"The document that should appear here is not currently available."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Kinematical observations of the solar system have attained an accuracy reached in few other areas of measurement. The adequate description of these observations requires an elaborate and accurate terminology. This paper defines and discusses most of the important terms, coordinate systems, and methods of time reckoning which are used by astronomers in describing the motion of the solar system. No previous background in astronomy on the part of the reader is required. Warning is also given concerning terms whose meanings look obvious, but which in fact do not mean what they seem to."
"A technique was developed at the Naval Air Missile Test Center to determine energy spectra of an FM system which has a low Beta, a high deviation ratio, and a modulation frequency which approaches the carrier frequency. Ths technique may be used for analysis of any FM wave and yields theoretical results which conform closely to actual operating results."
"The increasing emphasis on higher and higher operating and/or storage temperatures for data acquisition apparatus requires a critical appraisal of the behavior of available magnetic recording tapes as their rated operating limits are approached or exceeded. Among the criteria that bear examination are the dimensional stability, strength and toughness of the substrate, and the chemical stability of the binder and the magnetic material. Unexpected physical effects can be experienced within the generally accepted ``safe'' environmental limits. Critical temperatures and observed effects are described."
"The paper is concerned with the causes and characteristics of threshold behavior in pulse-averaging and phase-coherent (``phase-locked loop'') FM subcarrier discriminators. An analytical discussion of the basic elements of each form of discriminator is first presented, leading to a comparison of the devices for input modulation indices of one and five, in the presence of noise. For the first time in the literature, the effect of additional output filtering following the ideal phase-coherent loop is discussed. Finally, the requisite modulation characteristics for an improved threshold in a phase-locked loop discriminator are presented, followed by a brief description of the approaches which may be taken in the design of such a system."
"The Astronautic chart is a nomograph or alignment chart so arranged that a single straight line marks off values of the velocity, mass, mean distance, period, and acceleration of any two-body orbiting system. It is illustrated with numerous examples of orbits of planets about the sun, moons about their planets, and artificial earth satellites. All scales give correct values at the extremities of the minor diameter of the elliptical orbit. In the case of binary stars where the masses are comparable, the scales also give correct values of the total mass, total separation, relative velocity, and relative acceleration."
"The growing complexity of data-handling systems and the need for less complicated and smaller decommutation devices led to the development of the PAM/PDM decommutation station shown in Fig. 1. The PAM/PDM data-handling capability of this station is 100 channels and, for the system shown, the utilized panel space is 26 1/4 inches."
"The stations described recover doppler frequencies to an accuracy of one part in 109 and subcarrier oscillator frequencies to 15 kc bandwidths. Coherent phase detection and a tracking local oscillator to minimize required reception bandwidth maximizes signal sensitivity. Station portability accommodates rapid changes of location as dictated by satellite projects and the flexibility of the receiving and recording equipment due to unitized construction permits inexpensive modifications to accommodate present and future satellite programs."
"The accurate tracking and telemetering of space probes requires the use of very sensitive receiving equipment and large antennas. The TRAC(E) system developed by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory utilizes an 85-foot-diameter, equatorially mounted, parabolic reflector. The antenna, similar to those used for radio astronomy, is located near Goldstone Lake near Barstow, Calif. The mechanical and electrical characteristics of the antenna and its subsystems are discussed, and its performance and the way it was used in tracking the lunar probe Pioneer IV are described. Limitations imposed on the space communication system by the ground antenna are discussed, and possible methods of improvement are listed."
"The Inter-Range Instrumentation Group (IRIG) was established in 1952 by the commanders of the United States guided missile test ranges, principally for the purpose of facilitating the interchange of information on range instrumentation. Today, the IRIG consists of a Steering Committee and ten Technical Working Groups. Among other activities, the IRIG prepares and disseminates recommended standards and other documents (such as glossaries of terms and catalogs of range instruments) to advance the range instrumentation art."
"One of the ten Technical Working Groups of the IRIG (Inter-Range Instrumentation Group, established by the commanders of the United States guided missile test range), is the Telemetry Working Group (TWG). Among other activities, the TWG has prepared several System Standards that have been published as IRIG Recommendations."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Many short range missiles are guided in angle or range by optical means. Since these missiles are usually caused to roll in flight for stability reasons, some type of roll position reference device is necessary. The only type of roll reference device in use is a gyro, although various horizon scanners, Doppler, and optical methods have been considered. This paper describes an optical method of roll reference which utilizes the relative positions of two flares of different color attached to the rear of the missile. Since the roll position is known at the launch point, commands to the missile are commutated at the launch point rather than in the missile as is necessary when a gyro or other missile-borne roll reference device is used. Thus, the roll tracker removes from the missile two subsystems (gyro and commutator) while adding two components (two colored flares)."
"A frequency-multiplex FM-AM system is described which provides six continuous channels via which waveforms with frequency components in the approximate band 10 cps to 10 kc may be simultaneously telemetered; extension of the frequency coverage to include the band 0-10 cps is achieved by the use of commutated reference levels. A radio frequency in the 465-mcs band and subcarrier frequencies between 250 and 500 kc are used. A short historical introduction is followed by description of the system and of units of the flight and ground equipment, and details of operational results. Future uses of the system are discussed and methods of increasing the useful range are suggested."
"The future role of frequency-division multiplex telemetry is discussed and related to the sampled data problem of time-division multiplex telemetry. It is concluded that the frequency-division method will continue to have important applications and the question is raised regarding what is a desirable frequency-division system on which to standardize in the future. An examination of the shortcomings of the FM-FM system and the electronics state of the art leads to the proposal of an FM-AM system to replace the FM-FM system. The AM radio link would be of synchronous type, without threshold, so that the FM-AM system is properly viewed as an FM system with frequency conversion. This has important advantages in spectrum utilization, receiving station design, and data reduction."
"The effects of two limiting types of video filters (namely the ideal low-pass vertical cutoff herein called the ILPF and the Gaussian) on the performance of PDM-FM are compared. It is found that minimum allowable pulse height controls the minimum allowed bandwidth of the Gaussian filter and if crosstalk suppression of 50 to 60 db is required, crosstalk controls the minimum allowed bandwidth of the ILPF. In PCM-FM using the sampling video detector, the critical effect is the overlapping of pulses at sampling time; using the integrating detector, the critical effect is the difference in area under the pulse with adjacent pulses not present and the area with no pulse present but the two adjacent pulses present. In general, the results of the theory agree well with experimental results of Aeronutronic [8] and aid in their interpretation."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This page or pages intentionally left blank."
"This is a tutorial presentation of various considerations involved in the synchronization problem for PCM time-division multiplex telemetry. Information rates required for establishing and maintaining sychronization are noted. The great difference between real-time synchronization and synchronization in post-time data reduction is emphasized. Several synchronization schemes are discussed."
"The capabilities and limitations of a specific flight path control law for range maneuvering during the atmospheric phase of re-entry from orbit, as determined by a digital computer study, are presented. Results of this study demonstrate that a relatively simple guidance and flight path control loop, utilizing a preprogrammed normalized trajectory plus vehicle velocity and range-to-go measurements, is very effective; range dispersions of more than ± 100 nautical miles, caused by initial conditions or to uncertainties in lift-to-drag ratio, are reduced to less than one nautical mile. Variations in terminal accuracy are evolved as functions of control law gain, velocity measurement errors (via inertial guidance or ground radar tracking) and severe head winds."
"The command link described was developed for use with a radar tracked, surface-to-surface guided missile. However, it has features which are applicable to a variety of other uses, wherever communications must be disguised and coded to prevent undesired interference, and to insure secrecy. The command link is of the time division variety, utilizing a pseudorandom command code, which code pulses are interspersed among a completely random set of pulses. A large variation is possible in the time between successive command pulses, in the time between complete commands, in the time of a complete command, in the time between random pulses (maximum and minimum values), and in the nature of the pseudorandomness. Automatic and continuous synchronism between transmitter and receiver is maintained by transmitting at intervals (not necessarily periodic) a single synchronizing pulse which is a part of the pseudorandom code. The synchronizing action can also be obtained from any or all of the other commands without the need for a separate synchronizing pulse, if desired. Note that the synchronizing pulses are nonperiodic, and are fully encoded. The synchronizing process in the receiver is unique in that a single pulse received does the job. The circuit utilizes 3-stage counter, operated continually in a counting mode from an internal oscillator, with the received synchronizing pulse resetting the counter to a fixed count. This reset serves to introduce a fixed time delay between the received pulse and the output of the third stage."
"The magnetometer described in this paper was designed for the purpose of measuring the distant geomagnetic and interplanetary magnetic fields. The sensing element is a coil fixed in the frame of a spinning vehicle. The associated nonlinear amplifier has a dynamic range of approximately three decades and an equivalent noise threshold of 6.0 microgauss. This system has been flown in the Pioneer I, Explorer VI and Pioneer V payloads to detect both absolute magnitude and directional changes in the magnetic field intensity at great distances. The complete unit enclosed in an RF shielded container weighs one pound."
"The systems for acquisition and reduction of telemetry data for 1959 Delta (Explorer VI) and 1960 Alpha (Pioneer V) are described. These include an analog and a digital system in Explorer VI and a digital system in Pioneer V. The discussion covers digitization of data in the payloads, methods of handling and recording data on the ground, reduction techniques, and the procedures used to disengage signal from noise during periods when the SNR was low."
"The spectra of FM signals corresponding to various pulse shapes (of relevance in PCM work) are determined. The corresponding demodulated output pulse shapes in a limiter-discriminator receiving system have also been obtained. Both analytical and graphical results are given."
"In a majority of timing applications, a problem exists in setting two or more clocks to agree with one another. Present techniques using WWV or other HF broadcasts allow clocks to be synchronized within 1 msec. This paper describes a method which offers an improvement in synchronization of three orders of magnitude. Microsecond synchronization is obtained by use of the Loran-C navigation system as the link between a master clock at Boulder, Colorado and any slaved clock anywhere in the Loran-C service area. The timing system also includes a unique method for distribution of several time code formats on a single UHF channel."
"If a system of communications satellites is uncontrolled after launching, service interruptions are inevitable. The amount of interruption depends on the number of satellites, their altitude, the orbit inclinations, the distance between ground stations, the acceptable signal-to-noise ratio, and other parameters. Various relations between these quantities are presented in tables and graphs, and are illustrated by examples."
"This paper discusses the circuitry, the electrical specifications, the environmental specifications, and the method of calibration of a completely transistorized true root-mean-square voltage discriminator. The circuitry is broken into four separate operational circuits, each of which is discussed in relation to what it does and what its relationship to the other configurations is. The specifications of the discriminator are discussed along with a detailed explanation of the method employed in calibration of the module with nonsinusoidal waveforms."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"A technique is described for detecting specific sequences of pulses occurring on a net of input lines. This technique lends itself to realization in all-magnetic networks by the use of multi-aperture magnetic devices (MAD's). The resulting circuits are remarkably simple and reliable. Processing rates in excess of 100,000 characters per second may be achieved. Examples are given of systems using arrays of such detectors. One example involves a system for detecting handwritten characters which makes use of a special pen having the property of generating specific sequences of pulses as symbols are written. The second example relates to the problem of monitoring text for the detection of specific words (letter sequences) and phrases (series of sequences)."
"The concept that the junction transistor is a charge-controlled current source is reviewed. Saturated operation and non-saturated operation are defined on the basis of minority and majority carrier distributions in the base region. Several common emitter switching circuits are analyzed. The switching efficiency, a figure of merit based on the charge storage properties of the transistor, is introduced. Saturated and nonsaturated operation are compared on the basis of switching efficiency, transient waveforms, stability of the voltage levels, power dissipation, noise rejection and suppression ablity, and circuit complexity. Currently-used antisaturation techniques are discussed."
"This paper analyzes the conventional uses of magnetic switch cores to drive matrix stores in both current-driven and voltage-driven modes. A new method of using switch cores is proposed and analyzed which offers, at the cost of replacing in every selection line the usual switch-core and terminating resistor by two smaller cores, intrinsic pulse shaping and amplitude regulation, and much reduced power dissipation, particularly in the driving stages. Constructional details of an application of the new method to drive a store 100×80×10 are given, and waveforms for this store are shown. All address decoding and driving are performed by 34 transistors. A model of a multiple coincidence store 101×101 with a cycle time of 1 μsec has also been constructed; details are given."
"Memories using toroidal ferrite cores with cycle timies less than a microsecond are described; the selection ratio is increased by the use of biasing and the multiple coincidence principles of Minnick and Ashenhurst.1 It is shown that this mode of operation leads to important changes in the structure of the store; in particular, the classical core switch does not fulfll the new requirements. The ``two-core switch'' is then briefly described; it permits an elegant and economic solution of the problems arising at high selection ratios. Details of the design and operation of memories embodying these ideas are given; it is shown, for example, that standard core memory matrices can be used very efficiently at a selection ratio of 3:1 to achieve a cycle time of 2 microseconds. Further illustrations are given from a model of a 100×100 store operated at 4:1 and 7:1 selection ratios, and it is shown that a store of 10,000 8-bit characters with a cycle time of 0.25 microsecond is feasible."
"A twistor is an anisotropic ferromagnetic cylindrical wire with nonmagnetic core. The intrinsic magnetization flux curls in helical sense in the wire and has an air return path. Many field problems must be solved for their successful use as information storage elements. For instance, the demagnetizing field in the wire causes instability of storage and therefore must be reduced by suitable geometry of the twistor. The flux lines emanating from a bit link neighboring windings and also impose a magnetic field intensity in neighboring bits. The interactions, although undesirable in packing bits in a memory array, can be used to advantage as operating forces in logical devices.1 This paper analyzes the demagnetizing field in a twistor bit, based on the geometrical model of a confocal hollow prolate spheroid and the magnetic characterization of the material by B = μ0(H+M) where M is the intrinsic magnetization, constant in magnitude, but oriented by the external field. Demagnetizing factors for confocal hollow prolate spheroids are plotted against length-to-diameter ratio and wall thickness. Expressions for field intensities outside a twistor bit are given. Analogies between twistors and thin films are examined."
"This paper presents the design of a parallel digital computer utilizing a 20-μsec core memory and a diode storage microprogram unit. The machine is intended as an on-line controller and is organized for ease of maintenance. A word length of 19 bits provides 31 orders referring to memory locations. Fourteen bits are used for addressing, 12 for base address, one for index control, and one for indirect addressing. A 32nd order permits the address bits to be decoded to generate special functions which require no address. The logic of the machine is resistor-transistor; the arithmetic unit is a bus structure which permits many variants of order structure. In order to make logical decisions, a ``general-purpose'' logic unit has been incorporated so that the microcoder has as much freedom in this area as in the arithmetic unit."
"Five fairly representative members of the class of two-summand binary adders are described and evaluated. Hopefully, this will help the development of more general approaches to computer subsystems evaluation. The adders are evaluated on the basis of three quantities: the number of two-input AND gates and OR gates, G; the gate-normalized addition time, τ; and the number of bits, n, in each summand. Three plausible formulas for computational efficiency, η, are postulated, and plotted vs n for the five adders. Based on a comparison of the resulting curves, the following efficiency formula seems preferable: η = n/τlog2G. Of the five adders considered, the new ``conditional-sum adder'' is best by the above formula when n≥ 3. Other adders, however, are shown to be superior when the assumptions underlying the evaluation of G and τ are changed. The evaluation is found to have several limitations; these are discussed. Curves of G and τ vs n are given. It is suggested that these curves can serve as raw data for other evaluations, so that various evaluation methods may be compared."
"Conditional-sum addition is a new mechanism for parallel, high-speed addition of digitally-represented numbers. Its design is based on the computation of ``conditional'' sums and carries that result from the assumption of all the possible distributions of carries for various groups of columns. A rapid-sequence mode of operation provides an addition rate that is invariant with the lengths of the summands. Another advantage is the possibility of realizing the adder with ``integrated devices'' or ``modules.'' The logic of conditional-sum addition is applicable to all positive radices, as well as to multisummand operation. In a companion paper, a comparison of several adders shows that, within a set of stated assumptions, conditional-sum addition is superior in certain respects, including processing speed."
"A class of counters is described in which the number of 1's in the flip-flops or register stages composing the counter remains constant as the counter advances from state to state. Simple digital circuit arrangements are described for the design of such counters, which may be used with a particular type of decoding tree as economical ring-type counters, to provide a separate output lead for each state. Some interesting theoretical questions concerning the minimization of these decoding trees are raised and partially answered. Finally, the costs of these counters are compared with one another, and with those of other types of counters, over a continuous range of values of the flip-flop/gate-input cost ratio."
"This paper describes a new algebraic way of determining irredundant forms from the prime implicants. The method does not require using the developed normal form, and it makes novel application of Quine's technique of iterative consensus-taking. Thus, by applying repeatedly the rule of consensus to the prime implicants, it is possible to derive alist of implication relations that express the necessary and sufficient conditions of eliminability of the prime implicants in terms of which the irredundant normal forms can be computed. The extension of Quine's technique to this phase of simplification serves to shorten considerably the logical machinery needed for complete solution of the simplification problem. By the same token, it renders the method suitable for use with a digital computer."
"A new electronic slicer circuit produces output pulses whenever a random input voltage x(t) is between two slicing levels X - Δx/2 and X+Δx/2. The slicer pulses gate a counter to produce a direct digital readout count equal to the estimated first-order probability density of the input signal. The system was designed for random process studies with conventional electronic analog computers and has compatible accuracy."
"An important field of application for computers is in real-time systems simulation. This requires the generation of non-linear functions, obtaining the sums and products of these functions and solving systems of nonlinear differential equations. A new type of analog computer suitable for systems simulation is described which combines the desirable features of the digital and analog computers in its mode of operation. Variables are represented by the time interval between pulses. Utilizing a few basic components, it is possible to carry out the operations of addition, subtraction, multiplication and function generation to 0.1 per cent accuracy."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"This paper is divided into two parts. In the first part, the basic tunnel diode logic circuits are discussed. These include the monostable and the bistable analog-threshold gates and the ``Goto-pair,'' which uses the principle of majority decision. These circuits are studied to determine the requirement on tunnel diodes and other component tolerances. Relations between the ``fan-in'' and the ``fan-out'' numbers and the component tolerances are derived. The results indicate that the ``Goto-pair'' is somewhat superior to the analog-threshold gates with respect to circuit reliability. In the second part, a tunnel diode flip-flop stage which has advantages with respect to speed, ease, of operation and component tolerances is described. Combination of these flip-flops in counter and shift-register configurations have been successfully operated. Several potential advantages over conventional transistor circuits are discussed."
"A system of circuit logic is described in which transistors, particularly diffused base transistors, are operated well out of saturation in order to make the most of their speed. Logical information is contained in the presence or absence of a current which can be switched or routed by the gates described. Also described is the application of this system of logic to certain specific computer problems, namely, a parallel adder with a carry propagation time of 40 mμsec over 6 stages, a shifting register capable of operating at 10 mc and a binary decoder with a maximum delay of 40 mμsec."
"An analysis is made of the modes of magnetization reversal and rotation in thin ferromagnetic films. The ways in which the various modes can be employed for destructive and non-destructive memories are discussed and their performance limitations considered. Existing film memory efforts are partially surveyed and the material and system problems are examined. Possible future developments are also discussed."
"High-frequency magnetic film parametrons have been made and observed to exhibit two- or three-state operation for a single bias condition. As a two-stable-state device, the magnetic film parametron can be used as a majority decision element in much the same way as the ferrite core parametron. Another useful logical two-state device is a threshold element, in which the input excitation must reach a minimum level to sustain oscillations. The magnetic film inductor, when suitably clocked, can be used as a gate to permit unilateral flow of information in a system. The gating action, controlled by the bias field, can result from the rectified output of a parametron. Proposed logical designs for a two-element binary adder, a binary shift counter, and a shift register are presented. The possibilities of three-state operation are also explored in the logical design of a seven-element ternary full adder."
"An initial application of the dynamics and interactions of domains within continuous magnetic thin film structures is made to a shift register in which binary information is stored and translated in and along a continuous evaporated thin magnetic film. These thin magnetic film shift registers are capable of storing information having a density of several hundred bits per square inch of vacuum evaporated structure and of translating this amount of information at bit rates in excess of a megacycle with powers of less than 10 watts."
"The Fluxlok memory technique uses the principle of cross-field magnetization to achieve the nondestructive sensing of the information state of standard, readily available, ferrite memory cores in a simply wired memory plane. Bipolar output (ONE and ZERO) signals are obtained at the rate of rise of the READ pulse. The signals are unaffected by test temperatures of from ߝ65°C to +100°C. Coincident current WRITE operation or an inherent orthogonal field WRITE may be used. A 2-mc 64-word Fluxlok memory test vehicle is described."
"A servo-operated delay-line pad and a temperature-compensated delay-line memory, both magnetostrictively driven at 1.5 mc, have been used in an experimental PCM communication system.1 The delay-line pad automatically compensates for external delay changes as small as plus or minus 8 mμsec at a rate of 75 mμsec second. The delay-line memory stores 192 bits which are available serially with an access time of 125 μsec. Both applications use the same basic delay lines which consist of a length of 0.003-inch diameter supermendur wire, two tiny solenoids, and a supporting structure."
"The most important property of the codes derived in this paper is that two numbers, i and j, have coded forms, C(i) and C(j) that when added in a conventional binary adder, give a sum C(i)+C(j) that differs from C(i+j), the code for the sum, by (at most) an additive constant. This makes possible the detection and/or correction of errors committed by the arithmetic element of a computer. In addition, messages can be coded and decoded and errors can be detected and corrected by arithmetic procedures, making it possible to elininate some or all of the special-purpose equipment usually associated with error-detecting or correcting codes. This property may make these codes useful for data transmission as well as for computation."
"Recent developments in computer technology have produced devices (parametrons, Esaki diodes) that act logically as binary majority-decision elements. Conventional design techniques fail to utilize fully the logical properties of these devices. The resulting designs are extravagant with respect to the number of components used and the operating time required. This paper reviews the conventional technique briefly and proposes an alternative method that produces more nearly minimal designs."
"A parenthesis-free notation is introduced for the representation of series-parallel switching networks. The notation facilitates the calculation of circuit parameters and permits an unambiguous characterization of the circuit topology. Given certain criteria for feasibility of a switching network related to the circuit parameter values, it is shown how an infeasible series-parallel network can be transformed into an equivalent feasible network by ``cascading'' operations applied to the two-terminal sub-networks of the original network. A systematic method is developed, resulting in an optimum choice of cascading operations such that the number of switching elements required to implement the transformed circuit is minimized relative to cascading."
"The equivalent input circuit representation for dc misalignment (offset) has appeared in the literature for the special case of a vacuum tube voltage amplifier with infinite input impedance. This paper will generalize the concept of the equivalent input circuit representation for dc offset for the four amplifier types with finite input impedances, and will give the conditions under which the use of each equivalent circuit is justified. In each case, two offset generators which are characteristic of the amplifier alone-independent of driving source impedance and load impedance termination- are defined. Because of this independence, the offset generators are referred to herein as ``characteristic misalignment generators.'' When the amplifier is connected into a system, a knowledge of these generators permits calculation of the effect of amplifier offset on system performance."
"If the ac signal at the \"cosine\" terminal of a sine-cosine resolver (or synchro transmitter connected to a transformer so as to perform the function of a sine-cosine resolver) is fed back to the rotor through an amplifier of suitable gain, the signal at the ``sine'' terminal can be made proportional to rotor rotation for angles up to 90/spl degrees/ or greater. A theoretical analysis of the relationship θ ÷ sin θ/a + b cos θ is given, along with a method for deriving its analog. The theoretical development is supported by experiment."
"As simulation studies grow more elaborate and complex, the computer operator is confronted with an ever increasing number of problems not directly associated with the study at hand. This paper describes a specially designed computer for solving the coordinate transformation equations normally encountered in a six degree of freedom simulation study. This computer expands the capabilities of present analog computer consoles and eliminates the tedious task of patching the solution to these equations, while eliminating a source of human error. Besides incorporating several unique features for changing sequences and scales, this machine has accuracies and responses compatible with those found in linear equipment."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Diode switching circuits have been used in conjunction with emitter followers and current switching circuits to evolve a new set of system building blocks. These blocks exhibit typical delays under five millimicroseconds. Diodes cost less and are physically smaller than transistors; therefore, this new system is cheaper and faster than an all-current switching system and permits at least a fivefold increase in packaging density."
"A comparative performance rating of circuit techniques for performing logical functions in digital systems may be based upon: 1) Reliability and simplicity 2) Input and output capabilities 3) Propagation time 4) Cost. The ``Hybrid Transistor Diode Logic'' (HTDL) circuit technique employs either diodes or emitter follower transistors as gates and buffers, to maximize the circuit performance rating. The HTDL technique thus combines the advantages of lumped and distributed gain circuits. The cascading of diodes and emitter followers in logical gate matrices can be analyzed as the transmission of binary signals through a video system of a given bandwidth. The HTDL technique optimizes the use of the transistor through nonsaturating, low-impedance circuitry. This optimum use of 200-500 megacycle gain-bandwidth transistors is primarily limited by present-day packaging techniques and their inductive and capacitive loading effects upon the circuits. The development of macromodule packaging techniques, using 200-500 mc transistors, in HTDL circuitry, would permit system speeds (synchronous clock rates) to exceed 50 Mc."
"The Esaki diode is a potentially low-cost, high-speed two-terminal device exhibiting a short-circuit-stable negative resistance over a portion of its volt-ampere characteristic. By proper biasing and loading, it can be used to perform power amplification and memory functions. In this paper, a variety of digital computer circuits (a result of an early exploratory program) is described which utilizes the above properties. In particular, shift registers, triggers, and counters are presented. The following shift registers are described: 1) A register which consists of one Esaki diode and one conventional diode per stage. Shifting is accomplished with a two-phase square-wave drive. The Esaki diode provides memory and power gain, and the conventional diode provides a unilateral flow of information. 2) A register which combines Esaki diodes with square-loop ferromagnetic cores. Again the Esaki diode provides memory and power gain. Upon application of a single-phase drive, the cores perform a gating operation depending upon the state of the diodes. 3) With the use of Esaki diode-transistor combinations, high-speed circuits are obtained which depend upon the Esaki diodes primarily for memory and the transistors for power gain and unilateral flow of information. The flip-flop and counter circuits to be presented are the following: 1) A binary counter using Esaki diodes with magnetic cores; 2) high-speed flipflops using Esaki diode-transistor combinations."
"The recent discovery of the tunnel diode with band-widths extending into the kilomegacycle region has prompted investigation of their use in the logic and control portions of high-speed computers. Considerations of diode uniformity requirements, stability problems and power supply requirements has led to a monostable type of logical circuit. The switching properties of this circuit are analyzed and found to depend upon the negative resistance-capacitance time constant of the unit. The basic function performed by the circuit is a thresholding operation from which a set of logical building blocks is derived. Compatible dynamic and bistable storage schemes are discussed. Of major importance is the effect of diode variations upon the logical gains and delays of the circuits. These properties have been tabulated for tunnel diodes with 5 per cent tolerances on knee current and voltage. Experimental circuits using diodes with a time constant of 1.4 nanoseconds have given a nominal switching time of 7.5 nanoseconds."
"This paper describes a regenerative pulse circuit using a single secondary-emission tube that is able to generate pulses having a rise time of 6 mμsec and a width continuously variable from 25 mμsec to 12 μsec. First, a theoretical discussion of the circuit is given in which expressions for pulse width and rise time are derived. Then, various practical realizations of the circuit are presented. Among others, these include a millimicrosecond pulse generator and a fast pulse height discriminator."
"The twistor is a relatively new memory device which may be operated either in a conventional destructive read-out mode, or, by the method explained in this paper, in a nondestructive mode. This paper discusses the basic principles of twistor operation and shows how the twistor may be fabricated into a memory. A non-destructive method of reading a twistor memory by the use of multiple solenoids is described. A typical configuration of a twistor memory which, by the use of this nondestructive reading method, may be operated either in a destructive mode or in a nondestructive mode, is shown."
"A transient analysis for the avalanche transistor is carried out through the use of a diffusion model described in terms of charge variables. Basically, the current as a function of time is calculated by taking the gradient of the minority carrier charge stored in the base region. Two methods of approximating the distribution of stored charge are described. Good agreement has been obtained between calculated and experimental results; it is found that the rise time for the resistance-load case is about four times that for a capacitance-load case which produces the same peak current. A practical pulse generator circuit is described in which the resistance load takes the form of a delay-line. The performance of this circuit is compared with that of a capacitance-load relaxation oscillator; while the rise time of the former is longer, the pulse shape is more easily controlled."
"An adder is described that has been developed for the Floating Indexed Point Arithmetic Unit, FLIP, to be used in conjunction with GEORGE, the existing computer built at Argonne National Laboratory. The logic of the high-speed adder and the special circuits required are presented. The adder is parallel and its high speed is made possible by reducing the carry propagation time. Each bit of the adder contributes one transistor to make up a tall AND gate which reduces the carry propagation time to 0.2 μsec. Using this high-speed carry propagation and rather common RCTL transistor circuitry, it is possible to complete an addition in less than 0.25 μsec."
"Future designs of parallel digital computers will be concerned with increased accuracy in arithmetic operations. When the number of bits per operand is increased, one basic speed limitation to these operations is the time required to propagate carries in addition or borrows in subtraction. A quantitative method of evaluating the drastic reduction in time achieved by asynchronous addition techniques is described."
"The characteristics of a discrete automaton with a finite memory can be determined by an experiment of a finite length. This paper discusses the properties of such experiments, and presents methods for their optimal construction. Specific results are given for binary-input automata with the memory ranges 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4."
"According to the model discussed in this paper, a pattern recognizer is said to consist of two parts: a receptor, which generates a set of measurements of the physical sample to be recognized, and a categorizer, which assigns each set of measurements to one of a finite number of categories. The rule of operation of the categorizer is called the ``recognition function.'' The optimization of the recognition function is discussed, and the form of the optimal function is derived. In practice, a prohibitively large sample is required to provide a basis for estimating the optimal recognition function. If, however, certain assumptions about the probability distributions of the measurements are warranted, recognition functions that are asymptotically optimal may be obtained readily. A small numerical example, involving the recognition of the hand-printed characters A, B, and C is solved by means of the techiques described. The recognition accuracy is found to be 95 per cent."
"The purpose of this paper is to show that two-level (no more than two gates in cascade) multiple-output switching networks composed of unilateral switching devices such as diodes can be simplified or minimized in much the same manner as single-output networks. This is accomplished by extending the notation and techniques used in the simplification of two-level single-output switching networks to multiple-output switching networks. A simple procedure for identifying multiple-output prime implicants is devised and, as a final result, an algorithm is presented which can be used to minimize the switching network corresponding, to a number (q) of given Boolean expressions of the same variables. This algorithm is based on the Quine rules but has been modified to take advantage of the so-called ``don't care'' conditions which occur because some inputs are forbidden or because some outputs are of no concern. This algorithm can readily be programmed on a digital computer if desired."
"Decimal computers ordinarily use a binary-coded decimal representation. One class of binary-coded decimal digits is the so-called four-bit weighted code representation with weights 𝒲1 𝒲2 𝒲3 𝒲4I is a nonzero integer in the range -9≤𝒲I≤9, and the set of weights must have the property that every decimal digit can be represented by the sum ㎣i=14 bI 𝒲I, with the bI being 0 or 1. For some weighted codes the weights are such that some digits can be represented by more than one sum of the specified form. For example, the 7421 weighted code has the property that 7 may be represented either as 1000 or as 0111. This paper produces a necessary and sufficient condition on the weights of a weighted code for the unique representation of each digit by a sum of the specified form. Further, all possible sets of weights are displayed."
"A new analog device, called a Poisson cell, has been developed which aids in obtaining solutions to either Laplace's equation or Poisson's equation. The cell may be used to simulate such potentials as electric potential, magnetic potential, gravitational potential, and the velocity potential of irrotational flow; it has applications in the fields of hydrodynamics, heat conduction, and aerodynamics. The cell is a solid volume-conducting medium made from a homogeneous mixture of hydrostone and graphite. Electrode configurations may be painted on the surface with conducting paint or imbedded directly in the structure. In the case of Poisson's equation, where ∇2ø(x, y) = f(x, y), the function f(x, y) is simulated by injecting currents into the underside of the cell. The application of the Poisson cell to numerous problems and in particular to problems in electron flow is discussed m detail, along with the incorporation of the cell into either an analog computer system or a combined analog-digital computer system."
"Since the inception of the electronic analog computer as a useful engineering tool, the need for practical methods of solving nonlinear problems has steadily increased. This paper describes a passive, nonlinear device which, when used with operational amplifiers, provides the means for obtaining a large class of functions. These are obtained to a degree of accuracy and reliability not previously possible with a simple, economical device. A basic varistor squaring unit is described. The unit has been compensated for the various types of error inherent in the varistor itself, and is capable of providing approximately fifteen of the most basic and commonly used nonlinear functions."
"Methods of practical solution of integral equations on electronic differential analyzers are not well developed. In those cases where such methods have been outlined, special and costly additional equipment is required. Results presented in this work show that practical solution of integral equations is possible using a repetitive differential analyzer of convenient design."
"A technique is described which enables an approach to ideal analog integration or differentiation by means of passive elements only. A series of RC circuits in a cascade arrangement, uncoupled to each other, provides the first, second, third, etc., integrals or derivatives (according to the connection of the RC circuits) of the input function. The theory establishes that if the outputs of each are fed to an analog summing amplifier, its output becomes arbitrarily close to the ideal integral or derivative of the input function as the number of RC stages is raised indefinitely. A device has been developed according to this idea to perform one of these operations (integration) and to check the results obtained in theory. Mathematical proofs of the theory are given in the paper."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Covers abstract numbers 1-126 March, 1959; 127-260 June, 1959; 261-405 September, 1959; 406-542 December, 1959; 543-693 March, 1960; 694-844 June, 1960; 845-997 September, 1960; 998-1145 December, 1960."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Provides instructions and guidelines to prospective authors who wish to submit manuscripts."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The merit of any high density detection method is ultimately dependent on the ``resolution'' characteristic of the magnetic recording components. Justification of readback waveform synthesis through ``single pulse'' superposition is given. A comprehensive, yet general readback simulation program is described which will automatically, for any characteristic pulse, simulate all possible readback signal patterns and test them for specified reading logic as a function of bit density. Amplitude, phase, peak, etc., sensing are compared and the influence of parameter variation on performance indicated. Good correlation with experiment has been realized and has greatly reduced time at the bench. The significance of pulse waveform is clearly revealed and this study has provided a guide to head design (ring and probe), permitting the optimization of a total recording system for high-density storage."
"This paper is concerned with the optimal compilation of programs whose function is to transfer words of information from one location in a serial memory to another. The most important optimization tool is the ``timing schedule,'' which facilitates the analysis of various transfer schemes and the determination of the fastest one. The procedure described for optimizing serial transfers is readily programmable for computer execution, and is directly applicable to a general class of transportation problems."
"Considerations leading to the adoption of diode-transistor NOR circuitry for a moderately fast data-processing system are outlined. The design of the basic circuit is treated in detail. Development of a unique set of compatible logic packages from the basic circuit is described. This set is unique in the sense that a single type of diode-transistor circuit is used to provide the great majority of logic and storage functions required in the system. This single circuit type, which functions as a NOR circuit, is embodied in two package types. One package provides a single gate with a fan-in of five. The other package provides two gates, each with a fan-in of two. The latter type may be externally connected to provide a set-reset flip-flop. Only two other package types are used. The first is a passive transfer circuit which greatly simplifies shift register logic, and the second is a delay package which is closely related to the basic NOR circuit."
"Logical circuits using Esaki diodes, and which are based on a principle similar to parametron (subharmonic oscillator element) circuits, are described. Two diodes are used in series to form a basic element called a twin, and a binary digit is represented by the polarity of the potential induced at the middle point of the twin, which is controlled by the majority of input signals applied to the middle point. Unilateral transmission of information in circuits consisting of cascaded twins is achieved by dividing the twins into three groups and by energizing each group one after another in a cyclic manner. Experimental results with the clock frequency as high as 30 mc are reported. Also, a delay-line dynamic memory and a nondestructive memory in matrix form are discussed."
"Two techniques are described for designing multiapertured magnetic structures capable of realizing any specific logic function. The structures are made from rectangular hysteresis loop material. The designs are derived from the corresponding relay contact network by replacing each current carrying conductor in the relay circuit with its analog in the magnetic circuit, a flux-carrying conductor, replacing the emf with a pulsed mmf; and replacing each back contact with a saturable portion of the magnetic circuit in the topological equivalent of the contact network. A flux reversal through a saturated portion may then be blocked by means of an inhibiting Current applied to a suitable winding, the current representing a logical input variable. Thus flux may be ``steered'' through the magnetic circuit in a manner analogous to the steering of current through the contact network. For planar structures the first technique may be used to obtain the analog of series-parallel and bridge type circuits; parallel circuits. It is pointed out that the analog of a relay tree can be used as a standard structure suitable for realizing any Boolean function. Representative examples of both designs are shown, and experimental data are given."
"It is well known that the expected maximum length of nonzero carry propagation in the addition of two uniformly distributed binary numbers of n-digits each is less than log2 n. The propagation of both zero and nonzero carry is required in the employment of asynchronous self-timing addition. For the addition of two n-digit binary numbers which are uniformly distributed, a simple recursive algorithm is readily derived for the exact determination of the expected maximum length of zero or nonzero carry propagation."
"Algorithms are presented for 1) converting a state graph describing the behavior of an automaton to a regular expression describing the behavior of the same automaton (section 2), and 2) for converting a regular expression into a state graph (sections 3 and 4). These algorithms are justified by theorems, and examples are given. The first section contains a brief introduction to state graphs and the regular-expression language."
"The general problem of pattern recognition is regarded as a problem wherein the recognition device is presented with a plane array of black-or-white elements and must decide to which general class (pattern) this array belongs. A method for reducing the necessary amount of logic is presented. It is basically a method for reducing Boolean equations in many variables which contain large numbers of redundant or ``don't care'' terms. The reduced logic is in the form of Boolean functions of the black-or-white elements. Some experimental results, in which this logic was mechanized with diodes, are discussed."
"The role of signal structure in a signal discrimination system is discussed. The optimality criterion for reference signals for detection in the case of white Gaussian independent noise is defined. The need for normalization of the reference signals is demonstrated. A geometric interpretation is presented. Optimum classes are obtained and several examples cited. A theoretical optimum class of signals is derived against which any set of signals developed within given constraints may be rated."
"The Frequency-to-Period-to-Analog Computer is a special purpose nonlinear analog computer which accepts an ac voltage of varying frequency, acts upon the period of each cycle, computes the inverse of the time period, e = 1/T, and holds the information for the period of the next cycle. Thus, the output voltage is a level which is proportional to the input frequency f = 1/T computed once for every cycle. The system is accurate to better than ± 0.5 per cent of 2/3 full scale. Application of the computer is described and results presented for fast readout and recording of gas and liquid turbine type flowmeters. Extensions of the circuits used can produce voltages proportional to In t or 1/t2, for time t greater than a small positive number."
"The paper presents a factual account of the trip of the 1959 U. S. technical delegation in computers to the Soviet Union. It includes the itinerary, descriptions of specific Soviet computers, descriptions of certain computing centers, a discussion of Soviet computer-oriented education, and a description of current circuit and component development. In appendices are given the instruction repertoire of the URAL-I and the URAL-II machines, and an analysis of some magnetic cores. The paper is extensively illustrated and contains a bibliography of relevant Soviet documents."
"Contains an entry for each author and coauthor included in this issue of the publication."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Index of authors of papers and participants in discussions and titles of papers and topics discussed."
"Presents the front cover/table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Combinatorial Mathematics, or “Combinatorics”, regarded as originating in the Ars Combinatoria of Leibniz, has to do with problems of arrangement, operation, and selection within a finite or discrete system—such as the aggregate of all possible states of a digital computer. Until recently, preoccupation with continuous mathematics has inhibited the growth of discrete mathematics. But now it is realized that combinatorial methods can be developed to attack profitably, in modern science and technology, a vast variety of “problems of organized comp1exity”—an apt designation of Warren Weaver."
"The notions of widths and heights of (0, 1)-matrices are discussed in the general setting of known results concerning traces and term ranks. Proofs are omitted throughout."
"This paper treats the following problem in combinatorial analysis: Find an incomplete balanced block design D with parameters b, v, r, k, and λ = 1. possessing an automorphism group G which is doubly transitive on the elements of D and such that the subgroup H of G fixing all the elements of a block is transitive on the remaining elements. Also find transitive extensions of such groups G. If the block design is a finite projective plane, the plane is necessarily Desarguesian. Thus, these properties of the automorphism group may be considered as a “Desarguesian” property of the designs. This paper considers the case in which D is a Steiner triple system. The main result is that a “Desarguesian” Steiner triple system is either 1) a projective geometry over GF(2) or 2) an affine geometry over GF(3). Two intermediate results are of interest: 1) A Steiner triple system has for each element an involution fixing only this element, if and only if every triangle generates an S(9), a Steiner triple system with 9 elements; 2) if a Steiner triple system has for each triple an involution fixing only the elements of this triple, then every triangle generates an S(7) or an S(9)."
"The enumeration of trees which was begun by Harary and Prins, is simplified and elaborated in the interest of obtaining reliable numerical results. Height is a characteristic of a rooted tree, the length in lines of the longest path from the root, while the diameter of a (free) tree is the length of the longest path joining two endpoints. The most general enumerations given are for the case where a fixed number of the points of the trees are labeled with distinct labels, which puts in one setting the classical contrast of all points alike and all points unlike. The numerical tables given extend to trees with 20 points, all alike, and to trees with 10 points, all unlike."
"A combinatorial approach is made to the problem of obtaining a path on a rectangular board of m by n squares with both terminals at the edges of the board. A square is said to be covered when the path enters one edge and leaves an adjacent edge. All other squares are said to be missed. Maximal paths are found, i.e., those which cover a maximum number of squares. For m = n, m − 2 squares are missed when m is even, and m − 1 squares are missed when m is odd. For m < n, m − 2 squares are missed if m is even, and n − 2 squares are missed if m is odd. The method of proof for m and n even is quite different from that for m or n odd. Certain properties of terminal positions, path length, types of missed squares, and unique paths are also investigated. The dependence of the results on the parity of m and n is again very striking."
"It is known that a certain simple set of properties characterize the relationship of adjacency of the n(n − 1)/2 arcs of the complete graph of order n, when n ≠ 8, and that these properties are not a sufficient characterization when n = 8 (see [1], [2], [3], [4], and [7]). The present paper describes a method for enumerating all counter-examples when n = 8."
"This note treats the existence of connected, undirected graphs homogeneous of degree d and of diameter k, having a number of nodes which is maximal according to a certain definition. For k = 2 unique graphs exist for d = 2,3,7 and possibly for d = 57 (which is undecided), but for no other degree. For k = 3 a graph exists only for d = 2. The proof exploits the characteristic roots and vectors of the adjacency matrix (and its principal submatrices) of the graph."
"Instead of the customary proof of the existence of an optimal basis in the simplex method based on perturbation of the constant terms, this paper gives a new proof based on induction. From a pedagogical point of view it permits an earlier and more elementary proof of the fundamental duality theorem via the simplex method. Specifically we shall show that there exists a finite chain of feasible basis changes, which results in either an optimal feasible solution or in an infinite class of feasible solutions, such that the objective form tends to minus infinity."
"This paper presents (1) a new characterization, via linear programming, of extreme optimal strategies of a matrix game and (2) a simple direct procedure for computing them. The first pertains to the neat formulas of L. S. Shapley and R. N. Snow for a “basic solution”, and the second to the highly effective “simplex method” of G. B. Dantzig. Both are related to the author's “combinational equivalence” of matrices, the first through an optimal block-pivot transformation and the second through a suitably chosen succession of elementary pivot steps."
"For many years it has been known that a combinatorial result, called the Sperner Lemma, provides an elegant proof of the Brouwer Fixed Point Theorem. Although the proof is elementary, its complete formal exposition depends upon the somewhat complicated operation of subdividing a simplex. Also, the proof does not show whether the Sperner Lemma can be derived from the Brouwer Fixed Point Theorem. This central result of this paper is a combinatorial proposition, analogous to the Sperner Lemma, and applying to the n-cube, for which subdivision is a trivial operation. This Cubical Sperner Lemma follows immediately from the Brouwer Fixed Point Theorem and thus opens the possibility of other applications of topology to combinatorial problems. The question of such a topological proof is raised for another cubical analogue of the Sperner Lemma, due to Ky Fan, and for the Tucker Lemma, which is related to the antipodal point theorems. The Cubical Sperner Lemma of this paper implies the Tucker Lemma in 2-dimensions; this suggests that other connections joining these combinatorial results remain to be discovered."
"The standard relay-contact-tree network has been used extensively for many years. If n is the number of relays involved, it has always been assumed that the 2(2n−1) contacts used in the standard tree network is the smallest possible number of contacts with which such a network could be made. This paper proves that this is true, provided no sneak paths are allowed. This is in contrast to the result obtained by Lupanov, who showed that when n is five or more it is possible to save contacts below the usual number by permitting sneak paths. This paper proves further theorems about any network which satisfies the same specifications as an n-relay tree without sneak circuits, and which is built with the minimal number of contacts. In particular, these theorems characterize such a network well enough that it can be shown to be one of the standard forms of relay tree network."
"This paper gives two new bounds for the code word length n which is required to obtain a binary group code of order 2k with mutual distance d between code words. These bounds are compared with previously known bounds, and are shown to improve upon them for certain ranges of k and d. Values of k and d are given for which one of these bounds can actually be achieved; in such cases, the structure of the resulting codes is shown to satisfy a certain condition."
"An algorithm is provided for what might be termed the general problem of logical design of circuits with one output and no feedback. Given a set B of logical building blocks, each with a positive cost, each with one output, and given a Boolean function f the problem is to prescribe a Boolean tree constructed from the available set of building blocks which realizes f and which has a minimum cost. Actually a more general problem involving don't care conditions is treated. The cost of a Boolean tree shall be the sum of the costs of the building blocks of which it is composed. A special case of this problem is the classical logical problem of finding a functional expression for a given logical function which uses a minimum number of conjunctions, disjunctions and negations. Programmed on an IBM 704 computer, the algorithm is believed to be efficient on problems with eight or less variables."
"The properties of crystalline germanium and silicon are better known and understood than those of other crystals as the result of the intensive scientific and technological studies devoted to them following the invention of the transistor. In spite of the breadth and extent of these studies, the preparation of single crystals by means other than solidification from the molten state has until recently remained relatively unexplored."
"The Ge-I2 disproportionation reaction in a sealed tube will deposit Ge epitaxially upon Ge seeds at a typical rate of 10µ/hr at a typical temperature of 400°C. Dislocations are of the same kind and approximate concentrations as observed in ordinary melt-grown Ge. Chemical purity is comparable to the best melt-grown Ge. The fraction of donors transferred from the source material to the deposited material is nearly unity over a wide range of concentrations, while the fraction of acceptors transferred is considerably less than unity. However, either n-type or p-type Ge can be deposited, and by using two sources within the same tube alternating layers can be obtained."
"A method of fabricating p-n junctions and p-n junction devices by a closed-cycle iodide vapor-growth process is described. The electrical characteristics of junctions made by alternately depositing p-type and n-type germanium onto a germanium substrate compare favorably with those fabricated by other means. Device arrays, such as diode matrices, and multijunction structures have been made by this process. If sufficient control can be achieved, devices having a wide range of impurity distributions and geometric configurations will be possible."
"Germanium p-n junctions have been made which have a large fractional variation of capacitance with voltage and which have promise of being operable at high frequencies. These diodes are produced by a vapor-growth process in which the doping is switched from n-type to p-type during growth. Capacitances which vary as the reciprocal of voltage over a considerable range have been observed. This capacitance variation corresponds to a net donor concentration which decreases from its value at the junction approximately as the reciprocal of distance from the junction. At a position corresponding roughly to the edge of the transition region at breakdown, the net donor concentration abruptly increases. This rapid variation of capacitance with voltage and the low series resistance resulting from the discontinuity in doping level should result in high-frequency diodes, if the magnitude of the discontinuity can be increased sufficiently."
"Measurements of the incorporation of iodine into single crystals of Ge grown by the disproportionation of GeI2 have been made using I131 as a radioactive tracer. The results show that I is not likely to be a hindrance to device use of this material since the amount incorporated is moderately low (1014–1015 atoms/cm3). and does not appear to be correlated with electrical effects. It does not diffuse appreciably (D875°<10−13 cm2/sec). No excess is found at an all-deposited p-n junction. The concentration of I incorporated appears to decrease with increasing temperature, to be independent of growth rate on a (111) orientation of the seed, but to vary by a factor of up to 50 from one orientation to another. It is deduced that the I is incorporated by a mechanism intimately connected with the crystal growth."
"The incorporation of arsenic into single-crystal germanium grown by the disproportionation of GeI2 was studied using As76 as a radioactive tracer, and using measurements of the Hall effect. The deposition was carried out in a sealed tube using as source material a single crystal of Ge doped to 2.5 × 1019 atoms/cm3 with As. It was found that all the As incorporated into the vapor-grown Ge was electrically active, at least for material grown on a (211) Ge seed. The concentration of As in the deposited Ge was lower than that in the source, and appeared to depend on the crystallographic orientation of the growing face."
"In thee xperimental work reported here it habse en shown that degenerately doped n type Ge can be vapor-grown epitaxially on degenerately doped p-type Ge or GaAs substrates, yielding tunnel junctions in either case. The vapor growth was performed at a low temperature in order to minimize interdiffusion of impurities at the junction. However, it was found that some heat treatment (subsequent to the vapor-growth step) increased peak current densities. G -Ge junctions were further heat treated and peak current densities then decreased. Both P and As have been used to dope thvea por-grown Ge. Up to the present time, higher concentrations have been achieved with phosphorus. Since it has been observed in alloyed tunnel junctions that As doping will give better peak-to-valley ratios, and since all the As incorporated in vapor-grown Ge is electrically active,10 further work is being done on As doping."
"Abrupt monocrystalline junctions between two different semiconductor materials (heterojunctions)1 have been made by depositing germanium epitaxially on gallium arsenide substrates. The purpose of this communication is to summarize some tentative results obtained in a study of the electrical characteristics of these junctions. A more detailed paper is under preparation."
"The thickness and structure of the deposited silicon films depends on the duration of the crystallization process, temperature, concentration of silicon vapors and the content of impurities in the system. A detailed study of these growth variables has not been made. However, an empirical approach in setting the operating conditions used in this study, has led to establishing the feasibility of epitaxially growing silicon layers on silicon substrates by the disproportionation of silicon di-iodide."
"One of the central problems of the iodide vapor-growth process1 for growing germanium suitable for device fabrication is that of the incorporation of impurities. These fall into two classes in germanium2: the hydrogenic, such as arsenic, characterized by a high solubility, low diffusivity and low ionization energy, and the nonhydrogenic, characterized by a low and usually markedly retrograde solubility, higher diffusivity and higher ionization energy. Work on the incorporation of arsenic into vapor grown germanium (VGG) has been reported elsewhere. 3 We report here a study of the incorporation of gold, chosen as a representative nonhydrogenic impurity."
"In this note it has been shown that the silicon iodide disproportionation process for growing epitaxial layers of silicon is also capable of transporting and codepositing desired impurities. Certain Group I11 and V elements such as B, P, As and Sb, can be introduced controllably into epitaxial layers of silicon during the growth. Impurity concentrations obtained cover 4 orders of magnitude, reaching far into the degenerate region. Therefore the process as described by Wajda et a1 is a new tool for the fabrication of various silicon semiconductor structures."
"The process of growing single crystals of germanium1 by epitaxial deposition onto seeds during disproportionation of GeI2 to Ge and GeI4 raised a number of interesting questions concerning the perfection of these crystals. The preliminary results of a study of the dislocation content of such crystals are reported here. It was found that the perfection of the crystals is principally controlled by the condition of the surface of the seed crystal, and that the perfection of the seed significantly affects the dislocation content of the deposit only in certain cases to be described. These results, though not unexpected, are in contrast to the results of perfection studies on melt-grown crystals, where it has been shown that the perfection of a growing crystal is influenced by the perfection of the seed, as well as growth conditions that include thermal stresses and impurity distributions."
"A memory system consisting of bistable static dissipationless units such as ferrites, ferroelectrics, or cryotrons is considered. For a given amount of physical material the memory capacity may be increased by using small volumes of the bistable material for each bit. If made sufficiently small, however, the individual bits will become unreliable because of the influence of thermal agitation and quantum-mechanical tunneling processes. Some unreliability can be tolerated, since it can be compensated by redundancy. The optimum size of the individual bit, for maximum information storage, is evaluated. If thermal agitation is the prime source of errors, then the optimum-sized bit involves typically less than 100 of the independent cooperating units (electron spins, dipoles, et cetera) which cause the bistability. The maximization process concerns itself only with the preservation of information and not with possible methods of access to the individual bit. In particular, the maximization process neglects complications in the coding equipment needed to read in and out of memory."
"A systematic method is given for the realization of communication nets from their terminal capacity matrices. It is shown that this procedure results in a net whose total branch capacity is minimum for all nets satisfying the same terminal capacity matrix. It is also shown that when the terminal capacity matrix is indeterminate, then, for a given total branch capacity, the total terminal capacity is highest when all terminal capacities are made equal."
"Techniques of linear graph theory are applied to the study of switching networks. The first part treats the relationships among paths and circuits in a graph which will give a simple method of analyzing switching networks. The necessary conditions are given for the realizability of switching networks consisting of the specified elements. The second part is the synthesis which is accomplished by the use of the decomposition of cut-set matrices."
"It is observed that the codes of Abramson, Melas and others are essentially described by the characteristic equation that a certain matrix satisfies. Consequently it is found that transformations of these codes are possible provided that the characteristic equation is preserved. These transformations may then be exploited to produce codes that have a simple implementation and, in fact, a general method is indicated by which any code may be implemented when the characteristic equation is known."
"A study of the single-gap-scan approach to character recognition, using an IBM 650 for simulation, is reported. Ten specially designed digits were used in this study. Character recognition is discussed in terms of some simple concepts from n-dimensional geometry. The main contribution is an effective method for using a computer to aid in the design of the type font. This procedure is a natural development of the vector approach. Experimental results show the sensitivity of the system to phasing. An expression is given for a “quality factor.” The relationship of this factor to errors and to ink density is illustrated."
"The dimensions of physical quantities q are interpreted as vectors qi(γi1, γi2, …,γin)≡γi1b1+γi2b2+…+γinbn, where the basic elements bj generating the vector space represent the basic quantities of the dimensional system and the coefficients γj are defined by an equation. This interpretation permits the application of the theorems on vector spaces to dimensional analysis. Some results of this approach are simplified rules for the transformation of dimension and unit systems and a physically more transparent derivation of a complete set of dimensionless products by a transformation of bases. The new notation yields a sequential order of physical equations which may lead to a dimensional analysis based on appropriately selected equation groups."
"The following analysis deals with the problem of determining the magnetic field in the vicinity of a rectangular parallelepiped (2b × 2a × 2a) of high permeability μ placed in a uniform magnetic field H0 as shown in Fig. 1. The solution is to be obtained through successive approximations. Numerical results from the first approximation are compared with experimental data."
"Knowledge of the electrical characteristics of thin resin films is important in such applications as protecting photoconductive surfaces. Since these resins are essentially insulators, the charge-decay technique offers a simple method of determining their current-voltage characteristics. The rate of decay of the surface charge on an insulating film, coated on a metal base, will depend upon the current through the film, since surface conduction is negligible."
"Since N. M. Abramson first applied shift-register sequences to correction of single and double adjacent errors,1 a number of investigators have devised codes using such sequences for burst error c0rrection.2–4 Bose and Ray-Chandhuri have applied these sequences to construction of codes of arbitrary Hamming distance."
"The problem is considered of the motion of a free piston in a finite pipe filled with a compressible liquid and subject to a step in pressure introduced from the two ends. The treatment is in one dimension using the linearized wave equation for the density disturbance and the linearized boundary conditions. A generalized Fourier series expansion leads to the solution of the problem. The mathematical analysis is complicated first by the presence of the interior boundary conditions which lead to a system of discontinuous eigenfunctions, and second, by the step pressure input which results in reflected discontinuities. By studying the properties of the eigenfunctions from a variational characterization, the formal expansions used are established rigorously. The motion of the piston is determined as a function of the input parameters, and the maximum piston excursion and the associated time are tabulated numerically over the ranges of interest of these parameters."
"The propagation of a periodic signal on a transmission line with a nonlinearity in the distributed capacitance is examined. The signal is deformed during its propagation and electromagnetic shock waves are generated. It is pointed out that the shock wave will form in a distance which is short for any parametric amplification purposes. The subsequent growth of the shock and its decay, due to the inevitable dissipation associated with a shock, are analyzed assuming that the capacitance variations are small compared to the total capacitance. The propagation of a small deviation from a signal which is perfectly periodic in time is also examined, and it is shown that the small deviation may spread out in time but cannot be changed in its sign. This result was invoked in an earlier paper demonstrating the impossibility of parametric amplification on dispersionless nonlinear lines."
"The time necessary to change the phase of an idealized subharmonic parametric oscillator from one value to a value differing by 180° is calculated for various values of pump power and switching power. Several conclusions are drawn from the results."
"A proof is given for a duality theorem for a class of convex programs, i.e., constrained minimization of convex functions. A simple example is included."
"A load-sharing matrix switch with noise-cancelling features was proposed recently.1 Another paper2 suggests that for some cases the number of input wires may be reduced with an improved scheme. The purpose of this note is to report a further improvement over the schemes mentioned. The method to be described requires a minimum number of input wires"
"Noiseless, load-sharing matrix switches usually may be built built with almost any fewer outputs. Paley has described methods of forming the Aij matrix for this switch. By means of Chien's modification of these techniques,3 the number of drivers required for a 16,384 word core memory x-y drive system can be reduced from 512 to 320."
"When very high speed counting is demanded, it sometimes becomes difficult to achieve he objective even with high-speed circuitry, because of the time necessary for carry propagation. The counter described below1 eliminates carry propagation by a unique system of parallel counting."
"It has been shown that marked improvement in EL B-V nonlinearity and greatly enhanced DR's can be obtained by the inclusion of Sic resistive layers in series with EL elements."
"This note is an extension of previous work1,2 and provides a derivation of impedance parameters involving application of continued fraction techniques. It also provides computed parameter values both in numeric and graphic form."
"Results are reported here of a rather successful attempt of proving all theorems, totalling near 400, of Principia Mathematica which are strictly in the realm of logic, viz., the restricted predicate calculus with equality. A number of other problems of the same type are discussed. It is suggested that the time is ripe for a new branch of applied logic which may be called “inferential” analysis, which treats proofs as numerical analysis does calculations. This discipline seems capable, in the not too remote future, of leading to machine proofs of difficult new theorems. An easier preparatory task is to use machines to formalize proofs of known theorems. This line of work may also lead to mechanical checks of new mathematical results comparable to the debugging of a program."
"The effect of adding small concentrations of an impurity to a superconducting metal is analyzed by thermodynamic methods. Two possible types of variation of the Gibbs free energy with composition are then discussed, utilizing a number of simplifying assumptions. For the case in which alloys have a superconducting second-order transition, there is a long-range interaction among solute atoms, even in limits of high dilution."
"A program is described which can provide a computer with quick logical facility for syllogisms and moderately more complicated sentences. The program realizes a method for proving that a sentence of quantification theory is logically true. The program, furthermore, provides a decision procedure over a subclass of the sentences of quantification theory. The subclass of sentences for which the program provides a decision procedure includes all syllogisms. Full justification of the method is given. A program for the IBM 704 Data Processing Machine is outlined which realizes the method. Production runs of the program indicate that for a class of moderately complicated sentences the program can produce proofs in intervals ranging up to two minutes."
"A model for the transverse vibrations of a tape moving between a pair of pulleys is devised using a variational procedure. It is shown by means of energy-type integrals that the energy of that portion of the tape between the pulleys is not conserved, but that there is a periodic transfer of energy into and out of the system. The solution for the wave equation is then constructed by a method which makes use of functional equations. The solution is observed to be periodic in time, and a modal decomposition of it is derived. A solution is also derived for the case of forced vibrations at the pulleys, and a class of forcing vibrations which cause unbounded solutions as time increases is isolated. In an appendix, a boundary layer effect is considered which occurs when the velocity of the tape through the pulleys approaches the sound speed of the tape."
"In error-correcting codes for combating noisy transmission channels, a central concept is the notion of minimum distance. If a code can be constructed with minimum distance between code points of 2m+1, then any number of errors per code word which does not exceed m can be corrected, thus increasing the reliability of transmission above that to be expected with no redundancy in the code."
"Multiple related errors of any configuration can be automatically corrected by a class of codes having the property of using two groups of parity bits, one defining the error pattern, the other determining the location of the errors within the block. In particular, error bursts can be corrected with a minimum amount of redundancy. Because each parity-bit group is derived by using maximum-length shift-register sequences, rather than by storing a decoding table, the implementation of these codes is relatively simple, as shown in an example of a three-bit-wide burst-correcting code. An example is given of an application of these codes in a data transmission system where only an even number of bits is likely to be corrupted by a noise burst."
"A set λ of stochastic variables, y1 ,y2, …, yn, is grouped into subsets, µ1, µ2, ..., µk. The correlation existing in λ with respect to the µ's is adequately expressed by an equation where S(ν) is the entropy function defined with reference to the variables y in subset ν. For a given λ, C becomes maximum when each µi consists of only one variable, (n = k). The value C is then called the total correlation in λ, Ctot(λ). The present paper gives various theorems, according to which Ctot(λ) can be decomposed in terms of the partial correlations existing in subsets of λ, and of quantities derivable therefrom. The information-theoretical meaning of each decomposition is carefully explained. As illustrations, two problems are discussed at the end of the paper: (1) redundancy in geometrical figures in pattern recognition, and (2) randomization effect of shuffling cards marked “zero” or “one.”"
"The thin-film papers in this issue are an outgrowth of IBM research and development in laboratories at Poughkeepsie, Kingston, New York, Zurich, and San Jose. Some of the papers are device-oriented, while others represent fundamental research and theory."
"Observations of domain walls in Ni-Fe films as a function of thickness demonstrate the strong influence of magnetic stray fields on the wall structure, hence on the coercivity for wall motion. In order to reduce the stray-field energy, the Bloch walls in films thicker than 1000 A are subdivided into sections with alternating polarity which are separated by Bloch lines. In thinner films, the domain walls are of the Néel type. The position of Bloch lines in such walls is indicated by crosswalls. The motion of Bloch lines in an applied field can be observed particularly easily on scratches in negative magnetostrictive material; such scratches display properties corresponding to Néel walls. Crosswalls are also present at the ends of domains and around holes in the film material. A crosswall is distinguished from ordinary domain walls by the continuous change of the angle of magnetization along both sides of it."
"The dependence of the field attenuation on temperature and superimposed dc magnetic field is measured with a sensitive rf bridge. It is shown theoretically that the penetration depth λ can be derived from the attenuation measurements, and the experiment therefore yields λ as a function of temperature and dc magnetic field. Changes in λ can be detected to an accuracy of ±0.03% Preliminary data on the temperature dependence of λ for lead are compared with the predictions of the Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer theory and are shown to be consistent with an energy gap between 4.9 kTc and 5.4 kTc at 0°K. Detailed descriptions are given of the apparatus and of the preparation of the samples."
"Thin, single-crystal films of Ni, Fe, Ni-Fe and Ni-Co have been grown by vacuum deposition onto heated rock salt. The cubic crystalline anisotropy constant, K1, of these films has been measured at room temperature by a torque method. In the case of the Ni-Fe alloys, K1 was found to be the same for thin films as for bulk materials of the same composition. The measured anisotropy in the Ni-Co films differs quantitatively but has the same qualitative variation with composition as is reported for bulk crystals. The results of one magnetic annealing experiment on a 75% Ni - 25% Fe film lends support to the short-range ordering model of uniaxial anisotropy in alloys. Pure nickel films exhibit a pronounced uniaxial anisotropy superimposed on the crystalline anisotropy. This uniaxial term disappears after the film is removed from the substrate, indicating that its origin is in an anisotropic stress in the deposited film."
"A mass spectrometer study is made of the residual gases in several types of vacuum evaporators ranging from oil-diffusion-pumped, conventional systems to an oil-free, ultra-high-vacuum chamber. Partial pressures of water vapor, hydrogen, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, nitrogen, oxygen, argon and hydrocarbon vapors varied appreciably in the evaporators studied. The performance of a conventional system was improved by using special low-vapor-pressure gasket materials to minimize hydrocarbon contamination, a liquid-nitrogen trap to reduce water vapor, titanium gettering for oxygen and nickel-iron gettering for hydrogen. For thin-film deposition, the importance of thoroughly outgassing the source materials is pointed out."
"The theory of the electrical properties of metal films as given by Fuchs and Sondheimer is extended to nondegenerate semiconductors with ellipsoidal energy surfaces. A change of variables reduces the problem to a simpler one with spherical energy surfaces but with electric and magnetic fields which are tilted with respect to the film. This is solved to first order in the applied fields. The effective mobility and Hall coefficient vary with film thickness much as for a metal but show an anisotropy with film orientation, even for cubic crystals. Anisotropy is observed for both diffuse and specular surface scattering and for surface channels as well as films, and it provides a means of measuring the effective mass ratio of the carriers."
"A reduction in the electrical conductivity of a solid results from “diffuse” reflection of electrons from the surfaces. The effect occurs for specular reflection also, if the operative electron-energy surfaces are not spherical. A theory of the latter case is given here. The average conductivity of a thin crystal tends to a finite limit (rather than zero) as the thickness tends to zero. The Hall effect for the same circumstances is also treated."
"The size dependence of the electrical conductivity, and preliminary results for galvanomagnetic effects, in thin, single crystals of high-purity bismuth at 4.2°K are reported for a range of thicknesses comparable to the electron mean free path. The results, when interpreted according to the theory of Ham and Mattis and of Price (in the accompanying papers), show that the scattering of electrons by the surface is specular, and confirm the novel predictions of the theory for the case of specular reflection and anisotropic surfaces of constant energy."
"The magnetic anisotropies of iron, nickel, and permalloy films, evaporated onto glass substrates at various incident angles and substrate temperatures, have been measured by a torque method. For all compositions, the largest absolute value for the magnetic anisotropy occurs at the largest incident angle and lowest substrate temperature. A detailed calculation of the anisotropy resulting from a [111] fiber axis is found to fail to agree with the experimental results either in order of magnitude or in direction of the easy axis. The change in the magnetic anisotropies of films after removal from substrates is small enough that macroscopic stress cannot be the source of the anisotropy. A difference in electrical resistance parallel and perpendicular to a direction defined by the vapor stream during deposition is found to vary qualitatively very much like the magnetic anisotropy, both with film composition and incident angle. It is concluded that deposition at an angle of incidence produces an anisotropy in structural imperfections, which are interpreted in terms of shape and surface magnetic anisotropies as well as magnetostrictive effects."
"Evaporated tin films of low residual resistivity have been produced by using very high deposition rates in a conventional vacuum system. The substrates were cooled with liquid nitrogen. After the film edges are removed by mechanical trimming or chemical etching, these films show sharp magnetic and temperature transitions from the superconducting to the normal state, a critical field - temperature characteristic which is close to a modified version of the London theory, a transition temperature very close to the value of bulk tin, and a reversible resistance - critical current characteristic. These characteristics are compared with those of films deposited on substrates at room temperature using low deposition rates. Evidence is presented to indicate that the edge effect in the temperature transition of films is caused by a concentration of impurities in the edges. The low-temperature mean free path, rather than the resistivity ratio, is suggested as a figure of merit for estimating film purity because the size effect limits the resistivity ratio for thin films."
"An investigation was made of the magnetic phase transition of thin, superconducting Sn films. In evaporated films, because of the sloping edges, broad magnetic field transitions are generally found. This paper shows that such “penumbra” effects can be eliminated by raising the temperature of the substrate during evaporation. The lack of penumbra effect was due to the aggregation of the film. The transition curves of such films displayed hysteresis."
"A special pulse equipment including a pulse-sampling oscilloscope with an over-all response time of 0.35 nanosecond (10−9 sec) for the observation of the nanosecond flux change in thin permalloy films is described. Film switching signals as short as 1 nanosecond have been obtained and are discussed with respect to the underlying processes. Inverse switching time versus driving-field curves have been plotted for films of different thicknesses. They show that thinner films switch faster than thicker ones. The slopes of these curves have characteristic values in the nanosecond region of about 108 per oersted-second. Coherent rotation and oscillation of the magnetization have been clearly detected by picking up the flux change transverse to the driving field."
"The current amplification factor of a shielded, thin-film cryotron has been found to increase as the temperature is reduced below the critical temperature of the gate. From the Silsbee hypothesis,1 this factor is the ratio of the gate-film width to the contro -film width. The experimental work shows that the amplification factor is zero at the critical temperature of the gate and rises rapidly in the region when the penetration depth is decreasing, namely just below the critical temperature of the gate."
"It has been shown that the coercive force of thin nickel-iron films evaporated from a ring-source can be decreased by removal of the shadowed edge. In addition, the variation of the coercive forces of the films in a given run is reduced. Once the shadowed edge is removed, however, there is no further appreciable change in variation or reduction. The higher coercive forces present before etching result from the tapered film edge in the shadowed zone. This reduction in film thickness yields an increase of the coercive force, according to Néel's theory. It has not yet been determined whether the thickness decrease in the peripheral zone is sufficient to explain the value of the coercive force, or whether a change in film structure contributes to the peculiar domain pattern and to the coercive force"
"The electron-mirror microscope is a recent addition to the list of laboratory instruments available for magnetics studies. The device is not new. For several years it has been used to view surface irregularities, charges, and contact potentials;1–3it is only in the past year that its ability to reveal magnetic phenomena has been discovered and exploited."
"Determination of crystallite size and strain in permalloy films is being undertaken as part of a research program to relate the magnetic properties of electroplated films to their structural properties."
"By a straightforward application of Bayes' theorem of probability, the behavior is discussed of the credibilities (inductive probabilities) of competing hypotheses as functions of an increasing body of relevant empirical data. It is shown how the effect of a priori credibilities persists in the evaluation of credibilities in general, except in the important limiting cases investigated. An “inverse H-theorem” is mathematically demonstrated, according to which the entropy function defined in terms of the credibilities shows a net decrease in time. This decrease is not necessarily monotonous in an individual case, but is monotonous in the “expected” behavior of the inductive entropy function. Three machine-simulation experiments of inductive inference on the IBM 704 are described. The first two concern the classical problem of guessing the ratio of white and black balls in an urn. The third experiment concerns guessing a hidden pattern obeyed by a sequence of binary numbers."
"Definitions of Semiconductor Terms"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Perturbed Problem, Electrons in Germanium, Holes in Germanium and Silicon"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Effect of Crystal Symmetry, Expansion in Terms of Bloch Functions, Boundary Conditions"
"This chapter contains sections titled: The Hartree Method, The Hartree-Fock Method"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Half Title, Technology Press Research Monographs, Title, Copyright, Foreword, Preface, Contents"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Conservation of Energy, Conservation of Momentum"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Scattering by Ionized Impurities, Neutral-Impurity Scattering, Scattering by Dislocations, Electron-Electron Scattering, Comparative Study of the Various Scattering Processes under Low Applied Field, Comparison with Experiments"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Normal Temperature Dependence, Phonon Drag"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Calculation of the Matrix Element, Calculation of the Electronic Density ρ(Ev), Calculation of the Phonon Density R(Ekpλ)"
"This chapter contains sections titled: The Boltzmann Equation, Alternative Approach to Conduction Theory: The Energy-Gain Method, Case of a One-Dimensional Lattice"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Free Oscillations and Natural Frequencies, Forced Oscillations, Poles, and Zeros, Transient Response, Points of View Involving Energy and Power, Resonance, Problems"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Steady-State Solution, Some Aspects of Transient Response, Problems"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Time-Domain Solution of the Differential Equations, Traveling Waves, Boundary Conditions, Another Time-Domain Method, Problems"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Solution of the Equations, Traveling Waves, Complete Standing Waves, The Effects of a General Impedance Termination, The Smith Chart, Impedance Calculation, Problems"
"This chapter contains sections titled: The Dilemma of Lumped Circuits, Approximate Solutions, Another Exact Field Solution and the Concept of a “Distributed Circuit”, Transmission Line as a Distributed Circuit, Problems"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Definition of the Problem, Spherical Coordinates, Solution of Maxwell's Equations, Wave Impedance, Complex Power, The Physical Electric Dipole, Radiation Characteristics, Coupled Dipoles, The Receiving Properties of a Dipole, Radiation from Two or More Dipoles, Problems"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Lumped Electric Circuits, Electromagnetic Fields, Problems"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Uniform Plane Waves in the Time Domain, Plane Waves in the Sinusoidal Steady State and Frequency Domain, Normal Incidence of a Uniform Plane Wave, Oblique Incidence of a Uniform Plane Wave, Guided Waves, Problems"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Half Title, Title, Copyright, Dedication, Foreword, Preface, Contents"
"This chapter contains sections titled: The TEM Form of Maxwell's Equations (Time Domain), Transmission-Line Concepts for Two-Conductor Lines (Time Domain), Some General Features of TEM Waves in the Sinusoidal Steady State, Transmission-Line Concepts for Two-Conductor Lines (Sinusoidal Steady State), More About the TEM Field in a Two-Conductor Line, Some Examples, Transmission-Line Concepts for Multiconductor Lines, Problems"
"This chapter contains sections titled: Plane Waves (Frequency Domain), Normal Incidence of Uniform Plane Waves, Oblique Incidence of Uniform Plane Waves, Some Guided Waves, Problems"
"The united States Government exhibit for the 1958 Geneva Conference included a simulation of the main portion of the entire Experimental Boiling Water Reactor (EBWR) plant. The total simulation consisted of two operating panels similar to the EBWR control panels and an animated model of the plant. This discussion is limited to the computer technique utilized to accomplish a linear simulation of the neutron kinetics of the reactor over a full operating range of 8 decades."
"A dual-channel reactor protection system similar to the one that was developed for the Dresden Nuclear Power Station is described. This protection system utilizes commercially available components in coincidence circuits to achieve the system reliability that is required for power plant service."
"It has been found desirable and practical, in designing automatic control devices for starting nuclear reactors, to measure flux transients at extremely low flux levels, using the output from neutron-counting circuits. In general, a logarithmic count-rate circuit is used, and the logarithmic indication of flux thus obtained is differentiated electrically to yield an indication of the period of the reactor flux."
"In bringing a nuclear reactor up to power, the flux level goes through as many as 8 to 10 decades from the off position through full power. Somewhere within this range of power the reactor goes critical (effective multiplication factor equals one). This point where criticality is reached may be 7 decades below the full power point. In most stationary water-cooled reactors, this total spread is divided into three ranges of control. The start-up range normally covers 3 to 4 decades; the intermediate range, 4 to 5 decades; and the power range, 1 to 2 decades."
"By the use of feedback amplifier techniques considerable improvement has been made in the speed and/or stability of the familiar electrometer tube micromicroammeter. Simplicity and compactness have been retained. With 100 feet of input cable, the amplifier has a 150-millisecond time constant at 10 ¯11 amperes full scale with 0.05% per day stability."
"Control system philosophy for an aircraft nuclear power plant is discussed briefly. Advantages are presented for a power-range magnetic control system with a minimum number of moving parts. Control system elements and computing devices are discussed in detail. Performance of a breadboard version of the control system is evaluated."
"Reactor power excursions involving stable periods ranging from a few seconds to 2 ms (milliseconds) have been experimentally investigated in the course of the Kinetic Experiments on Water Boilers (KEWB) program conducted by Atomics International for the U.S. Atomic Energy Commission. Reactivity introduction, power and temperature measurement, and data analysis have imposed some unique requirements in instrumentation and special apparatus."
"The concept of instantaneous observation of the complete speed-torque characteristic of a motor while it accelerates from standstill to full speed is based on the assumption that a large percentage of the torque is utilized in acceleration of the inertia if the motor is otherwise unloaded. The basic instrument needed is an accelerometer with dynamic response capable of indicating the true starting torque and the transient cusps of the torque curve. This paper discusses the application of a 2-phase a-c instrument tachometer and active high-gain operational amplifiers to the design of a portable speed-acceleration instrument. The tachometer utilizes a drag-cup rotor and produces a constant frequency carrier output that has a minimum of ripple with frequency proportional to speed, thus eliminating the problem at low speeds of ripple amplification by differentiation encountered when using conventional tachometers. The constant frequency carrier output simplifies the problem of amplification and noise found with the homopolar-type generator. The use of stabilized operational amplifiers for differentiation and amplification after demodulation both provide the necessary dynamic response for the torque signal and virtually eliminates the problem of drift in the d-c stages. Operational applications of the instrument including torque versus speed, acceleration versus time, and speed versus time are included from the engineering laboratories of Robbins and Myers, Inc., Springfield, Ohio."
"In the conventional or general-purpose digital computer, operands are transferred in their entirety from one functional block to another. The inputs and outputs of such a block are simply the values of the constants and variables concerned. In the incremental computer, however, only portions of the operands are transferred. The inputs and outputs of a functional block are increments of the quantities concerned; the digital differential analyzer is one example.1"
"Equivalent circuits have been established by Kron and others who used finite-difference and integral forms of Maxwell's equations and equations of mathematical physics in general, and in many cases applied them to actual problems in obtaining solutions. Examples of application are to problems of compressible and incompressible fluid, electromagnetic fields, elastic fields, and heat flow. See references 1 through 19."
"For some time, the need has been apparent for a high-performance receiving tube to operate in the very-high-frequency (vhf) region up to 450 mc (megacycles per second) and to bridge the gap between available receiving tubes and high-performance transmitting tubes. This tube should be capable of operating as an oscillator, amplifier, or frequency multiplier. Desirable features of such a tube are that it have a low input power requirement, withstand high ambient temperatures, and be as small as possible. A reliable method of connecting the tube electrodes to lumped constant circuit components with minimum capacitance, should be provided."
"The designer of a computer control system for continuous operation in an industrial process must assume two roles. One role is that of the computer expert responsible for assuring that the best computer techniques are used. The other role is that of the process application expert responsible for assuring that the system conforms to the best in process design practices."
"This paper examines the operation of a magnetic servoamplifier in which the load circuit includes the resistance and inductance of a servomotor control winding shunted by a tuning capacitor. Amplifier parameters (tuning capacitor C, limiting resistor Rs, and quiescent firing angle θ) are being optimized for best linearity and maximum motor torque. Amplifier motor transfer characteristics are established. The results are illustrated by a numerical example and verified by experiments."
"A form of response to a step input in a physical system is the nondecreasing type, which is of interest to the circuit designer, especially when an overshoot in the step response is objectionable. The purpose of this paper is to discuss the properties of the pole and zero locations of rational system functions whose step responses are of this form. The few known properties of this nature are scattered mainly throughout the mathematical literature. These results are gathered here and presented in a unified manner. Secondly, several other results are developed that are believed to be new. In some cases, the proofs of the following theorems are merely sketched or omitted entirely when they are available in the referenced literature."
"A new approach to automatic voltage control of a regulating transformer was sought in conjunction with a rectifier transformer and semiconductor rectifying elements connected in a 6-phase double-way circuit. Conventional control for a load tap changer is not designed to detect and correct for fluctuations directly in a d-c line, yet close control of the voltage across the 40-kv rectifier output was required for a radar pulsing station. The alternative of a-c sensing at a point just ahead of the rectifier transformer was considered but this was abandoned due to the problems of reactive drop compensation."
"Automatic data processing is a tool for transforming, processing, and calculating information. If one accepts this fact, one should be prepared to describe the fundamental capabilities of automatic data processing. Since communications is itself a tool, it is instructive to attempt to describe its fundamental nature in a similar frame of reference and compare the two. The results of such a simple analysis lead to a viewpoint which has important implications on system and equipment design."
"Measurements have been made of moon-reflected radar signals transmitted by the Royal Radar Establishment from Malvern, England, and received by the Electrical Engineering Research Laboratory of The University of Texas at Austin, Texas. These supplement monostatic radar measurements made by a number of organizations and a few bistatic measurements which have been noted in news articles and mentioned at technical symposia. Reports have been made of monostatic measurements in the very-high-frequency (vhf) band by Trexler and Evans and in the 3,000-mc (megacycle) region by Yaplee and Hughes.1_4"
"The R1 transposition system (sometimes coded R1-5) has been employed in many cases for transposing rural open-wire telephone lines. These have been both subscriber lines and trunk lines, voice and carrier. The R1 system has the attractiveness of: 1. Patterns lending themselves to simplicity in engineering and construction. 2. No transposition “sections” or “S” poles. 3. No quantitative limits on sag or span length deviations. 4. Up to 5 pairs per crossarm and up to 4 crossarms."
"In the recent literature1‾5 certain aspects of a nonlinear theory were introduced which enable the solving of a class of nonlinear systems whose general dynamic equation is given by one like the following: $Z(D) x (t) + F \\{x, \\dot {x}, \\ldots \\} = g(t) \\eqno{\\hbox{(1)}}$ where the linear part Z(D)x(t), the nonlinear part F{x, x .}, and the driving function g(t) are required to satisfy certain conditions given in references 1 and 2, and x is the response function. The dotted letters are time derivatives, so that x = d/dt. The linear integro-differential operator has the form $Z(D) = \\sum^{N_{2}}_{\\pi=N_{1}} f_{n}D^{n}$ The coefficients fn are constants for each value of n and the bounds N1 and N2 are positive, negative, or either one is zero, depending on Z(D). Time-varying linear terms are easily added in a similar manner and offer no difficulty either of a theoretical or computational nature. The forcing function g(t), although assumed here to be a deterministic process, may be relaxed to a random process with the aid of the transform ensemble theorem, as explained in reference 6."
"The object of this paper is to derive the time constant of a 3-phase bridge connected magnetic amplifier from its static control characteristic. The bridge connection is the most widely used 3-phase connection because of its high degree of utilization for rectifiers and magnetic components; it was therefore chosen for this study."
"At present there is no direct method of comparing the relative applicability of the many computer-control schemes which have recently been proposed for use by the chemical and petroleum processing industries. While many of the computer manufacturers involved have undertaken joint study programs with several of the chemical and petroleum companies, proprietary considerations have to date prevented a direct comparison of the results obtained."
"Several years ago Dr. T. A. Buchhold of the General Electric Company, while still associated with Redstone Arsenal and later with Ford Instrument Company, made theoretical investigations about the transient performance of magnetic amplifiers. In the course of his work the concept of the specific dynamic resistance of square loop core materials and, directly related to it, the concept of the dynamic resistance of magnetic amplifiers was established as a convenient means to express mathematically the performance of such amplifiers. Although Dr. Buchhold presented his findings in an internal company report, his work has unfortunately never been published as a paper. This situation causes certain difficulties in presenting a paper which uses the foregoing concept without at the same time referring in at least some detail to Dr. Buchhold's original work."
"In recent years it has been noted in several phases of the electronics industry that advanced engineering developments follow the developments in related components. As a more extensive knowledge of the components and their operation becomes commonplace among engineers, their application becomes greatly accelerated. An example of this is found in the technology of thermionic devices, where the knowledge of electron dynamics led from the vacuum tube to the cathode-ray tube, the photo multiplier, the traveling-wave tube, and a host of other components. Also, in a few short years we have seen advances in the knowledge of semiconductors lead from the dry-disk rectifier to more advanced semiconductor junction rectifiers, transistors, and other components, which seem to be increasing in number almost monthly."
"This work was done to develop a conductor insulation with good space factor and winding properties, capable of operating at 1,000 degrees Fahrenheit (538 degrees centigrade). A flexible, clean-burning polyester resin was used as a binder for a glass frit and a refractory in a wire enamel composition. The polyester resin contributes sufficient flexibility to the enamel to wind it into equipment. After completion of the winding operation, the organic portion of the magnet wires is burned out and the glass frit is fused to bind the refractory. The resulting insulation is not a continuous film, and air breakdown values are obtained."
"The theory of operation and practical limitations of a toroidal cross-field magnetic modulator are discussed. Approximate relationships are derived for the amplitude of the fundamental component of output voltage, conversion power gain, and output impedance. Experiments on devices of this kind using two types of ferrite core material are described. The agreement between experimental results and analytical calculations is satisfactory enough to warrant the use of the derived relations in design procedures. Among other things, it has been shown that the conversion power gain is directly proportional to excitation frequency and the number of turns on the input winding, and is independent of the number of turns on the output winding."
"A magnetic pulse generator using a controlled rectifier in the charging circuit is capable of generating high-power pulses and is suitable as a radar modulator. In the discharge network saturable inductors operate as high-power switching devices and, together with the capacitors, reduce the duration of the current pulse from a long duration at the charging circuit to a short duration at the output."
"The continued development of automatic controls has emphasized the need for limit switches on indicating and recording instruments which will not restrict the normal operation of the measuring unit. This control has been obtained in the past in two ways: 1. By contacts carried on the instrument pointer. 2. By employing a vane attached to the pointer to change the constants of a vacuumtube oscillator circuit, and using the change in oscillator current to operate a relay."
"Communications in the area presently served by the Union Pacific Railroad Company preceded the Railroad by several years. The telegraph line of the Overland Telegraph Company, starting at Omaha, Nebraska, and extending westward through Salt Lake City, Utah, to San Francisco, California, was constructed in the years 1860 and 1861; while the construction of the Railroad did not start until 1864."
"In 1948 the Western Electric Company introduced a 2-way telephone voice repeater which operated in a radically different manner than had previous 2-way telephone repeaters. The new repeater employed the negative impedance principle, meaning that it was essentially a 2-terminal device intended to be inserted in series with a telephone circuit. Previous voice repeaters were 4-terminal units made up of combinations of 1-way amplifiers and hybrid coil circuits connected to provide 2-way transmission. The popularity of the new repeater stemmed from its low cost and from the fact that it could pass d-c supervisory currents and dial pulse signals without need for special bypass equipment."
"Extending along the east coast of North Carolina from Manteo in the north to Atlantic in the south lies a chain of islands known as the Outer Banks. Within this chain are Hatteras, Ocracoke, and Portsmouth. It is with the island of Ocracoke that this paper is concerned."
"The general telephone Company of California is presently the largest operating company within the General Telephone System. Its major operating territories embrace the Los Angeles metropolitan area and include important exchange areas situated in other sections of central and southern California. For many years, this company has standardized on the use of step-by-step switching equipment manufactured by the Automatic Electric Company. Included in our operating areas at this time are 37 exchanges which are served by a total of 70 step-by-step central offices. These offices vary in size from small terminal per-line installations of 200 lines to large multiunit offices of 43,000 terminals."
"Tone operation of electronic switching centers is the natural outgrowth of 4-wire operation of communication systems using a radio link. The radio circuit may be anywhere between the subscriber and the switching center or between switching centers."
"Present-day television (TV) receivers utilize circuits that generate an appreciable amount of radio-frequency power. These signals exhibit the same characteristics as those which would be present if they came from a miniature transmitter, and they are capable of causing interference with other radio receiving devices."
"The telephone industry is beginning to use computers to engineer new telephone switching equipment and additions to it. Most of this equipment which sets up calls among subscribers is located in central offices. An examination of the factors involved in manually engineering this equipment will help to explain why Bell Telephone Company engineers feel computers will make engineering faster, cheaper, and more accurate."
"The design and installation of a freight-car information sorting system for the. Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railroad was recently completed by the Stromberg-Carlson Company. The system, located in the Chicago, Ill., offices of the Rock Island Line, receives information on train make-up from several distant marshalling yards via teletypewriter links, records these messages, and sorts them. The Wheel Report Sorting System, as it is called, sorts the incoming information according to state of origin of shipment and state of destination, and routes this information to teletypewriters assigned to these states. In the course of designing the sorting system, a requirement developed for a means of storing multiple incoming messages efficiently, while sorting units are busy. The storage means must permit simultaneous recording and read-out at different rates, and must also operate intermittently on read-out due to switching of output during sorting. This service can be provided by paper-tape punches and readers with a buffer loop between. However, the information density on paper tape is low, thus creating a need for a physically large buffer storage. This fact, coupled with the need for continuously replenishing the tape, and the maintenance requirements of punches, led to the search for a more suitable means of storage. Magnetic recording presents the possibility of higher information density in addition to using a reusable medium. However, magnetic tape recorders of the conventional capstan-drive type do not generally provide for differing speeds of simultaneous recording and read-out with a buffer loop between for “first in, first out” storage. In addition, the requirement that the read-out be intermittent due to the setting up of connections to different printers is difficult to achieve without sacrificing information density for starting and braking space."
"As implied by the title, the intent of this article is to relate the manner of use and value of the Traffic Usage Recorder as applied to telephone traffic engineering. To develop a full appreciation of this, a general knowledge of the responsibility of the traffic engineer is required. In a broad sense, the traffic engineer must see that facilities of the right kind and of the right amounts are in the right place at the right time to give the right grade of telephone service. An important phase in this provision of telephone facilities is in determining the requirements of the telephone subscriber. In the process of estimating subscriber requirements, summarized call carrying and associated equipment usage data are analyzed, projected, and modified to reflect expected growth, new service, and proposed equipment arrangements. The modified basic data are then converted to equipment quantities and trunks through the use of probability tables reflecting the desired grades of service. The first step of this process, the gathering and summarization of usage data, is of prime importance and has been a major problem to the traffic engineer."
"The nationwide telephone service which the country enjoys today is largely the result of careful systems engineering of which one objective is the establishment and application of uniform transmission standards. Transmission measurements constitute the essential means by which circuit design can be verified and the performance characteristics dictated by it maintained during operation."
"Highly unfavorable operating conditions are often created by the depositing of static charges on teletypewriter paper tape and rolls. This phenomenon of static electrification will cause delays and require the attention of operating personnel. Messages can even be lost as the copy may jam in moving mechanisms and be mutilated. Although radium devices have been employed for a number of years by the Bell System for static control,1 the increasing number of state laws regulating the use of radioactive substances made it desirable to find some suitable substitution. The paper discusses the operating principles and design features of a static eliminator utilizing a high-voltage discharge."
"A recent paper has described the 83B1 teletypewriter selective calling system.1 The UNIVAC airlines reservation system as a special-purpose application of a general-purpose data processor has also been described.2 The present paper continues the description of the combination of the two, with special emphasis on the alterations, relatively minor, of the standard teletypewriter selective calling system to permit its use as the communications link between the central processing equipment and various remote agent offices to which the public comes to ask questions, reserve seats, or buy tickets."
"The l-2 control terminal which is described in this paper, is a basic element in a complete “package” radio system. The system design is building block in nature with only a few building blocks required for a complete operating system that is devoid of frequently unnecessary embellishments. However, additional panels are available where more than the basic functions are required."
"Synoposis: It is suggested that a single electromagnetic pulse having a length in space of the order of a meter can be radiated and received by low-Q (broad-banded) antennas. Rough calculations indicate that peak powers of 100 kw probably can be generated with existing electronic components, capable of producing usable signal returns from large semispecular surfaces at distances of the order of miles. The resulting “untuned all-video-radar system” would constitute an electromagnetic analogy to the well-known seismic reflection method of geophysical prospecting, in which a single compressional acoustic pulse (under ideal conditions) is emitted isotropically and reflections are received from successive extensive, flat-lying, reflecting surfaces. A single vhf (very-high-frequency) pulse should combine the advantage of good distance resolution with less tendency than microwaves to be absorbed or scattered by the imperfections in natural materials. Preliminary experiments at 125 mc (megacycles) indicate that interfaces less than 60 cm (centimeters) apart could be so resolved. The development and initial application of the method as a rapid air-borne method of profiling the thicknesses of radio-transparent layered materials, such as floating fresh-water ice (for aircraft landing areas) and the polar continental ice sheets. Potential applications in high-speed extraterrestrial communication may also exist."
"The san francisco BAY area, like many other metropolitan areas, has had a tremendous population increase in a very short period of time. More people mean more industry and more homes. The demand for telephone circuits to give these customers the service they desire has created a cable and conduit problem. Short-haul carrier systems have made great strides toward the relief of this problem, but even these have been only a partial answer. The purpose of this paper is to describe an experiment made by The Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company for further utilization of existing cable plant to meet this rapidly increasing demand for service."
"In order to supply additional mobile-radio-telephone service to the public in the greater Los Angeles area, The Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company applied for four 450-mc (megacycle) radio channels in June 1956. At that time there were only six channels available for the domestic public mobile-telephone service (MTS) in the 450-460-mc common-carrier radio-frequency (r-f) band."
"The range of global communications has been limited, in the past, by the ionospheric mode of propagation for the very high frequencies, and by the ground-wave mode of propagation for the very low frequencies."
"In a previous paper,1 Perkins describes a time division multiplex transmission path, developed for use in an electronic switchboard.2 This transmission path incorporates the use of a “resonant transfer” filter, the operation of which was first described in reference 3. This type of filter and the associated theory have since been described by several authors.4,5 The purpose of this paper is to present a method used to synthesize an economical network whose characteristics will allow it to operate efficiently in this system. The first sections cover the general requirements on the network and the special conditions imposed to effect a proper operation of the networks in a resonant transfer system. The general method of synthesis is then presented which involves both the steady-state and transient responses. Since the actual synthesis by use of well-known procedures of insertion parameter theory are familiar to most filter designers, the details of the synthesis are omitted and only the general procedure is given."
"Although most present-day teleprinters have mechanically operated cam-type distributors, which are quite satisfactory and reliable, a recent trend in the industry has been to develop electronic ones.1,2 This paper describes an electronic distributor developed at the electrical engineering laboratory of the University of Roorkee, India. The distributor uses a ring counter consisting of cold cathode trigger tubes. The timing pulses are derived from the 50-cycle main supply. The 1.5-unit stop pulse is insured by a novel method of reversing the phase of the sinusoidal supply driving the pulse generator during the stop period of each signal train. Since no hot cathode tube is used at any stage of the distributor, it does not require any warm-up time. The distributor can be fed either directly from the keyboard or from a perforated tape. It can also be made to work from a 5-or 6-unit code by means of a code-selector switch."
"Electric apparatus represents a large portion of the equipment required for productive activities in the industrial plant: generators to produce power; cables, transformers, and switch-gear for transmission and distribution; and motors for transforming electric energy into mechanical power. Insulation, the critical part of electric apparatus, has a limited service life, a variable depending upon the deteriorating and contaminating factors associated with the operation of the equipment. Production interruptions and unnecessary damage from insulation failures represent an economic waste in industry. Needless replacement of insulation, primarily on the basis of age and visual inspection, without substantiating data of its being in questionable condition, further adds to economic waste. As an obvious deduction, there is a definite need for a test which will reliably evaluate the condition of insulation for continued service."
"Cables are designed to have special characteristics which will make them suitable for particular uses or purposes. In the case of telephone cable the purpose is primarily to transmit information at voice and carrier frequency during an expected life of approximately 30 years. To achieve this, certain mechanical and electrical characteristics must be built into the cable. Mechanical characteristics include such characteristics as resistance to environmental factors including heat, cold, wind, lightning, moisture, sunlight, and oxygen, as well as resistance to damage by rodents and insects, and by workmen. Other desirable mechanical characteristics involve factors of convenience of manufacture, installation, and joining."
"This article attempts to give an orderly, critical classification of a wide variety of self-saturating single-phase series-control magnetic-amplifier output circuits. It the article is successful, it will be clear that a confusing multitude of circuits appearing in the literature may be fitted into a very simple scheme. The relative merit of various alternative circuits for accomplishing different types of output will also become apparent."
"Most telephone conversations are made between two parties. Occasionally the conversation may involve three parties, where the third party talks on an extension telephone. Another form of group conversation involves the interconnection of several telephone lines for a conference call. Here the lines are connected together in a conference circuit at the telephone exchange in a manner to provide optimum transmission and impedance matching. Small conference groups can be coupled through repeating coils but larger groups and conference circuits employed on toll switchboards need an amplifier to maintain satisfactory transmission levels. Current practice is to use telephone repeaters for this purpose."
"The phenomenon of hysteresis occurring in a series nonlinear resonant circuit has interested engineers for a long time. The phenomenon is associated in literature with a resonance occurring at a critical value of applied voltage where the nonlinear inductance, variable with the magnitude of the forcing function, reaches a value so as to resonate with the fixed capacitor. This is probably the reason for using the term ferroresonance to describe the hysteresis behavior. The validity of such an explanation fails when circuits with reactors of sharp magnetic saturation, such as Deltamax and Orthonol, are considered. The inductance of such reactors may be approximated without appreciable error by linear regions of zero and infinite inductances. As will be shown in this paper, the hysteresis phenomenon still exists and even becomes more prominent as the magnetic saturation becomes sharper. On the other hand, the usual explanation given in literature fails when applied to such ideal circuits, since an inductance having values of either zero or infinity could not resonate with a finite capacitance."
"Memory for computer-type systems has received extensive study and design effort in the past few years. This effort has been directed mainly at producing faster, larger, and less expensive systems in the thousand-to mega-bit sizes."
"This paper briefly describes in general terms procedures for analysis and methods of synthesis of sampled-data systems and indicates present areas of research and some of the important problems to be tackled in this field."
"The U. S. army signal Corps required a basic telephone switching system which could fulfill the functions of a local central office and provide the basis for a long distance (LD) switching center. In addition, a complete switching network was required, built up of a series of local and LD switchboards."
"There are a variety of engineering applications in which the dynamics of the equipment being used or designed are expressible by a Laplace transform which contains both polynomial functions of s and exponential functions. In networks and in feedback control systems, transcendental terms in the Laplace transform arise due to diffusion in a transistor, dead time or time of flow of materials in heat exchangers and flow reactors, catalyst flow time in a catalytic cracker, time of transmission of an electromagnetic pulse in radar and telemetering applications, time of transmission of an ultrasonic pulse in sonar, materials transport time in thickness controls for rolling mills, the sampling time in sampled data systems and in digital computer controls, and the carrier period in magnetic-amplifier and thyratron-type controls. This paper will present some of the basic features of the mathematical treatment of mixed transcendental and polynomial transforms. Root locus methods, complex-plane techniques for factoring polynomials, and evaluation of the residues for an inverse transform can all be performed through the use of two complex planes, one for the polynomial representation, and the other for the transcendental terms."
"Since 1941 automatic data-message-switching systems using teletypewriter techniques have been widely used to transmit messages from each of a multiplicity of sources to destinations in accordance with address codes included in each message.1 Existing systems have increased in size and complexity along with the business operations which they serve. Future data-message-switching systems show promise of being even larger and more complex, and of operating at much higher speeds."
"Existing microwave systems on the Pacific Great Eastern Railway have been depicted on the railway route map. See Fig. 1."
"Several problems encountered in the design of automatic processing systems for data obtained from search radars give rise to a requirement for the prediction of the present or future position of a target on the basis of past position reports. The most obvious of such problems is that of scan-to-scan correlation of target reports. Here the prediction of the present position of the target determines the center of the “gate” in which the target is sought; and the accuracy of this prediction determines the size of the gate. It is important that the prediction be accurate and the gate size reasonably small in order to avoid confusion between neighboring targets. Any scan-to-scan correlation system will break down when the density of targets becomes too great. The accuracy of prediction determines the density at which trouble may be encountered. While it is not expected that target densities will ordinarily attain unmanageable proportions, this situation could easily arise due to enemy action in launching decoys and chaff."
"At the symposium on global Communications in Washington, D. C., in June of 1954, Mr. Donald of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company-presented a paper discussing the global public telephone service as provided by that company. It is proposed here to review some aspects of public telephone service in the light of the important developments that have taken place since then."
"Thermoelectric generators are presently being developed for many uses which range from small flame-operated power supplies for automatic control systems to several kilowatt-size thermopiles for prototype evaluation of marine propulsion systems.1 This renewal of interest in thermoelectric power generation and thermoelectric heat pumping is based on recent advances in the development of special semiconducting materials which exhibit properties intermediate to metals and semiconductors of the type used in P-N junction transistor devices. Often called “semimetals,” these thermoelectric materials are prepared from semiconducting crystals which are more heavily doped than transistor devices to provide higher electrical conductivity. Such materials exhibit much lower thermal conductivity than do metals and substantially higher thermal emf (electromotive force)."
"The bell telephone laboratories, inc., have recently completed the development of a microwave radio system to operate in the 11-kmc (kilomegacycle) band. The system is coded TJ and is designed for short-haul and medium-haul systems. One of the first systems was installed between Flagstaff and Phoenix, Ariz. It is hoped that a description of the system may be of interest to other engineers in the communications industry."
"Two methods are available for the simultaneous transmission of several telephone conversations on the same radio beam or cable. These are frequency division multiplex (FDM) in which different conversations are assigned different portions of the electromagnetic spectrum, and pulse time modulation (PTM) in which different conversations are sampled at intervals and the samples interleaved in time for transmission. Among the methods of pulse time multiplex are pulse position modulation (PPM), pulse width modulation (PWM), pulse amplitude modulation (PAM), and pulse code modulation (PCM). This last method is perhaps the most elegant of all, and the most complicated in terms of the necessary terminal equipment. The advantages procured by this increased complexity are a relatively high immunity to noise in the transmission system and, of special importance in some applications, the possibility of encrypting the signals for greater privacy by means other than the usual “scrambler.” Under many circumstances, PCM systems will be less expensive and more reliable than other multiplex methods."
"This paper (a modified version of the material in an unpublished paper of the same name by the author presented at the AIEE 1957 Summer General Meeting) introduces aspects of a generalized mathematical theory for the analysis of a certain class of nonlinear systems. (Since the original presentation of this paper other work has appeared,1-5 which enlarges on the comments made here and extends the present work.) It is shown that under a very broad class of conditions, consistent with physical realization, a class of systems exists for which it is possible to develop exact and unique mathematical solutions. These conditions are important since nonlinear differential equations do not in general possess such unique properties although linear differential equations do."
"The recent development of the first truly high-power silicon transistor and the demand for high-efficiency, regulated, solid-state power supplies have stimulated interest in silicon-transistor-magnetic-amplifier combinations. Apart from the usual ability of silicon devices to survive a higher temperature than their germanium counterparts, the new transistors, due to the high-voltage ratings and low internal losses, can control considerably more power than contemporary silicon units. These devices have proved to be extremely rugged and are virtually comparable with magnetic amplifiers in that respect. Thus, to all the advantages which have already been attributed to transistor-inverter-high-frequency magnetic-amplifier systems, it is now possible to attach the valuable qualities of silicon power transistors."
"An a-c charged magnetic pulse modulator consisting of a resonant charging stage and several successive pulse-modulating stages is the subject of a paper by W. S. Melville.1 These pulse-modulating stages employ saturable reactors used as switching elements, and a series of capacitors. This modulator, if designed for a high-pulse repetition frequency, requires a separate frequency converting device whose output frequency must be equal to the desired pulse repetition frequency. Either an alternator or a magnetic frequency multiplier can be employed for this purpose. However, the magnetic frequency multiplier has considerable weight and volume, as well as a low power factor for high ratios of frequency conversion. An alternator, if built for a low speed, will also have a large weight. If designed for high speed, it has a limited life resulting from problems with bearings. To have a jitter-free-operation of the radar system, the voltage and frequency of the supplying power source must be regulated to close tolerances."
"The lack of a simple and reasonably accurate model for the behavior of magnetic materials has been the major source of difficulty in all the attempts to analyse and predict the behavior of magnetic amplifiers. In several cases, even a qualitative understanding of the operation of certain circuits was impossible to achieve because of the lack of such a model."
"When two or more magnetic amplifiers are cascaded, it is generally found that the over-all characteristic cannot be accurately predicted from the individual stages. The cascaded gain is less than the product of the separate gains. There may be abrupt changes in the slope of the cascaded control characteristic, and sometimes “snap-action” occurs. The over-all transfer function has a time constant lag term for each stage and perhaps additional time constants introduced by the interstage coupling network, for example, where filtering is employed."
"Amplifiers of the magnetic modulator type have been found useful for amplifying signals as small as 10-13 to 10-17 watts.1,2 The most common design utilizes balanced cores and a flux coupled output circuit separate from the excitation circuit. The output is the difference output of the cores and is predominantly second harmonic in content. The zero drift is small because core unbalance results only in generation of a fundamental output component which can be supressed by filtering,3 and the elimination of “series-connected” loads in the excitation circuit reduces drifts arising from excitation amplitude fluctuations 4 Parallel connection of windings which introduces problems of d-c resistance balancing, and the use of output rectifiers which results in drifts arising from d-c feedback, are also avoided to reduce zero drift further."
"In the analysis and design of self-saturating magnetic amplifiers, the flux-resetting characteristics of the saturable reactors must be known either analytically or graphically. In the past, the reactor flux-resetting characteristic has been represented by a single, unique relation between flux and resetting magnetomotive force.1-3 Such a restrictive reactor representation has limited usefulness because changes in operating conditions such as control voltage waveform, relative control circuit impedance level, and supply frequency cause considerable change in the flux-resetting characteristic."
"The primary object of this paper is to develop a theory for the 3-phase bridge magnetic amplifier. A further object is to describe the utilization of this theory to arrive at design and performance equations which are sufficiently simple and accurate for engineering purposes. Part I deals with the steady-state operation, and Part II (which is planned for future publication) with the transient performance. Because of space limitations, the full description of the circuit components has been relegated to Part II."
"The fundamental problem in the analysis and design of magnetic amplifiers is the determination of the unsaturated impedance of the reactor by some test less specialized than insertion in the actual circuit. For tape and ferrite cores driven by very large currents, such as are encountered in computer applications, fairly successful approaches have been developed, although they are still incapable of explaining some observed phenomena.1-3 Unfortunately, cores operating at normal magnetic-amplifier frequencies are not correctly described by these representations, and the designer has been forced to use either extremely idealized models or fairly limited extrapolations from specific measurements."
"Measurements of response time of magnetic amplifiers and similar carrier-modulated control devices have always presented problems to the design engineer. A number of methods have been described in the literature. Some of these have been proved to be reliable and accurate. Nevertheless, practical considerations often have limited their widespread usage."
"Magnetic amplifiers incorporating transistors have received considerable emphasis in the literature. Many circuits have been devised using magnetic amplifiers and transistors in combination to achieve many different characteristics. This paper describes a characteristic available with this combination of devices that has not been heretofore described. By utilization of the circuitry to be described, an amplifier can be designed that has a self-regulated output for variations in supply excitation. This characteristic is inherent to the circuitry; not accomplished by the addition of compensating networks. While self-regulation is the primary advantage to be gained by use of the circuitry, no sacrifice is made in gain, temperature stability, or frequency stability from that of a conventional magnetic amplifier. In addition, since the transistor is utilized only as a switch (transistors have very low saturated resistances as compared with magnetic amplifiers) the regulation of the device with load is very good."
"The problem of digital to analog conversion occurs frequently in systems using digital computers. Where power gain is needed, where a high degree of accuracy must be maintained, and where speed of response is not a limiting factor, magnetic amplifiers have special utility in decoding of digital information. Based on the saturable reactor with multiple control windings proportioned in a binary scale, a magnetic amplifier circuit has been devised to convert a 10-digit parallel binary-coded input to an analog voltage ranging from 0 to 102.3 volts average with an accuracy of better than one part in a thousand. With the 10-digit input, three saturable reactors are used for the basic conversion to analog and a subsequent stage of self-balancing magnetic amplifier provides additional gain to drive a servomagnetic amplifier. In the over-all conversion circuit, the inherent feedback, signal mixing, and power gain capabilities of magnetic amplifiers appear to result in a simpler and more reliable circuit than could be achieved with other techniques.1 This paper discusses the application of magnetic amplifiers in a digital to analog conversion."
"With the development of new types of ferromagnetic materials, magnetic conductors are increasingly used in connection with automatic control and electric power, and for industrial and scientific purposes. Here, the a-c resistance varies not only with the frequency but also with the current, as the permeability is not constant over the cross section of the wire. Previous authors1‐3 have given experimental results, and have used qualitative solutions. To make the solution possible, the theoretical analysis has been mainly based on assuming average constant permeability over the cross section of the conductor; this, however, is not actually the case, as the permeability varies from the axis to the circumference; see Figs. 1 through 3. As a consequence, previous authors have not found it possible to obtain numerical correlation between the magnetic properties of such wire deduced from its impedance measurement and those measured by direct magnetic methods. There is still less possibility of predicting the a-c resistance or inductance of these wires from their measured magnetic properties."
"For many years teletypewriter users have operated without automatic means for detecting errors. This was principally because a large part of the transmitted material was ordinary English text with a redundancy so large that for the most part there was no difficulty in reconstructing a misspelled word. For example, recognizing that “enginaer” means “engineer” was simple and obvious. For the correct transmission of numerals various expedients were used, such as sending all numerals twice, spelling out the words, as “one,” “two,” and “five.”"
"Single side-band (ssb) and independent side-band (ISB) radiotelegraph systems allow for a high degree of frequency-division multiplexing as contrasted to the requirement for time division multiplexing in usual frequency shift keyed carrier systems. This advantage is the principal justification for its use, especially for those circuits requiring high-speed traffic-handling capacities."
"Energy considerations and experience have both indicated that measurements of the R, L, and C coefficients of an existing electrical network will lead to the positive semidefinite quadratic forms1‐3 $g^{T}(t)Rg(t) \\ge0 \\eqno {\\hbox{(1)}}$ $Q^{T}(t)DQ(t) \\ge0 \\eqno {\\hbox{(2)}}$ $g^{T}(t)Lg(t) \\ge0 \\eqno {\\hbox{(3)}}$."
"Narrow-band frequency shift carrier telegraphy has found steadily increasing usage throughout the communications industry since such systems were first introduced. Today, the major communication companies of the United States and Canada are rapidly expanding their carrier telegraph networks, and many applications are being found among such industries as the railroad and pipeline companies. A surprising number of data transmission problems may be solved through the use of these modern high-speed telegraph circuits."
"This paper describes a circular-polarization duplexer for use in the millimeter (mm) wavelength range. Such a duplexer finds its field of application in any system which utilizes the same antenna for simultaneous transmission and reception, for example, a continuous-wave radar. The mm wavelengths are here defined as covering the range from 1 to 10 mm (frequency range 30,000 to 300,000 megacycles).1 Much interest has been shown in these frequencies because of the possibility of directive high-gain antennas of small size and because of atmospheric properties peculiar to the mm range such as absorption by oxygen and water vapor.2-4"
"The field disturbance produced by a conducting metallic body in an alternating magnetic field is of interest from several points of view, for instance in connection with eddy-current losses, induction heating, and in high-speed rotation of a sphere induced by a revolving field. Again, the location of a hidden metallic body, a problem met in a number of industries, is often carried out by producing an alternating magnetic field and detecting the presence of the body from the field distrubance produced by it."
"The presence of an ionized media in the neighborhood of radio communication systems can degrade performance by: 1. Insertion of attenuation and distortion in each channel. 2. Interference between channels caused by generation of harmonics and sum and difference frequencies."
"The an/ttc-12 switchboard is a newly designed electronic switchboard for military application employing solid-state switching techniques. This paper describes the transmission characteristics and performance of the system with respect to the multiplex methods employed. The systems logic and design philosophy of the switchboard are thoroughly described in reference 1."
"The increased consideration of random time functions in engineering and science has led to the development of various digital and analog techniques for the computation of autocorrelation and cross-correlation functions or their frequency domain equivalents, spectral density and cross-spectral density. Analog techniques, which are the subject of this paper, have been limited primarily to either the time domain1-3 (employing the operations of time delay, multiplication, and averaging) or the frequency domain4,5 (employing the operations of narrow-band filtering, multiplication, and averaging). A more general but little-known procedure, which was originally introduced by Lampard,6 is to represent the autocorrelation or cross-correlation function by a finite series of predetermined orthogonal approximating functions and to determine coefficients in the series by the operations of orthogonal filtering, multiplication, and averaging. Advantages of the series method include analytic representations for both the correlation and spectral functions and the possible elimination of delay lines or narrow-band filters."
"Two teletypewriter selective calling line systems, the TADS (Teletypewriter Automatic Dispatch System) system1 and the 83B1 system,2 have been described in recent papers. These systems are for single multistation lines; those in service at the present time have an average of about ten stations on a line although, theoretically, if the traffic offered per station is low, there may be as many as 40 stations on a line. As soon as the required number of stations exceeds that which can be efficiently handled on one line, other lines are required, with the need for transferring messages from one line to another."
"One of the types of nuclear reactors now under consideration for use in large central station plants makes use of an organic fluid as moderator and coolant. The organic fluid technology as applied to a nuclear reactor has been under development for several years. In addition, the Organic Moderated Reactor Experiment (OMRE) has been constructed and operated at the Nuclear Reactor Testing Station in Idaho. A number of preliminary designs have been prepared for organic reactor plants for the production of electric power as well as for the propulsion of merchant ships and the production of process steam for industry."
"Proceedings now under way before the Federal Communications Commission are again exploring the possibility that a large block of frequencies might be made available for extension of telephone service to moving vehicles on a large scale. If such an allocation is granted, universal mobile communications will become practically as well as technically feasible for the first time."
"The necessity for minimizing magnet weight has raised questions regarding the most efficient permanent-magnet shape for the magnetic circuit of air-borne magnetrons. The bowl-shaped permanent magnet was introduced, presumably because of its greater efficiency, to replace the conventional U-type permanent magnet.1 As far as is known, however, no direct evidence has been presented to support this view, and the purpose of this investigation was to determine by magnetic-circuit analysis the relative merits of the two permanent-magnet configurations."
"The two-valued characteristic of a switching network (i.e., the “make‰ or “break” of a contact, the presence or absence of a voltage at a node, or the activation or deactivation of an electric or mechanical control element) makes it possible to apply the principles of Boolean algebra, an algebra of logic, to the design and analysis of the network. The first important contribution to switching algebra was made by Shannon in 1938.1 The fundamental concepts, postulates, and theorems of switching algebra are well treated in many books; consequently they will not be presented in this report. Most of the terminology used in this presentation can be found in reference 2. The concept of transmission was chosen for this report on the application of a high-speed digital computer to the analysis of switching networks, although the concept of hindrance could be used equally well."
"The selective telephone party-line ringing system using mechanically tuned bells is relatively well known. A 5-party line, for example, may have phones with bells tuned to 20, 30, 40, 50, and 60-cycles, respectively. Introducing a 40-cycle ringing voltage to this party line will cause only the 40-cycle bell to ring."
"Whereas network theorems are widely used for the reduction and simplification of networks of a substantial degree of complexity, they tend to be neglected when complex systems are to be solved on a network analyzer. The network analyzer has proved to be a very satisfactory tool for power network analysis, but a review of the situation is profitable for cases of large problems which may exceed the number of impedance units available. There are two main general aspects to the use of network theorems: 1. The use of theorems for the specific investigation of a portion of a network, or the relationship between two portions of a network, e.g., Thevenin's, or the compensation, theorem. 2. The use of techniques of successive reduction, e.g., mesh-to-star transformation."
"One method for simulating the approximate effect of transport delay or time delay is through the use of active networks containing electronic operational amplifiers. It is necessary that such networks be used in the field of analog computers so that adequate simulation of problems involving time-delay phenomena can be solved. The thermal and hydraulic problems involved in the design of nuclear reactor power plants form an important class of present-day problems which require such networks."
"The basic theory of calculation of the capacitance of a capacitor comprised of two cocentric annular plates by the method of (annular) subareas is advanced. Confirming the theory, excellent agreement results between the several available experimentally determined (by electrolytic tank) values for specifically dimensioned capacitors and corresponding calculated values. A family of universal curves is constructed. These afford, by inspection, values of capacitance over the range of geometry of interest in practice."
"Business concerns in this age of automation are making steadily increasing use of their leased telegraph systems for the transmission of data in 5-level tape form. The number of errors introduced in the data by transmission over high-grade facilities is relatively small and can be tolerated in many business applications. In some situations, however, the error frequency must be reduced to the lowest possible rate. For these situations the telegraph company has developed equipment which will incorporate redundant check characters in the data at the transmitting end of the circuit and perform the check and delete the check characters at the receiving end."
"The transmission of telegraph or data signals by carrier frequencies operating in the voice-frequency band involves considerations not normally associated with voice signals transmitted in this band. Transmission requirements for the data or telegraph carrier facility may range from those of a single-channel 2-wire system to the maximum of a 26-channel 4-wire system."
"When an f-m (frequency modulated) signal is transmitted through a linear passive network, the output signal is hybrid, having both amplitude and frequency variations. The output expression can be written in terms of the input through use of circuit equations. However, the relationship is sufficiently complex that an evaluation of a direct solution of these equations is not possible except in simple cases. When the input modulation is periodic, or has a discontinuous step or impulse form, direct solution of the equation is useful; however, in other cases, approximations prove helpful in obtaining a solution."
"The usual regularly repeated raster scan, such as used for television picture presentation, is the result of two perpendicular deflection waves which produce a complex Lissajous figure in the form of a set of closely interwoven lines. The number of lines that appear in this raster during each repetition is an important factor in determining the amount of video information that can be presented."
"Applications of matrix techniques to the electronic network synthesis of several types of equations have been discussed in previous publications.1-5 A brief review of the basic theory is included in the Appendix. The objective of this paper is to apply these techniques to the synthesis of linear algebraic matrix equations. Existing methods are summarized and their domain of usefulness is indicated, particularly with respect to network stability."
"An experimental study has been made of the effects of temperature on the magnetic properties of the following ferromagnetic alloys: Orthonol, 4-79 Mo Permalloy, AEM 4750, L and Z Silectron, Transformer A, Audio Transformer A, 11.7 Alfenol, 15.5 Alfenol, 3 Mo Thermenol, 7-70 Perminvar, and Supermendur. Measurements were made of the d-c and 60 cps (cycles per second) magnetic properties in the temperature range of 24r-800 C (degrees centigrade). The materials were also evaluated after several temperature cycles between 24-500 C. The results indicate that, in general, high temperature decreased the maximum induction and the residual induction from their 24 C values. For all materials tested, with the exception of Supermendur and 11.7 Alfenol, the coercive force decreased with increase in temperature. The maximum permeability increased with increasing temperature until the Curie temperature was approached, then it started to decrease. The initial permeability also increased with increasing temperature, but unlike the maximum permeability, it generally started to decrease at a greater rate and at a lower temperature. Grain-oriented materials were more affected by temperature cycling than were unoriented materials. The effects of temperature cycling on the magnetic properties generally appeared as an increase in the coercive force, a decrease in the maximum permeability, a decrease in the residual flux density, and a decrease in the squareness ratio."
"Traditionally, the major effort of switching theory has been devoted to finding techniques for synthesizing optimum circuits. An optimum circuit is generally understood to be one which exhibits the required relationship among its input and output signals, and also costs less to construct than any other such circuit. The requirements on the relation among input and output signals can include not only a specification of which output signals are to result from the various combinations or sequences of input signals, but also a restriction on the delay between the application of the input and the appearance of the corresponding output signal. The desired synthesis procedure is one which does not place any restrictions on the form of the resulting network. Thus, the final circuit is to be optimum for the entire class of circuits which satisfy the design specifications. Even this is not exactly what is desired since a circuit which requires very complicated interconnections would probably be undesirable because of difficulties involved in maintaining proper operation. To be completely accurate, the cost of the circuit should include some measure of the circuit complexity."
"A most significant turning point in the history of telephone transmission occurred shortly before 1920 with the introduction of carrier equipment as a means of multiplying the capacity of open-wire line facilities. The 20-year period between 1918 and 1938 witnessed the firm establishment of single-side-band techniques in telephone transmission through the C carrier and the development of the 12-channel J and K systems for open wire and cable, respectively. This was a period of rapid expansion of carrier applications to long-haul toll circuits and, by and large, a consolidation of carrier design for this realm of service. If the L system is included, which is essentially an expansion of the K, the equipment which supports the majority of long-haul toll transmissions is still of the J, K, or L type."
"This paper will consider theoretical limitations and capabilities of general types of asynchronous multiplexing systems for networks of the type shown in Fig. 1. The kth station of the ith channel of the network is Sik. All stations belonging to a channel are in communication with each other. The purpose of the multiplexing system is to provide this communication when stations of all channels use a common transmission medium in which signals and noise mix additively. Fig. 1 adequately describes a mobile communication system, for instance, in which the individual communication paths vary widely in direction and length."
"Increased use of ultrasonic energy in industrial applications has created a greater demand for ultrasonic frequency power supplies. Most of these power supplies are constructed with vacuum tubes as the conversion devices. However, power supplies, which are made with transistors operated as high-current switches,1 can be made higher in power conversion efficiency and more compact for the same power rating. Described in this paper will be the circuits which have been utilized in the generation of ultrasonic frequency power."
"A method has been developed and demonstrated to detect and locate reactor fuel element failures by means of primary coolant delayed neutron (DN) activity measurements. The initial development, done at the Knolls Atomic Power Laboratory,∗ applied to a high-temperature, pressurized, recirculating water-cooled reactor system. However, it can be applied to a variety of other types of reactor systems, including air-cooled types. By this method, the state of reactor fuel integrity can be continuously and simply monitored. The actual location of fuel element failures can also be determined; in some instances this location can be accomplished without the necessity of shutting down the reactor."
"The classical formula used to compute eddy-current losses in magnetic sheet steel is derived from Maxwell's field equations based on the conditions of constant permeability. This Condition of constant permeability is unfounded since in each cycle the permeability of modern materials will undergo changes of at least 1 to 100. Large differences between actual losses and the losses computed according to the classical formula have been noted. These differences could be attributed to the assumption of constant permeability. This paper attempts to determine approximate solutions for Maxwell's field equations under the condition of variable permeability that will lead to a modified formula for determining the eddy-current losses. Since rough approximations were used, final conclusions cannot be made. However, the results indicate that the error in the classical formula (the assumption of constant permeability) accounts for only a small part of the discrepancy between calculated and actual eddy-current losses. Experiments were conducted that confirmed the concept of changing flux distribution. These experiments also indicated that other mathematical approaches could be used for more accurate approximations."
"This paper is the third in a series on matrix algebra applied to logical design. Notation, terminology and definitions are uniform throughout the series. The content of the previous parts, “Matrix Analysis of Logical Nets”1 and “Matrix Synthesis of Highspeed Logic,”2 is prerequisite. The object of this paper is to derive matrix operations similar to function matrices for sequential circuits describing the behavior in the time domain, and to introduce appropriate algebraic operations. The approach, believed to be novel, permits the computation of the output sequence for a given input sequence applied to a sequential circuit and in its inversion, the computation of a function matrix required to produce a certain output sequence from a given input sequence."
"A new method for reducing logical problems of higher complexity based on matrix logic is presented. Sets of propositions related to a set of constraints are transformed into minimum form without iterative simplifications. The savings in design effort and hardware for the eventual circuit are demonstrated in a reference problem."
"Symmetric logical functions are classified in ordinary and threshold function. The first class is defined as being operative for only k of p inputs being active. Threshold functions are operative for at least k of p inputs. Ordinary symmetric and threshold functions are mutually related and one class may generate functions of the other class. Transistor circuits are already extensively used to perform threshold functions in form of resistor-coupled nonlinear amplifiers. Recently a new logical element has been conceived which performs ordinary symmetric logic. To evaluate the merits of these logical elements efficiently a method has been developed which may be adapted to logical design by computer routines. Solution of problems involving up to ten variables is feasible without the aid of computers."
"Engineers do not like problems in units and dimensions if the discussion of them is likely to upset the concepts they learned in school. They usually shrug off such matters as “metaphysical.” Unfortunately, there are enough theoretically minded scientists and engineers who insist on thinking and talking about such things to produce a continuing situation well represented by an old proverb: Quot capita, tot sententiae (From many heads, many opinions)."
"Much has been written on the subject of microwave, including theoretical considerations, characteristics, design of components, practical systems, experience, etc. Now that microwave systems have been in use for a period of years, it would seem of value to reappraise the situation from the viewpoint of the power system operator and engineer and to determine just what the true microwave characteristics are; to discuss relative costs, applications, reliability, and maintenance problems: in general, to consider how microwave can properly take its place to help carry the burden of system expansion. With such a purpose in mind the author has set down as briefly as possible those factors which have been observed in operating systems. Technical details have already been competently covered by such articles as those in the list of references; in this paper comments are confined to observed results and how well they substantiate theory."
"Experimental work by users and manufacturers of electric equipment alike, has disclosed the need for an entirely new concept of insulation classification and evaluation. It is found that insulations should be classified as systems as well as materials. The manner in which the materials are applied and processed is of as equal an importance as the basic materials used. The electrical industry, working through the AIEE, developed the concept of functional evaluation of insulation systems. This concept appears in AIEE No. 1, published in June 1957.1"
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the title page of this issue of the periodical."
"The study of d-c corona discharge over a period of many years has resulted in a considerable body of literature on the subject. However, relatively little has been reported on corona properties over extended temperature ranges. At least two experimental studies have been published, both using coaxial cylindrical geometry. The first, by Koller and Fremont,1 treats negative corona at temperatures to 1,400 R (degrees Rankin) and pressures to 5 atmospheres. The second, by Thomas and Wong,2 treats both positive and negative corona at temperatures to 2,000 R and pressures to 8 atmospheres."
"Conventional diode switching circuits show a significant decline in performance and efficiency as their speed of operation is increased. Faster rise and fall times require correspondingly-greater peak currents to charge and discharge circuit capacitance, at the cost of increased static power dissipation, drive requirements, and noise. These peak currents are in demand for only a brief initial and final fraction of the total signaltime duration and might ideally be gated by a 2-step switch having a low resistance during these brief time intervals, with a much greater resistance for the remainder of the signal duration. The semiconductor diode approximates this function when rapidly switched in a low impedance circuit immediately following forward conduction. This is due to the well-known hole-storage effect, a property of diodes generally considered detrimental for rapid switching operations. However, it will be shown that hole storage may also serve as the design basis for a new type of diode-switching circuit, henceforth referred to as back-transient diode logic (BTDL), which exhibits good efficiency, low noise, and excellent compatibility with vacuum tubes or transistors at switching speeds as high as 30 mp (megapulses) per second."
"Under conditions of excessive current or voltage overload a rectifier will exhibit some form of breakdown. Under practical conditions, breakdown is normally destructive although, with proper safeguards, it may be controlled. A voltage-induced electric breakdown is the type most commonly cited in theory, while in practice a considerable contribution from thermal effects is observed. Selenium rectifiers frequently exhibit the property of recovering from an overvoltage breakdown. The symptoms in this case range from the appearance of minor sparking and fumes of selenium to a very generous arc blowing a cavity in one of the cells. Two physical mechanisms of recovery are apparent; in one, small areas of separation occur between the selenium and the counter-electrode, without necessarily rupturing the latter; in the other, greater burnouts involve craters reaching down to the baseplate, with walls of insulating vitreous selenium, and all counter-electrode removed from the immediate vicinity."
"A static analysis of the thermoelectric generator is necessary in order to specify the electrical loading condition for maximum energy conversion efficiency and to determine the corresponding efficiency. Ioffe has done this for the simple case of a single p-n junction thermocouple, and his analysis has been extended to include the effect of temperature dependent parameters by Borrego, Lyden, and Blair.1,2 Harman has considered a cascade generator and has shown how its design can be optimized.3"
"With the emphasis today upon extended environmental conditions for electronic equipment used in military aircraft and guided missiles, there is a pressing need for the simultaneous testing of such equipment under two or more of these extreme environments. This paper describes a program completed by the General Electric Company covering the testing of spark gaps in the Brookhaven National Laboratory's graphic reactor. It consisted of a 2-week in-pile exposure designed to investigate the voltage breakdown strength of air at various pressures in the presence of intense nuclear radiation of the following approximate levels: Fast flux: 1 × 1011 fast neutrons per cm2-sec (centimeter2-seconds) Thermal flux: 2 × 1012 thermal neutrons per cm2-sec Gamma flux: 1 × 1012 gamma photons per cm-sec2"
"Stable d-c amplification is required in many engineering applications. In the past, vacuum-tube circuits have been developed which meet most low drift requirements by utilizing differential amplification, chopper, and chopper stabilization techniques. Transistors offer many inherent advantages such as small size, long life, no filament power, low power dissipation and good reliability, but they in turn present new problems in design and techniques. Since the major source of drift in tube d-c amplifiers is filament power variations, the transistor might seem to have inherent advantages concerning drift. However, the variations of transistor parameters with temperature presents as formidable a problem as vacuum-tube filaments. Stable d-c amplifiers using transistors can be designed and constructed by modifying the basic techniques used in vacuum-tube circuits."
"The causes of instability of inductively loaded, center-tap magnetic amplifiers, and the remedies for this instability are well known.1–4 If such a stabilized magnetic amplifier is used to energize the field of an electric machine, such as the shunt field of a d-c generator, the armature voltage of this machine will increase or decrease smoothly with the control voltage of the magnetic amplifier. Since the load current of the magnetic amplifier is unidirectional, the armature voltage of the d-c generator will also be unidirectional. However, in many closed-loop control systems it is necessary to obtain duodirectional out-put of the d-c geneator. In this case the d-c generator will be equipped with two shunt fields; each shunt field is connected to a magnetic amplifier with such polarity that the magnetomotive forces produced by the two shunt fields are subtractive. Then, if the first magnetic amplifier is controlled “full on” and the second magnetic amplifier is controlled “full off,” the armature of the d-c generator develops a voltage of one polarity, and if the the control to the magnetic amplifiers is reversed, the armature voltage of the d-c generator is also reversed. One may expect, furthermore, that if each magnetic amplifier is turned “one half on,” the net magnetomotive force will be zero, and, hence, that the armature voltage of the d-c generator will also be zero; one may also expect that for a gradual increase of control current of one amplifier, and a similar gradual decrease of control current of the other amplifier, the armature voltage of the d-c generator will show a gradual change. The last two expectations, however, are not likely to be fulfilled. Instead, a minute change of the magnetic amplifier control currents will cause a sudden jump of armature voltage from perhaps +50% to −50% (or vice versa) of rated d-c generator armature voltage, and intermediate values of armature voltage will not be obtainable. This instability renders almost useless this otherwise inviting control scheme. It is suspected immediately that magnetic amplifiers are prone to produce instabilities when feeding inductive loads, such as the field of the d-c generator. However, as soon as one of the two magnetic amplifiers is disconnected from its generator field, the other will produce perfect (unidirectional) control of the d-c generator, and vice versa. Hence the instability is of a different nature than suspected."
"In many rectifier applications means must be provided to vary the output voltage. In some cases discrete control is permissible while in others the output must be continuously variable. A common method of providing the latter is to employ a saturable-core reactor in series with the primary of the rectifier transformer."
"The number of computing laboratories using both, analog and digital computers is greatly increasing. Each type of computer is normally operated independently of the other, receiving the computing task for which it is better suited. It is generally agreed that neither type of computer is ideal for solving all classes of problems. Analog computers, for example, are widely used for the simulation of physical systems; digital computers, on the other hand, are used extensively for data analysis and for the solution of very complex physical and mathematical problems. It is becoming increasingly evident that there would be many advantages to having a computer available which is part analog and part digital. For example, such a computer would make it possible to simulate sampled-data control systems more realistically. Also some of the disadvantages of one type of computer could be overcome by the advantages of the other."
"The pulse transformer described in this paper is a specialized current-driven device that functions as a precision component in large-scale ferrite-core memories, and also as a switching device in computer logic. Typical transformer characteristics do not satisfy the exacting demands of computer applications. Greater precision in specifying and measuring these components is required along with closer tolerances."
"The flow of steady electric currents in the interior of any medium is governed by three laws 1. Poisson's law which essentially relates space charge to potential. 2. Conservation of charge. 3. A law of the type of Ohm's law connecting current flow and potential gradient. In most solid and liquid conductors of technical interest, Poisson's law can be satisfactorily approximated by the simpler equation of Laplace, and Ohm's law applies with the conductivity taken as constant. In gases, however, these simplifications cannot be made and hence the problem of calculating such electrical parameters as the current-voltage relationship, field strength, and charge density is much more difficult."
"The voltage-current relation for 4-layer diodes has been described in the literature and is characterized by regions of high and low positive resistance separated by a region of negative resistance.1,2 The transition between high positive resistance and negative resistance occurs at a potential designated as the breakover or firing potential, Vb. This breakover potential is normally specified in terms of static (d-c) or low-frequency sinusoidal measurements but is, however, a variable dependent on the waveform of the applied voltage. The purpose of this paper is to present experimental data on the variation of breakover potential for various types of applied voltage waveforms, and to give a qualitative explanation of this variation in terms of the breakover process of the 4-layer diode."
"The problem of determining the minimum power that has to be dissipated by a transistor flip-flop covering a set of given specifications is one of general interest. Among the various significant considerations which determine the power level are: output power requirements, stability, temperature variations, and required speed of operation. The following considerations deal mainly with the problems of speed limitations at various power dissipation levels. The investigated circuits employ silicon devices to insure good temperature stability and are based upon a design which offers good stability and a constant output voltage. The required increase in power level which is necessary for a desired increase in output voltage is also discussed."
"In addition to offering public telegram services over transatlantic facilities, cable and radio carriers today offer various forms of temporary, switched teleprinter interconnections between correspondents, upon request of a calling party, in a manner and through means characteristic of long-distance telephone calls. Regardless of forms of the national teleprinter exchanges involved, the international portion of the haul is usually between manual boards at central offices. The placement of a specific call over a particular idle two-way trunk among those at the moment available is controlled by concerted action of the two operators guided by information exchanged over a parallel order circuit or “bid channel” connecting them."
"The number of microwave systems that may be used on a particular frequency assignment in a given area is determined by the mutual interference between the systems. The Bell System is particularly conscious of this problem because of its extensive use of broadband microwave systems."
"There are many areas of the world where the service which can be provided by the scatter link is needed, but cannot be justified economically. One approach toward reducing costs, suggested here, is to investigate the improvements achieved through optimizing system-design parameters."
"The popular notion that transistors will undoubtedly replace vacuum tubes in the near future has been widely publicized partly because of the natural enthusiasm and optimism of the many new firms starting into the business of designing and manufacturing semiconductor devices. There is, of course, no doubt that transistors will take over some of the application areas previously served by tubes, and that there will be some areas where either tubes or transistors will serve equally well, but there are many fields where tubes are and will continue to be superior. The advantages and disadvantages of each device, under the wide variety of operating conditions and circuit requirements, should govern the choice for a particular application, and the following discussion is intended to bring out those which are pertinent to such an analysis."
"The empretron is a new mercury pool arc tube for switching applications. The arc between the mercury pool cathode and the main anode is initiated by a vacuum spark. The spark discharge occurs between two continuously replenishable electrodes, one being an electrode partly immersed in the mercury pool and the other, the starter electrode, a mercury reservoir supported above the mercury pool. Starting is accomplished by applying a high-voltage pulse to the starter electrode. The resulting spark discharge develops into an arc between the cathode and the main anode. The minimum energy necessary for arc initiation, 10–3 to 10-2 joules per start, is determined by the stray capacitance between the starter electrode and the mercury pool. Operation at repetition rates up to 5,000 cps (cycles per second) has been demonstrated. This is about one order of magnitude higher than the upper limit of 400 cps for the conventional ignitron."
"A probe method has been devised for measuring potentials in d-c corona fields which are uniform for a short distance in one direction. In unipolar corona, a probe supported by perfect insulators assumes a potential sufficiently above the space so that no more ions can reach the probe. For a cylindrical probe with its axis along an equipotential, this excess or “error potential” is proportional to the diameter of the cylinder. To minimize this error a fine wire is used as the probe. A frame is designed which both supports the wire and shields it from fields other than the field being measured. The fine wire is electrically connected to an electrostatic voltmeter, and the frame to a source of variable potential. A potential is measured by slowly increasing the potential of the frame and recording both frame and wire potential. Under proper conditions, the space potential is the point where wire and frame potentials are equal."
"The unblocking of the self-saturating gate rectifier of the reresetting core in magnetic-amplifier circuits is a well-known phenomenon. Circuit behavior during this unblocked period, a condition sometimes called gate limited reset, may result in appreciably different response times and different gains than would otherwise be expected. The purpose of this paper is to derive analytic predictions of the occurrence of this phenomenon which will be useful in the analysis and design of self-saturating magnetic amplifiers."
"In a static d-c to a-c converter employing a saturating transformer with rectangular-hysteresis-loop core material in conjunction with two switching transistors (magnetic-coupled multivibrators), the oscillation frequency is linearly proportional to the d-c supply voltage. This fact is significant with regard to telemetering-transducer applications. However, the linear relation between d-c input voltage and frequency of the square-wave output voltage is quite unfavorable in those cases, e.g., design of test circuits for magnetic amplifiers, where it is necessary to vary the oscillation frequency of the magnetic-coupled multivibrator independently, without changing magnitude of the supply voltage."
"Sparkover between clean electrodes has been investigated extensively but it is found that sparkover between contaminated electrodes exhibits very different results. With corona from a clean metal point to a plane, sparkover occurs at a considerably lower voltage if the point is positive.1 Because of this, it is frequently assumed that positive corona will always result in the lowest sparkover voltage. A few experiments with contaminated electrodes show that sparkover is a complicated phenomenon and that negative corona does not always result in a higher sparkover voltage."
"The design of new electronic computers has become such a complex task that manual methods are no longer adequate. To help design new series of data processing machines now under development, International Business Machines Corporation (IBM) is using a system of computer programs written for the 704 and 705 data processing machines. Referred to as the “design mechanization” programs, these computer programs eliminate a large amount of detail work for the design engineer."
"In recent times there has been considerable renewed interest in the use of static magnetic cores to produce power at a multiple of the frequency of a power source. Generally in these circuits, nonlinear magnetic reactors are connected in a symmetrical multiphase fashion, using the cores to produce harmonics and using symmetrical interphase connections to isolate desired groups of harmonics without the use of filters. In previous studies1,2,3 several circuits of this type have been evaluated showing their characteristics when used either as a power supply or as a combined converter and power amplifier."
"Dependence of the locking range of an oscillator on the character of the stabilizing nonlinearity is studied in this paper and it is shown that a lower order nonlinearity provides a wider range."
"Some interesting properties of negative pulse corona have been noted by several investigators.1,2 Among these properties are sparkover voltages and pulse currents considerably above d-c values. Such properties are desirable for those applications, such as electrostatic precipitation, where maximum corona loss may be sought. A more detailed study of negative pulse corona is therefore pertinent."
"High transient voltages may be developed in equipment associated with gas conduction tubes when there is a sudden cessation or change in the magnitude of the current that is being conducted through the tube. The conditions for the occurrence of this phenomenon have received considerable attention from those working in the field of gas conduction tubes as well as those who have applied such devices. Three conditions of operation of gas conduction devices have been recognized as contributing or being capable of creating the rapid rate of current change that is necessary to generate the high voltages observed: 1. cathode-spot extinction, 2. arc extinction, or gas “starvation” as it is sometimes called, and 3. the pinch effect. The pinch effect occurs when the current through the discharge reaches a sufficient magnitude to cause the conduction electrons to be pressed into a tight spiral because of the force of the self-induced magnetic field on the electron trajectory. This phenomenon is receiving considerable attention in the controlled thermal nuclear work that is currently being undertaken. Of the three, the pinch effect has not been demonstrated to be a contributing factor in the generation of transient voltages under normal conditions of operation and will not be considered further in this paper."
"The 1945 paper by Brillouin1 presented an exact solution to the problem of space charge flow of electrons in a magnetic field. As is well known, this solution demonstrates the possibility of an electron beam of cylindrical or rectangular cross section in which the repelling forces due to the space charge are exactly balanced by the magnetic field forces so that the beam maintains its shape for an indefinite length. The many electron tubes which have been designed to make use of this type of flow as well as the large number of research papers published on problems associated with Brillouin flow constitutes substantial evidence of the impact on the electron tube industry of the Brillouin paper."
"To recall the undergraduate education of the writer's generation is to see evidence that engineering education was based on the belief that the engineering curriculum of that period would serve him throughout most of his professional lifetime. Many of the professors teaching at that time had a firm idea of what their students needed to know in order to engage in careers in the professional world. This seemed appropriate, for these professors had in no small degree conceived most of the world of electrical technology of about that era. It looked sophisticated and enduring. They accepted the principle of a curriculum largely based on contemporary practice, and assumed that the engineering profession would merely build the mechanisms of society, often to a conventional pattern, and keep them running. This doctrine stemmed from the assumption that technology would not change appreciably during an engineer's professional career."
"In the fall of 1957 the Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) began preliminary work toward increasing the number of telemeter readings by use of existing telemeter circuits with a minimum of modifications and additions. The additional channels were used to provide the power-system dispatchers with data that were normally received by telephone. The initial objective was to transmit the load readings of five hydroelectric plants and their total from the Nashville Load Dispatching Office to the Chattanooga Load Dispatching Office. High-speed data transmission was not a requirement in this case, since no automatic controls were involved and the readings were to be used for informative purposes. In view of the foregoing requirement, studies indicated that distant readings could be transmitted to a remote central location, from which time-division multiplexing telemetering equipment could be employed for data transmission, thus reducing the cost of communication channel facilities. Investigations indicated that no suitable equipment was available for this purpose that would work with existing facilities and that would provide the necessary functions. TVA devised experimental equipment to transmit six hydro plant readings over one impulse channel from the Nashville Load Dispatching Office to the Chattanooga Load Dispatching Office. Later the hydro plant readings were replaced by six substation load readings that are used in a computer for system economic loading purposes. This equipment has operated over a 1-tone channel of a microwave system about 130 miles in length for more than 1 1/2 years and the operation has been satisfactory."
"The increasing number of power loads in the 100-mw (megawatt) and higher ranges with the attendant problems of metering and totalizing several supply sources has disclosed the inability of much of the present impulse-operated metering equipment to render the dependable, accurate, and maintenance-free service required."
"During the past decade, the requirements for null-balance instruments have greatly changed. Dynamic testing applications have increased the need for accurate, high-speed measuring devices. Specifications such as a span of 50 millivolts and full-scale response time of 5 seconds are supplemented with requirements for a span of 1.0 millivolt and a full-scale response time of less than 0.5 second. Such instruments are important in the fields of rocket or jet engine testing, wind tunnel measurements, automatic machine tool positioning control, and analog-to-digital readout systems using high-speed card punch or print-out operations."
"Those who have been associated with the industry during recent years have witnessed a most progressive expansion and improvement of electric power generation and distribution facilities. This growth has been accompanied and perhaps preceded in many instances, by improvements in instrumentation techniques and equipment. The recorder described here has capabilities which exceed those of similar recorders in general use. It provides a means of recording waveforms which exist in a power system immediately prior to, during, and after the occurrence of a fault or other disturbance without continuous consumption of photographic recording medium. This instrument will record current and voltage waveforms, or other waveforms if desired, as long as required after the disturbance occurs."
"About 6 years ago Pennsylvania Railroad found that an improvement in the method of handling ticket sales and reservations was necessary in order to decrease the time and effort required to process ticket sales. In the following years, they designed and built new ticket facilities at Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, Pa., experimenting with new ideas and new equipment until they had a system operating which would meet the transportation demands of these cities. In 1954, they began planning a new ticket facility for Pennsylvania Railroad Station in New York City, one of the largest railroad passenger terminals in the world, handling nearly a half-million passengers daily. This made necessary a system utilizing methods which were more efficient than those previously used in Pittsburgh or Philadelphia. After considerable study of the performance and cost of several systems, closed circuit TV (television) was decided on to handle the storage and distribution of the vast amount of information necessary for the sale and reservation of space on Pennsylvania Railroad trains."
"A new field telephone has been designed for use with the 4-wire electronic switchboards now being developed for the U.S. Army Signal Corps. This local battery instrument incorporates new features in systems applications. All telephone signalling to and from the switchboard is accomplished on a voice frequency basis, thereby providing compatibility with radio and wire carrier. The digit tone signalling plan is readily adaptable to the use of a key-type selector set. The latter affords more rapid digit setup speeds than are possible with the use of the conventional rotary dial. The introduction of a 4-page wire system eliminates critical hybriding in the telephone as well as throughout the switching centers."
"The delay simulator is a test instrument which produces delay as a function of frequency in the voice frequency range: 300-3,300 cps (cycles per second). Its primary function is to simulate the delay distortion of Bell System transmission facilities, including open wire, loaded cable, and carrier systems. This is accomplished by combining four variable delay characteristics. The wide variety of delay characteristics thus obtainable may be useful for testing actual data transmission systems or any other waveforms."
"The redstone arsenal at Huntsville, Alabama, is now pioneering in fields other than missile development. To illustrate this fact, the U. S. Army has had in operation for slightly over a year a unique and extensive educational TV (television) network. This network, with its associated administration, resembles very closely a nationwide broadcasting studio."
"There is a continuing practical need for antennas which radiate a pattern which is omnidirectional in azimuth, but with a specified shape in the vertical direction. One example is that of a broadcast station, where the radiated power should be concentrated along the ground. Conventional solutions of this problem make use of an array of colinear elements, or of sectionalized elements, or of top-loaded antennas. The height of the antenna is often of the order of a half-wavelength. Page1 proposed that a circular array be used for this purpose, and showed that an array of several radiators distributed about the circumference of a circle, and with an element at the center, could be made to radiate an omnidirectional pattern in azimuth, with a null at any prescribed vertical angle. In the antenna described by Page all of the elements are driven, which entails complicated matching and phasing networks. It is the purpose of this paper to describe an antenna, similar in geometry to that of Page, in which only the center element is driven. The remaining elements are excited by mutual coupling from the center element, and the desired null in the vertical pattern can be controlled either by varying the length of the parasites, or by inserting a tuning reactance at the center of the parasites."
"A new systematic organization of the field of digital data processing is proposed. This is motivated by recent extensive developments in this area. The subgroups - data acquisition, data handling, data evaluation, and data display - are distinguished, and defined; and it is shown that most problems of industrial or commercial data processing belong to the group of data handling. Data-handling problems in the past have been mostly solved by general purpose computers or systems based on computer technology. A new approach, based on basic functions of data handling is proposed. In the field of computing, basic functions are: add, subtract, multiply, and divide. In the field of circuit logic, basic functions are: and, or, not, memory, and time. The proposed basic functions for data handling are: position-selection, value-comparison, switching, memory, control, and translation. Similar to proceedings in computer technology or circuit logic, symbols are proposed for the basic data handling functions. These symbols allow a block diagram approach as well as eventually a new type of algebra in solving data handling problems. The use of these symbols is demonstrated in some practical examples. The practical building blocks for a data handling system based on the forementioned functions are discussed. To each of the functions corresponds one or a group of building blocks as selector, comparator, buffer, switch, and control unit. The advantages of this system are briefly discussed. It seems possible to combine the advantages of flexibility and ease of modification in general purpose machines with the advantages of simplicity and efficiency in special purpose equipment through a building block design of the proposed system."
"A new precision voltage reference for use in industrial null-balancing recorders is described. The reference employs a Zener diode as the voltage element and replaces the conventional dry cell, standard cell, and standardizing mechanism used in most recorders. The reference is currently being supplied as standard equipment in the new General Electric strip chart recorder."
"Thermal voltage converters, each consisting of a resistor in series with a thermoelement in a coaxial line, have been developed for measurements of rms voltages of 1 to 200 volts at frequencies from 3 cps (cycles per second) to 30 mc (megacycles). An accuracy of 0.1% or better may be obtained by a-c-d-c transfer techniques up to at least 10 mc and 0.2% at 30 mc."
"The use of a d-c series-wound motor, series-wound motor brake, and power-type overhoist limit switch for the hoist drive of an otherwise all a-c powered crane is highly desirable. Time proven safety and simplicity of d-c dynamic lowering hoist systems can now be further improved in performance, and better motor stability is possible when d-c power is made available through metallic plate rectifiers."
"The rapid expansion of suburban and small urban communities has created such a demand for increased communication facilities that the telephone companies are hard pressed to supply the requirements. They find themselves required to supply not only house phones, business phones, etc., but new subscriber lines, new extended area trunks, and new toll trunks in order to handle the increased load."
"This paper describes the requirements, the circuits, and the design philosophy of a translator1 developed in connection with experimental work on telephone and data-switching systems. The requirements called for a flexible translator of large capacity, with a nonvolatile memory, and for operation at speeds compatible with the present-day automatic telephone and telegraph switching systems. Moreover, the common translator must be made accessible to a large number of circuits which require translation service."
"Communication systems using orthogonal time functions for the transmission of information over radio links are characterized by the following properties: 1. The same amount of information may be transmitted per unit (pu) bandwidth and pu time with double-sideband modulation as with single-sideband modulation. 2. No phase lock between the carriers produced at the transmitter and at the receiver is necessary for detection by correlation. Hence, communication is less affected by rapid phase changes of the carrier than in systems requiring phase lock. 3. It is possible to operate under conditions of large Doppler shift without changing the frequency of the carrier produced at the receiver, provided the Doppler shift varies sufficiently slowly."
"Data transmission generally can use with economy portions of the extensive common carrier plant set up for telephony. However, this plant has been largely equalized for amplitude response and not for phase, because of the insensitivity of the ear to phase distortion."
"The evolution of electromechanical switching systems shows a trend toward specialization of their functional elements and tends to their separation into two categories: 1. Those elements the function of which is to establish a connection between the calling and the called subscriber; they constitute the speech circuit. 2. Those elements the function of which is to give the instructions necessary for the operation of this circuit; they constitute the control circuit."
"The accelerating use of transmission facilities for data transmission requires an increased knowledge and control of phase characteristics of the facilities and associated networks. These are commonly controlled by specification of a related quantity designated as envelope delay. Specifications have been encountered calling for control or equalization of a switching link to limits of ± 10-μsec (microsecond) envelope delay over a frequency range of 1,000 to 2,600 cps (cycles per second). Such requirements call for measuring equipment capable of accurately and rapidly measuring envelope delay."
"With the increasing use of radio relay systems to transmit a large variety of time and frequency division information signals, noise and signal distortions that tend to reduce the information-carrying capacity of such systems take on added importance. In any multiplex system for either speech or data-type signals, noise produced by nonlinear elements carrying the active channels generally limits the maximum signal-to-noise ratio that can be obtained. Nonlinearities in baseband amplifiers, frequency modulation generators, discriminators, and distortions of the delay characteristic are the principal contributors of this modulation noise. Thermal or first circuit noise in any part of the radio system can be readily calculated. The following discussion is concerned primarily with the measurement, evaluation, and correction of delay distortion, klystron pulling effects, and the determination of optimum system loading. A number of references are included to assist in a further study of the subject.1¯7"
"In a digital communication system each digit of a character may be represented by one function of an orthogonal set of functions. This function is multiplied by + 1 or - 1 if binary digits are being used. All functions of the character are added and transmitted in parallel. This sum of functions is correlated in the receiver with each function of the orthogonal set and voltages of amplitude + 1 or - 1 are obtained. No interference between the digits of a character occurs if the signal is not band limited. The crosstalk between the digits because of band limitation is computed for a system of orthogonal sine and cosine functions. The results show that a binary Teletype system transmitting 60 words per minute can be operated with about 25 cps (cycles per second) bandwidth. This figure decreases to the theoretical minimum of 15 cps per channel for a multichannel system. Tests of experimental equipment have shown very good agreement with the theory."
"The teaching of field theory is often enriched by citing analogies among the various potential fields: heat flow fields, fluid flow fields, current flow fields, electric fields, magnetic fields, etc. Thus, the magnetic analog is old in theory. However, it appears that it has not heretofore been developed into a fully useful device."
"A wide variety of electron tubes is now available to satisfy the needs of almost every application, but new types are still appearing as the field of electronics continues to enlarge. Also available are many kinds of semiconductor devices, although they are not as numerous as the types of electron tubes. With such a large range of operating characteristics available in both classes of electron devices, a designer of electronic equipment often is obliged to consider both types and make a choice of either an electron tube or a semiconductor device. The proper selection may not be immediately apparent, although each kind of electron device has a number of distinctive characteristics which can serve as aids in arriving at a reasonable decision."
"The magnetic second-harmonic modulator has become a popular device for the detection and amplification of low-level d-c signals. The object of the work described in this paper is to provide analytical expressions of the operation of the magnetic second-harmonic modulator which will serve as a basis for the design of this type of device and the prediction of its performance."
"It has long been known that when a highly unsymmetrical (Imin ≠Imax) current magnetizes a closed iron core in an inductor or transformer, the optimum design includes an air gap in the core to reduce saturation. The presence of the air gap has two opposing effects: 1. it increases the reluctance of the core to both the biasing d-c magnetization and the incremental a-c magnetization; 2. the shift of magnetic operating point due to effect 1 reduces the reluctance of the iron to the incremental magnetization. The result of these two opposing effects is that as an air gap is increased from zero length in an iron core with unsymmetrical magnetization, the inductance of a coil linking the core first increases as the second effect is dominant and then a maximum is reached, after which the inductance decreases as the first effect is dominant."
"Inductors biased with permanent magnet slabs and their analysis have been discussed in Part I of this report.1 The design of such devices is discussed here. It is desirable that a method of design proceed from the specified electrical characteristics directly to the physical dimensions of the inductor without the use of trial-and-error methods."
"Optimum performance of the multivariable continuous process under transient conditions is considered. A generalized performance criterion is formulated in terms of the cost of operation. Assuming that the essential process behavior is known and that the major disturbance variables may be measured, the necessary conditions for minimum cost of operation are derived by applying calculus of variations in conjunction with the Lagrange multiplers technique. In certain typical cases of process behavior and cost criteria, the resulting necessary conditions reduce to a form which will yield an analytical solution. In particular, by certain approximations of the system behavior in the vicinity of an operating point, the necessary condition for optimum performance is expressed in terms of an inhomogenous Wiener-Hopf integral equation of the second kind and the solution is obtained by spectral factorization. In general, the conditions to be satisfied for minimum cost of operation appear as a set of nonlinear integral equations. A method for handling the general case is suggested."
"The problem discussed is the optimum design of cylindrical holding electromagnets consisting of a ferromagnetic core, with stationary and movable portions, interlinking a coil of wire. These electromagnets are required to hold a switch or contact assembly in a given position as long as power is applied and to release it when power is removed. The electromagnet is not required to pull in the contact assembly; this is done by other means. It is desirable for the design method to proceed from the specified mechanical and electrical characteristics directly to the physical dimensions of the magnet without the use of trial-and-error methods."
"The charges left on the surface of solid insulating materials which have been subjected to an electrical discharge were first discovered by Lichtenberg when he observed the peculiar formation of resin dust on the surface of a resin sheet which had been exposed to discharges.1"
"The use of computers in designing transformers for electric power transmission has been described previously.1 For such transformers the design calculations are lengthy and may take many hours of engineering time. A large-scale computer requires only a few minutes to do the same work and is therefore of immense and obvious benefit. In contrast, small electronic transformer designs are simple, but a great many designs of these are used. To reap any advantage, computer design of electronic transformers must be rapid and easy, and adapted to the several kinds encountered in practice. This paper describes the procedures, results, and benefits pertaining to the application of digital computers to the design of electronic transformers."
"The synthesis of linear filters with symmetrical (even-function) or anti-symmetrical (odd-function) impulse responses has both theoretical interest and practical value. Such filters which can be called “time-symmetric” or “time-antisymmetric,” following the terminology of Storey and Grierson,1 are characterized by transfer functions which are purely real or purely imaginary. Alternate names, proposed and employed in this paper, are real or imaginary filters. Applications of real or imaginary filters include compensating systems which must have no phase distortion, such as those often used in the field of acoustics and in the compensation of signals generated by picture scanning devices.2,3"
"The sodium-cooled nuclear power reactor, known as the sodium reactor experiment (SRE), is operated by Atomics International, a division of North American Aviation, Inc., for the Atomic Energy Commission. The reactor is located in the Santa Susana Mountains near Los Angeles, Calif. The design features of this reactor have been outlined by Siegel.1"
"This paper is intended to introduce the methods and literature of difference equations to engineers who are unaquainted with them or their wide applicability and power."
"Within the last DECADE digital computation has evolved from the scientific computer with simple input-output devices to the present-day-electronic data processors with their myriad of peripheral devices. This development is continuing with the addition of facilities to provide intercommunication between the central processor and remote points. Such a device has been developed by Honeywell for use with the DATA matic 1000 System."
"Conventional electromagnetic contact-drive systems suffer from the disadvantage that resonant oscillation cannot be obtained, and this is shown in the analysis included. A scheme which overcomes this defect by the use of a permanent magnet and a tuned drive circuit is described. The drive power efficiency is shown to be greatly increased or alternatively for a given power input greater amplitudes of oscillation are obtained."
"THE GREAT EXPANSION in the nuclear reactor field places increased emphasis on the problem of reactor control. The complexity of a nuclear reactor installation suggests the use of digital computation in the over-all power-plant control system. The chief advantages to be gained from the use of a digital system would be a sizable increase in the flexibility of the programing of the control system and an increase in the accuracy of the computations."
"THE METHODS of analysis and synthesis of linear feedback control systems have now reached such a state of perfection that the design of a system to meet any set of performance specifications should be a fairly simple matter. Unfortunately no practical system can ever be completely linear, and therefore the theory developed for linear systems applies only approximately to practical systems."
"The theory of Posicast control,1‾3 by using a delayed step or steps, permits deadbeat step response from a very lightly damped system. The original development deals primarily with second-order systems, proposes a delay line technique for application of the second step, notes that use of this technique leaves the basic system underdamped, then proposes use of the delay line in a feedback path to damp load disturbances, and finally proposes the use of a tapped delay line for higher-order systems."
"DESIGN considerations and evaluations are described for a high-temperature pulse preamplifier which can amplify low-level fission-chamber pulses near the source. The preamplifier can withstand the combined environmental conditions of"
"WHEN THE STATE of a linear system is changed by the application of a forcing function r(t), the change occurring during a time interval may be determined approximately by considering only the initial conditions and the total impulse"
"THE PERFORMANCE of electrical connections at high altitudes has been reasonably well explored in recent years up to approximately 65,000 feet, which has been sufficient for most electrical purposes in connection with aircraft. However, the data are no longer adequate due to the extreme altitude requirements for present flight vehicles."
"NUCLEAR RADIATION and high temperature encountered near an operating atomic reactor reduce the lifetime of electronic control equipment. Conventional equipment acceptable for applications throughout industry cannot, in most cases, survive in the environment found in a nuclear reactor. Obviously then, to provide reliable reactor controls for long-term service, more reliable components that can withstand the influence of radiation and high temperatures need to be found."
"ELECTRIC POWER first became common on shipboard around the turn of the century. At that time it was solely for lighting, and the rating of the plants was, of course, very small. Since that time, and particularly within the last several decades, the growth of shipboard electric plants has been extremely rapid."
"FOR MANY YEARS there has been a great deal of discussion and interest expressed concerning the possibility of grounding the neutral of marine electric systems. It is the purpose of this paper to consider the numerous theoretical and practical considerations accumulated over the years with regard to industrial and electrical utility plants1‾15 from the viewpoint that the ungrounded system is superior. In addition to a review of the literature, some field test work has been performed."
"THE EFFECT of dirt on the life and general performance of electric equipment has been the subject of previous papers and discussions. Dirt is not a unique phenomenon on traction equipment alone. Industrial installations have the same or similar problems. Mention need be made only of electrical installations in such places as cement factories, chemical plants, mines, etc., where the dirt probelm is also serious. However, what makes the traction field different is that the electric equipment is part of a moving vehicle, that it is for the most part perhaps the least accessible of all electrical installations, and that failures of electric equipment will generally stop the traction vehicle somewhere remote from help and replacement parts, and thereby tie up a transportation system. Hence, there arises the interest in and need for features to keep traction equipment clean and prevent breakdowns because of dirt contamination."
"ELECTRICAL operation of railroads is the most economical form of motive power known today. There are many signs that point to additional electrification in North America soon."
"THE ELECTRIC POWER requirements of advanced manned aircraft are such that 3-phase 400-cycle a-c electric power systems are used on many of the recently developed aircraft. Airborne equipment, such as radar and navigational aids, is of such a nature that the performance requirements for the a-c power systems are more stringent than those normally encountered for d-c power systems. If the limits for system voltage or frequency are exceeded as a result of a malfunction in one or more of the system components, some of the equipment supplied by the system, as well as the system components themselves, would be damaged. Such damage can be eliminated or minimized through proper isolation of the affected area of the system. This isolation, and thereby protection, is obtained through the use of supervisory panels which incorporate fault sensing, time delays, and appropriate relay circuitry. The stringent requirements plus the need for tolerance in normal operating conditions for a-c generators, regulators and constant-speed drives necessitates protection circuits which can sense an out-of-limits condition within ±1 or 2% and initiate proper isolation. This sensing accuracy must be maintained over temperature ranges of -55 to +120 C (degrees centigrade) up to 70,000 feet of altitude, and under other severe environmental conditions. To accomplish this end, circuits utilizing the latest circuit components and techniques must be employed."
"THE PRESENT accelerated program for space vehicles demands development of auxiliary power supplies which conserve weight and outlast conventional batteries. The solar radiation flux outside the earth's atmosphere is about 130 watts/ft2 (watts per square foot) at normal incidence. Utilization of this energy is within reach of present technology based on the following facts"
"AT ONE TIME a fairly extensive literature was compiled on the phenomenon then known as “radio noise.” 1‾3 At first this literature was almost exclusively concerned with what could be heard coming out of the head phones of a radio set that was not signal, and later on with the “grass” that grew on the radar picture. There was an intense flurry of interest in the problem at the latter part of World War II, because of the general introduction of very-high-frequency equipment. But once the problem had been brought down to its proper proportions and the interference eliminated, the whole question was dropped. Now, with the advent of solid-state devices and their susceptibility to destruction with transient impulses, and the increasing use of digital-type computers to which may transients look exactly like a “bit” of information, there is a revival of interest in the subject. It is hoped that there will be, at last, enough continuing effort to obtain interference suppression by design, instead of last-minute frenzied efforts with a pocketful of filters and capacitors. Perhaps the present changes of the earlier names to “radio-frequency interference” or “electromagnetic interference” will help.4‾8"
"RESULTS OF INVESTIGATIONS are generally expressed in one of two ways. The first is the “yes-no” type, i.e., a statement that a certain event did or did not occur. The second type expresses the results in numerical values."
"IN MODERN high-speed high-altitude aircraft, commutation and brush wear become critical problems in the exciters of synchronous a-c generators. To overcome these problems, brushless rotating-rectifier a-c generators have been developed.1,2 In this type of machine, the commutator and brushes are completely eliminated, along with their associated problems. The design engineer, however, is faced with a new problem. He must design an exciter which is an a-c generator loaded by a rotating rectifier feeding a highly inductive load: the main generator rotating field. The rectifier acts somewhat as a rotating switch, switching the load current from one phase to the other. The nonlinear load then presents design problems: What is the effect of this load on exciter armature reaction, terminal voltage, and power factor? The purpose of this paper is to answer this question. A method of calculation is outlined to convert a given d-c rectifier load to an equivalent a-c load. With the equivalent a-c load known, the generator designer can use conventional formulae to design an optimum exciter and regulator system for a given application."
"IN THE PROCESS of designing and developing an aircraft a-c electric power system, a state of development is reached where some of the components, due to the present state of the art and the steady-state specifications, have their designs essentially fixed. The analysis of an aircraft a-c electric power system presented in this paper illustrates how time, effort, and costs required to complete the development can be substantially reduced if proper system dynamic performance can be assured prior to the construction of the actual hardware."
"THE NATIONAL aeronautics and Space Administration requirements for the Delta Space Research Vehicle imposed conditions of accuracy, flexibility, and an extended period of operation never attained before by United States space vehicles. In order to meet these requirements a new flight controller had to be designed and manufactured. This new design included other salient features; such as: minimum weight and power requirements, a minimum number of relays, and a high degree of reliability. The flexibility in the design had to allow for interchangeability of components or subsystems with a minimum of time and effort due to changes in the flight sequence or trajectory that could occur shortly before the vehicle is launched."
"TO SELF-EXCITE and regulate a d-c generator, a device is needed which can vary the current supplied to the shunt field of the machine so that regulated voltage results over a wide range of speed and load. In addition, it must provide some means of load sharing when one generator and its regulator are paralleled with one or more identical systems. In 71 C (degrees centigrade) ambient this can be accomplished by a carbon-pile regulator or by a switching type of regulator using germanium transistors.1"
"HIGHER-PERFORMANCE aircraft and missiles place extreme requirements on electric power systems. These systems cannot be divided into components such as drive generator, or regulator, as has been done in the past; rather, they have to be treated as a whole or a system. This places new emphasis on the division between mechanical drive and electric components. This paper deals with this co-ordination problem and the effect of each component on the others."
"WITHIN the past few years there has been developed a new type of voltage-regulating and static-excitation system for a 40-kva (kilovolt-ampere) a-c aircraft generator. The system is unique in its manner of excitation control, and exhibits rather remarkable performance. This paper describes the system and its principle of operation, and presents performance data."
"WITH THE SCIENTIFIC advancement of the aircraft and missile fields, a need arises for power at high frequencies. High frequency power is needed in commercial and industrial fields as well; for example, in fluorescent lighting and ultrasonic cleaning. Presently available semiconductor devices can be used in the construction of completely static frequency conversion equipment, capable of power outputs of many kilowatts at frequencies as high as 25 kc."
"THE HISTORY of the paper industry and the history of paper machine drives is a story of continued progress; progress in improved performance, increased reliability, and operator convenience."
"A general gain expression for a multisampled-loop sampled-data system is proposed, and an extended table of systems (Table I) to which this gain expression has been applied is presented."
"AN INTERESTING SIMILARITY exists between the mechanical sampling and zero-order hold function of sampled-data systems, and the mathematical \"sampling\" which is characteristic of numerical methods of analysis. This paper describes an investigation into this similarity. The results are numerical methods of analysis principally adapted to the transient solution of nonlinear sampled-data control systems. While numerical methods generally provide approximate solutions to nonlinear continuous systems, numerical methods applied to many nonlinear sampled-data systems provide exact solutions. Approximate solutions exist when exact solutions are not possible, i.e., for the more complex system configurations."
"GENERAL METHODS of numerical analysis are developed in a previous paper1 for nonlinear sampled-data control systems in which the nonlinearity effectively occurs before the linear frequency-sensitive elements in the sampled error channel. These methods are inadequate if the system nonlinearity effectively occurs between two linear frequency-sensitive elements, as shown in Fig. 1. This paper extends the application of numerical analysis to this more complex problem. The resulting methods no longer lead to an exact solution."
"THIS PAPER describes existing, presently planned, and experimental impressed-current cathodic protection (CP) installations at the Hanford Atomic Products Operation. The Hanford plants are located in the south-central part of the state of Washington. Climatic conditions are semiarid and the plant area is typical desert country. The soil is predominantly glacial deposits ranging from fine sand to gravel mixed with larger boulders. This water-washed material has a very high resistivity, from 5,000 to 100,000 ohm-centimeters, although there are local strata of hardpan and alkali of lower resistivity. In general, the soil is only mildly corrosive to ordinary materials. Most of the original cast-iron, galvanized-steel, and carbon-steel underground piping installed in 1943 and 1944 is in good condition. As discussed herein, the direct burial of unprotected stainless-steel pipe lines has not been successful."
"RELIABILITY has always been the primary requirement for aircraft generating systems. The rapid development of high-performance aircraft has continually demanded greater reliability along with increased operating temperatures. These two conditions are not directly compatible. As temperatures increase the choice of insulations and lubricants is narrowed to a few which, in general, have inherently lower mechanical properties than the conventional lower temperature materials. During high-temperature operation these materials, as well as the electromagnetic materials, suffer additional loss in physical and electrical properties. The desired increase in reliability must be achieved despite these obstacles introduced by the increased temperatures."
"THIS PAPER describes a dual-mode servo which utilizes a relay or contactor for both the saturated mode and the linear mode. The dual-mode servo, which was first suggested by McDonald,1,2 operates as an on-off or bang-bang controller for large amplitude errors (saturation mode) and as a linear servo when the error approaches zero (linear mode). The saturation mode may be optimized for a minimum transient response to step function inputs by means of special nonlinear circuitry which is used to determine the optimum points for control reversal, normally referred to as a switching line. The linear mode is optimized by inserting linear networks of the lead-lag variety."
"THE USUAL approach to provide a constant-frequency alternating-current electric power system is to drive a generator at constant speed, thus producing output power at constant frequency. Numerous methods have been devised for obtaining constant frequency power from a generator running at variable speeds. Analysis of these systems have shown the vast majority of these methods to be impractical for one reason or another, the usual problem being that an excess amount of power is required for generator excitation."
"This paper describes the work accomplished at NADEVCEN (the Naval Air Development Center) to develop definition of frequency characteristic of ripple and to provide guidance in the voltage measurement of ripple. Factors influencing the unpredictable variations in ripple measurements are recognized and noted for guidance. Frequency characteristic data of ripple accumulated from various aircraft d-c power sources formed the basis for the developed limits recommended to be integrated into military specifications."
"NUCLEAR radiation causes material degradation through several processes. Ionizing radiations, the charged particles, and gamma rays cause organic materials to change chemically and electrical conductivity to increase. Energetic neutrons displace atoms by knocking them out of their position in the structure of the material; and the displaced atoms, as charged particles, also cause ionization and secondary displacements. Less energetic neutrons may be absorbed by a nucleus. The new isotope may be unstable and decay in any of several processes such as fission, alpha, beta, or gamma emission, each of which may cause ionization. Material degradation then is caused by ionization, displacement, and transmutation which are observed as chemical changes and increased conductivity."
"EVER-INCREASING reliability wherever economically justifiable long has been an important objective for the designers of all electric equipment. Rough yardsticks- such as service life, maintenance costs, and complaint charges - have been used as measures of success in the attainment of this objective, but precise, quantitative indices of reliability have been lacking in many cases. This lack of emphasis on the quantitative evaluation of product reliability may have been justifiable in the past, but the situation is changing rapidly. In particular, components for aircraft and missile applications will be required more and more frequently to attain specified levels of reliability. This will be necessary because performance requirements in such applications require that components be pushed to the extremes of their capabilities. In addition, the dollar and time investment required to bring a modern, air-borne weapons systems to an operational status, coupled with the vital importance of such systems performing their assigned tasks, makes it imperative that all components not only meet specified performance standards, but that they do so reliably and consistently."
"This paper describes a design and analog computer study of a high-temperature aircraft a-c electrical system. The study includes an extensive, nonlinear representation of the a-c alternator and shows the effects of temperature, load, and regulator and exciter nonlinear behavior on system stability and transient performance. Torque-limiting techniques are evaluated and a computer approach for study of the reactive load division loop is developed."
"AT THE PRESENT TIME, many electric power sources of unconventional nature are being pursued vigorously in research and development. One of these, thermoelectric generation, has enjoyed renewed interest because of the development of semiconductor thermoelectric materials yielding efficiencies which are now practical for some devices and encouraging for others."
"AIRCRAFT operating at multi-Mach speeds and high altitudes subject some portions of the electric systems to severe environmental changes. A program is underway to develop a suitable system including an a-c generator with constant-speed drive, a contactor, a circuit breaker, a current transformer, and a transformer-rectifier unit for conversion to direct current. Development and selection of materials for use in the transformer-rectifier are covered in this paper."
"CATHODIC protection of underground structures for the mitigation of corrosion to those structures has long been an established means for controlling corrosion. It is interesting to note that this paper deals primarily with a relatively new technique in the field of corrosion, proposed originally by the man given credit in “Who's Who” for the development of cathodic protection. This man, Mr. R. J. Kuhn, a consulting engineer in New Orleans, La., has made several contributions in the field of corrosion control. The original idea of cathodic protection is one of impressing a direct current in such a way as to counteract the tendency of the galvanic or man-made electric currents which tend to leave the underground structures, thereby counteracting the loss of metal through the electrochemical process known as corrosion or electrolysis."
"IN MISSILE applications, electric equipment is required to function for a relatively short period of time in a hot ambient atmosphere, but is deprived of external cooling media such as air or oil. The dependability of the equipment depends on its ability to absorb its own heat losses or to transmit these losses by conduction to cooler surroundings. The general purpose of this paper is to present a method for predicting simultaneously the transient temperatures in two heat-generating solids such that both materials store some heat, while some heat is transmitted from one to the other and thence possibly to a third region at a fixed temperature. In particular, mean transient temperatures are predicted in the field winding and laminations of an a-c generator which is bolted to a support, but otherwise insulated from the ambient atmosphere. Application of this method to temperature prediction in solid-state devices is natural."
"THE PURPOSE of this paper is to demonstrate that the performance of instrument servos can be improved by the exclusive use of magnetic devices and transistors to perform the functions of amplification, modulation, and demodulation. Substitution of solid-state devices for electronic amplifiers and mechanical choppers not only increases the efficiency, the reliability, and the durability of the system but also minimizes its size and weight."
"MAN is that inexplicably complex creature who confidently expects to fly to the moon in the next decade and yet spends more time between home and work now than he did a decade ago."
"MANY ANALYTICAL studies directed at the predetermination of output characteristics of a-c servomotors have been based on the assumptions of constant-source impedance and sinusoidal excitation. Under these assumptions, the method of symmetrical components serves admirably, particularly when steady-state characteristics are desired, and in cases where the duration of the mechanical transients makes the electrical transients insignificant."
"This paper describes a method of obtaining a sinusoidal suppressed carrier voltage using two synchros connected in such a way as to eliminate the need for slip rings. The result is a relatively simple and maintenance-free signal generator that is capable of producing modulation frequencies as high as 500 cps (cycles per second)."
"This paper is concerned with the problem of designing an “adaptive controller” for the control of a certain class of dynamic processes. In general, these processes consist of a dynamic element governed by a nonstationary, linear differential equation. It is assumed that the designer knows only the form of the differential equation and bounds on the parameter variations but not the exact equations. A further complication of the problem is that all measurements of the state variables of the process are obscured by additive noise."
"BOTH ALUMINUM and copper have high conductivity and hence are excellently suited for use as electric conductors. Since both metals are widely used, connections between them frequently have to be made. The most common type of connection is the bolted joint, as when an aluminum bus bar is bolted to a copper stud. Although this type of connection is satisfactory, frequently a more efficient and less bulky connection, with better appearance, can be made by flash welding, as illustrated in Fig. 1."
"ANY VACUUM-tube or transistor amplifier is continuously subjected to random current and voltage disturbances of varying peak amplitude and waveshape. Thermal noise is a common example of such excitation. The importance of this interfering effect, as far as the circuit designer is concerned, depends to a large extent upon the relative magnitudes of the desired signals for which the amplifier is designed as compared to the strength of the response produced by the system to the random excitation."
"THE RUBBER and Plastics Subcommittee of the General Industry Applications Committee is presenting for discussion the following proposed Recommended Practices, in the hope that comments from the wide circulation so provided will be helpful in attaining maximum usefulness from the specifications. Membership of the Working Group assigned to this project consists of engineers from both large and small rubber companies, electrical manufacturers, machinery builders, and consulting engineering firms. The requirements listed are a composite of the desires of the persons who apply controls to the large rubber and plastics processing machines, influenced to an appropriate degree by the manufacturers. Discussions resulting from this presentation are necessary to assure the widest possible acceptance of the proposal."
"Mathematical error criteria are examined in terms of the goals of an adaptive control system. For dynamic processes which contain pure-time delay, a modification of these error criteria is postulated on the basis of the time-domain concept of control developed here."
"LINEAR FEEDBACK systems with periodic sampling, finite pulsing, finite pulse clamping and similar variations have been a subject of increasing interest in recent years. Applications in such important areas as digital control and time-division multiplexing have motivated continued research and development. This is particularly true for certain types of systems where the theory is extensive and well developed. Unfortunately, there are many types of systems which have received little or no attention."
"THERE IS an immense body of literature on the general subject of feedback control theory. The greatest portion of this literature is devoted to the analysis and synthesis of single-loop or simple multiloop linear or piecewise-linear feedback systems. In most of this work, there is a common fundamental assumption, and that is that the designer has, or can obtain, reasonably complete knowledge of the properties of the device or process which is to be controlled. This knowledge generally consists of a fairly accurate characterization of the process or device under one set of environmental conditions, along with information indicating the manner and the limits within which the properties of the process vary with time and with different external conditions. It is the ability of closed-loop control to render the complete system relatively insensitive to inaccuracies in the characterization and to variations in the properties of the process to be controlled that has resulted in the phenonomenal growth of the field."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the periodical."
"Presents the title page of this issue of the periodical."
"WHILE THE PRIME SOURCE of power for the Bell System communication network is alternating current purchased from utilities, almost all service is backed up by a storage battery reserve which at all times stands ready to take over the load for limited periods of time. Rarely is telephone service interrupted during periods of failure of commercial power."
"THE essential purpose of most electrical grounds is protection. The National Electrical Code states that: “Circuits are grounded for the purpose of limiting the voltage upon the circuit which might otherwise occur through exposure to lightning or other voltages higher than that for which the circuit is designed: or to limit the maximum potential to ground due to normal voltage.”1 It states further that exposed metal enclosing electric conductors or enclosing electric equipment are grounded for the purpose of preventing a potential above ground on those enclosures. While there are other purposes for electrical ground, such as those which are required in the communication field, most grounding is done for protection either of equipment or of personnel. Even static grounding at oil or gasoline unloading facilities is a protective device."
"Recently, many papers have been published concerning optimum nonlinear control systems. It seems that the controllers which utilize this control method have become more complex than conventional controllers. In this paper, the author proposes a new type of control action, “modified optimum nonlinear control,” which not only reduces the complexities of the controller but also gives a nearly optimum control, i.e., control action, which is a compromise between theory and practice. The analog computer study of this control method and its comparison with the discrete compensation techniques in sampled-data control systems are also shown."
"The test program on a large aluminum potline system was directed towards the investigation of some basic electrical characteristics of aluminum potlines and large d-c systems. The program consisted of three parts: impedance measurements, system and tie-line circuit-breaker tests, and anode circuit-breaker arc-back tests."
"THE PURPOSE of this paper is to investigate a method by which the performance of parallel aircraft a-c generator systems may be predicted, and to define boundaries for the characteristics of generator, regulator, constant-speed drive, and real and reactive load division circuit (LDC) which will guarantee satisfactory parallel operation. The method will be restricted to the analysis of load transfer oscillations in parallel generator systems. Its advantage is that only one generator system need be considered in order to investigate parallel operation and load transfer oscillations; this is because a parallel electric power system is symmetrical with respect to the voltage bus connecting the parallel generators."
"WORK ON mechanical rectifier standards was initiated by the Mechanical Rectifier Subcommittee in 1955. Because of the comparative newness and very rapid development of the mechanical rectifier, the work was slow and difficult. The first stumbling block, as in all standardization work, was encountered in the matter of definitions, since no uniform terminology had developed. The entire effort of the subcommittee was therefore concentrated on definitions."
"AN OUTSTANDING advantage of electric traction for heavy mainline railroading is the lower maintenance costs realized with electric locomotives in comparison with other forms of motive power such as the steam locomotive or the diesel-electric. This attribute is virtually self-evident when it is considered that the electric locomotive is essentially a converter of energy, and is not burdened with power generators as are the self-contained types of motive power."
"IN MOST CASES, heating facilities to be installed in a particular residence (and other structures) must be sized before the house is built and prior to any actual experience knowledge of the heating requirements. This makes necessary the introduction of calculations, which wise practice indicates should provide an unquestionably ample heating system. Overdesign is common and not of substantial consequence, so long as fuel-fired systems are involved, since the fuel is usually readily stored in the basement, garage, or gas holder awaiting uses. Overdesign in electric heating installation may be necessary to a certain degree to provide for quick pick-up; however, any surplus represents an instantaneous liability on utility system capacity at the time of system peak load, since kilowatt-hours (kw-hr) cannot readily be stored as such. Surplus capacity should be minimized to assure a low cost to serve ratio."
"FLUORESCENT lamp ballasts were first introduced by the General Electric Company in 1939 as a necessary auxiliary for a new lighting source, the fluorescent lamp. From the time of the introduction of this new product up through World War II, standard 105 C (degrees centigrade) (class A) insulation materials were used and little was done about improving this aspect of the product. Primary development activity was concerned with reducing size and improving circuitry of the units."
"The pole locations of feedback amplifiers of an arbitrarily large number of stages, but with only one or two characteristic time constants, can be solved analytically. The resulting expression is then general for all of one class of amplifiers. A solution of the case of n stages of one time constant and m stages of another with n/m ≫ 1 is presented. The case with m = 1 and with ideal matched transmission lines in the loop is also solved. Other cases presented are for m = 0 and m = n. The analysis is shown to be good for high- or low-frequency investigations where the system bandwidth is broad enough to prevent high- and low-frequency response interference."
"A PREVIOUS PAPER1 has proposed the “probabilistic error” as measure of performance and basis of design for control systems. The probabilistic error or “end-sigma error” was defined as the average value of the suitably penalized error occurring at such times when the output of the system is actually utilized. This measure of performance was mathematically formulated1 and, for squared-error penalizing and invariant linear systems, was evaluated in a general way in the s or the t domain. An integral equation was also obtained1 which defines the optimum time invariant linear system in the sense that it has the smallest probabilistic error."
"THE “PROBABILISTIC ERROR” or “end-sigma error,” meaning the average penalized error for such times when the output is actually being used, has been proposed as a measure of control system performance in an earlier publication.1 A companion paper2 presents a complete design process to find the time invariant continuous linear system which possesses the minimum probabilistic square error in a given environment of random and deterministic signals and random noise. A corresponding design process is presented in this paper for impulse-sampled systems. The result of this design is a linear digital filter to be used with a given plant in order to keep the probabilistic square error to a minimum. Working equations are presented, which were developed with digital computer programing and solutions in mind. Such solutions can be obtained for very general signal input and noise environments. However, the proposed method works best when the output is being utilized within a time interval including a nonexcessive number of samples."
"A NEWLY DEVELOPED approach to the synthesis of control systems has been based on “probabilistic” or “end-sigma” error.1 These names denote the concept of an average p“enalized error for such times when the output of the control system is actually used. Detail design processes for continuous2 or sampled-data3 linear systems have been developed to yield linear systems operating with minimum probabilistic square errors. This paper shows that constraints, specifically an acceleration constraint on the output, can be included in the design process for minimum probabilistic square error. Only continuous systems are treated in this paper, but extension to sampled systems is straightforward."
"AN EARLIER paper1 introduced the concept of the “probabilistic” or “end-sigma” error and proposed it as a measure of control system performance and as a basis for control system design. The probabilistic square error conceptually is the average of the squared error for only those times when the output is used."
"THE ADVENT of silicon semiconductor rectifier applications to large potlines has brought about application problems heretofore not significant. Many of the users of large amounts of d-c power wish to try a large power silicon rectifier in actual service before the purchase of a complete potline. Since the greater majority of the existing potlines have mercury-arc rectifiers providing the d-c power, it is only natural to put a silicon rectifier on a potline in parallel with the mercury-arc rectifiers. Fig. 1 is a single-line diagram of a modern electrochemical potline. The normal method of de-energizing the line is to trip the master a-c circuit breaker feeding all units. The problem of magnitude of potline decay current which must be handled by a single silicon rectifier in parallel with several mercury-arc rectifiers under these conditions requires analysis."
"THE SERIES CAPACITOR for a number of years has been a recognized means of reducing the regulation of power transmission circuits. This paper is devoted to a study of its application to single-phase power rectifiers supplying inductive loads. It is shown here that series capacitors may be of significant help in reducing the voltage regulation at the d-c load. Recommendations are offered for the selection of the appropriate capacitor rating and for capacitor protection. Data are given concerning the effect of the series capacitor on the peak inverse voltages experienced by the rectifier elements. Laboratory data are submitted to demonstrate what degree of success may be anticipated in achieving the theoretically predicted performance when the series capacitor is applied. The authors hope this study will further the acceptance of series capacitor applications and encourage others to extend the analysis to include multiphase rectifiers."
"A NEED has been indicated in the electrical industry for information which will enable the design engineer to predict the magnitude of fault current that will flow in a circuit enclosed by metal conduit when subjected to ground fault conditions. The purpose of this paper is to present usable data, obtained by laboratory tests, for the improved design of grounded-neutral circuits in rigid steel or aluminum conduit."
"A NUMBER of factors influence the selection of wire and cable sizes in an industrial power system. The more important factors are load requirements, codes, plant design specifications, voltage regulation, short-circuit levels, economics, and cable heating."
"In a control system, the transient response can be determined accurately only when the closed-loop poles of the system are known. The determination of the closed-loop poles involves in general a solution of a high-degree equation, which is difficult when the degree of the equation exceeds two. While mathematicians have attempted to solve such equations analytically, the control engineers have preferred approximate graphical solutions. The present paper suggests an extension of an already existing graphical method. The technique followed requires an asymptotic gain-frequency plot of the given open-loop transfer function. The plot is divided into three regions, viz., the high-gain region, the low-gain region, and the region near the crossover frequency. The closed-loop real poles are determined for high-gain and low-gain regions from known relationships of closed-loop and open-loop functions. From the knowledge derived therefrom, the complex-conjugate roots (along with real roots, if any) are determined for the crossover frequency region."
"ELECTRIC winder drives are used universally throughout the paper industry, and electric hackstand brakes are being used in increasing numbers as these winder drives are required to service the new wider and faster-speed paper-making machines. D-c adjustable voltage winder drives are used on all modern high-speed winders. Although some small, slow-speed winders utilize a-c drives, this paper will concern itself with d-c drives having either mechanical or electric hackstand brakes."
"A LARGE GROUP had gathered on the upper platform of The Pennsylvania Railroad Thirtieth Street Station in Philadelphia on Sunday morning, May 17, 1959. Standing at the head of a train of gleaming coaches they watched a very special locomotive back down the track and couple to the leading car. The occasion was the 25th anniversary of the construction of the first class-GG-1 electric locomotive for The Pennsylvania Railroad. It was this locomotive, number 4800, fresh from the paint shop and proudly displaying a 25th anniversary bronze plaque beneath the engineman's window (Fig. 1), that was to haul the National. Railway Historical Society special train. A brief ceremony with its attendant picture-taking climaxed the occasion and the train departed for New York."
"THE CALCULATION OF TRAIN performance, i.e., the speed, the distance traveled, and the running time of a given train over a given route, provides useful information to railroad management and to manufacturers of railroad traction equipment. These calculations are tedious and time consuming when performed manually. For this reason several special-purpose machines have been constructed to perform the computations more rapidly.1 Recently the use of high-speed digital computers has resulted in a much greater saving of time."
"THE OBJECTIVES of this paper are (1) to provide curves displaying accurately determined values for the capacitance per unit length of two parallel rectangular cylinders, and (2) to present a brief explanation of the technique used in obtaining these curves in order to indicate its utility in the study of other conductor configurations. In addition to providing capacitance values, the curves are useful in determining the magnetic permeance associated with relay and contactor magnets of similar configuration. A good example of the latter is the interpole leakage permeance of the magnet in Fig. 1. The technique, a natural extension of the method of subareas, as expounded by Higgins and Reitan,1‾3 was utilized earlier by T. N. Feng in the work described in his unpublished thesis at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis., in 1951. The depth of that investigation was somewhat limited, however, for it was carried on prior to the time that high-speed computing equipment was generally available. The present work obtains useful results by taking full advantage of the capabilities of the magnetic-drum data-processing machine."
"THE PURPOSE of this paper is to discuss the general topic of voltage regulation for modern a-c aircraft and missile electric systems. Both steady-state and transient conditions will be considered. Since there are many types of equipment which utilize a-c electric power and since their number and complexity are growing all the time, such a discussion should prove of merit to both the user and the supplier of the electric power."
"FOR SEVERAL years germanium transistors have been available which are capable of controlling appreciable power. The availability of this versatile component has suggested many new product lines. Considering the temperature, current, and voltage ratings of these devices, one application which suggests itself is the use of a power germanium transistor as the static, power-controlling element in a voltage regulator which could replace the traditional carbon-pile regulator presently being used in conjunction with d-c generators in aircraft and ground-power applications."
"SILICON RECTIFIERS have been used for several years to make brushless d-c excited rotating field synchronous generators.1 The induced field current and voltage during starting have made similar brushless synchronous motors impractical. This paper describes the operation and performance of a new brushless synchronous motor which has been made practical by the development of high-current silicon-controlled rectifiers.2 All sliding- and mechanical-type contacts have been eliminated. The synchronizing function and pull-out protection are automatically provided by a simple static circuit which uses two silicon-controlled rectifiers and Zener diodes. The new motor can be started like a squirrel-cage induction motor with a standard full or reduced voltage starter. The adjustable power factor correction of the conventional synchronous motor is retained."
"THIS SUBJECT is timely because of the recent improvement of reluctance motors to a point where they have considerable sales volume. The pull-in criterion is related to the maximum inertia that can be pulled into step for a given frame size in the rating set on that frame, expressed as a graph or by an equation. This paper derives this equation. A reluctance motor is a synchronous motor without rotor excitation. The pull-in criterion for synchronous motors with d-c excitation was studied by Edgerton and Fourmarier,1 and by Shoults, Crary, and Lauder.2 Although their results cannot be applied to the reluctance motor directly, they were found useful in checking certain steps."
"RECENT ADVANCES in atmospheric and space flight have increased the need for reliable and accurate instrumentation for sensing the angular motions of aircraft, missiles, and space ships. Such measurements are especially needed for guidance and control purposes. At the present time, the preferred devices for measuring angular motion are based on the rotating-wheel gyroscope. By the expenditure of much research and development effort these gyroscopic devices have been brought to a state of perfection which makes inertial navigation technically feasible but very expensive. The present reliance on the rotating wheel does not mean that other devices have not been considered. Over the years a number of alternatives to the rotating wheel have been devised and some of these have been developed to the point where practical limitations on performance were found. In general, however, the total research and development effort that has been devoted to these alternatives has been rather small compared with the effort that has been expended in the refinement of the rotating-wheel gyroscope."
"THE BEHAVIOR of electric motor drivers under transient conditions is presenting an increasing number of problems to electrical engineers in the refining industry. The problems are compounded as larger machines are installed and as continuity of service through momentary voltage failures becomes more important to process operation."
"SWITCHING of electric power is one of the most basic problems of the electrical engineer. The most common and accepted method of switching is by mechanically joining and separating conducting parts. During the past 10 years, the art of switching electric power statically has been developed to the point that it can now compete with the mechanical types of switching devices, particularly in the control field."
"The nonlinear computer for a second-order system preceded by a saturating amplifier, with significant linear zone, was designed through the transformation of the zero-force curve and the geometry of the phase plane into the topology of the nonlinear computer. A finite-gain system was thus designed for the requirement of minimum settling time for step input functions. The method of design was based upon the division of the phase plane into three regions of operation: a saturated one, and two linear ones. The equation of the zero-force curve was that of a parabola. The nonlinear compensator had as its output the sum of the error signal and a nonlinear function of the error rate. Different systems were compared in order to determine the fastest one. One of them proved to be superior to all the others for a spectrum of different input step magnitudes."
"Dual-mode servomechanisms have several advantages such as light weight and simplicity, but a serious study of the stability problems encountered in such devices has not appeared in the literature. An analytical method is presented here for determining the stability of dual-mode servomechanisms by an extension of the describing function method of analysis. The method is illustrated with examples, and laboratory data are presented. Analysis by describing functions shows that a dual-mode system may be unstable even though its linear and relay modes of operation are stable as systems by themselves, and the mode-switching circuitry is perfect. It is also shown that for certain mode boundary shapes the describing function is a function of frequency as well as amplitude."
"The instantaneous forward voltage drop of silicon diodes of different sizes and processes is investigated over four magnitudes of current density. The temperature influence is determined. An equation relating the instantaneous forward voltage drop to current density and junction temperature is given. An expression of the average forward voltage drop and power loss as function of current density and conduction angle is developed."
"THE DYNAMIC behavior of a broad class of physical systems can be described by ordinary nonlinear integro-differential equations of the type"
"The most successful technique in the measurement of arc plasma temperatures has been one based on the Saha theory which describes the particle population of gases in a number of thermally excited states. The presence and variation in these states are detected by spectroscopic means. The general method, first introduced by Fowler and Milne in the measurement of star temperatures, was adapted to man-made arcs by Larenz and Bartels and has been progressively improved upon by a number of investigators. The method described in this paper is essentially that of Larenz and Bartels except that improved instrumentation has been applied to aid in the procurement of the spectroscopic data."
"THE commercial success of a metal-arc-welding process depends in large measure upon the mode by which molten metal is transferred from the electrode to the workpiece. Excessively large drops will produce irregular beads which, in some cases, are bounded by regions of spatter. The presence of spatter not only mars the appearance of the joint but also represents a loss in deposition efficiency. This phase of the welding problem has occupied a prominent place in arc physics research during the past decade. Motion pictures showing transfer in slow motion is a familiar tool which has contributed to our knowledge of the various patterns and modes of metallic transfer with preset welding conditions."
"THE OHIO Stamping Plant of Chrysler. Corporation at Twinsburg, Ohio, covers an area of 1,500,000 sq ft (square feet), approximately 34 acres. Power is supplied by the Ohio Edison Company to supply the great number of motor loads and so forth for the heavy presses and other manufacturing equipment in the plant. The estimated short-circuit duty is 2,500,000 kva, based on long-range future plans. The estimated initial short-circuit duty is 600,000 kva 3 phase symmetrical."
"AN INSTRUMENT servomechanism is normally thought of as a small positioning device with low power consumption. A typical block diagram is shown in Fig. 1. A gear ratio of 1 to 1 is used in this paper for convenience. The load is shown as an inertia with coulomb friction but no viscous friction. It is further assumed that JL = 0. This might correspond to the common case in which the output member is just the wiper arm of a potentiometer. When there is backlash in the gear train the following sequence of events is normal. The motor drives (with backlash taken up), reducing the error: as the motor velocity decreases the load velocity also decreases, and continuous mechanical contact is maintained because JL = 0, and the coluomb friction C provides adequate drag on the output. When the motor velocity becomes zero, the load velocity also becomes zero. If the error is not zero, the motor reverses but the load does not move because of the backlash. Thus, the error does not change and the motor is driven open-loop with a constant driving torque, or voltage, until the backlash is taken up. The load is then “picked up” by the drive and both the output velocity and the error rate jump from zero to the instantaneous drive shaft velocity. This sequence is usually repeated a number of times."
"IN a previous paper1 the author described the application of the method of quasi-linearization (that of Booton2) to the determination of input-output cross-correlation functions for relay servomechanisms. Experimental verification of the validity of this analysis was presented in the form of analog-computer simulation results for several specific configurations. The present work is an extension of the earlier effort, presenting the results for simulated systems with memory-type nonlinearities. The theoretical analysis of the memory-type system is accomplished by combining quasi-linearization with a well-known analog-computer technique for generating hysteresis-type nonlinearities by placing nonmemory nonlinearities within closed subloops."
"A study is made on the optimization of the adjustment process in a self-optimizing system under rather general assumptions. The system is designed to keep a performance parameter m either at a prescribed value or at an unknown extremal value. A direct measurement on m is made and the adjustment is based on measured m only."
"IT HAS generally been recognized that locomotive maintenance costs increase with age. However, the impact of today's inflationary economy has materially compounded these cost increases, and some measure of them is vital to motive power replacement studies since failure to evaluate such increases properly can have serious future consequences. Fortunately, statistical methods are available which can provide reasonably accurate forecasts by means of analyzing past costs, and then projecting the developed trend into the future."
"IMPROVED SIGNAL SYSTEMS such as Centralized Traffic Control (CTC) have enabled railroads to move train traffic on a single main track with passing sidings that formerly required two tracks or the general use of train orders and timetable authority. A digital computer program has been designed to aid railroad management in selecting the proper siding locations and signal spacing when considering a CTC system. Using an IBM (International Business Machines Corporation) 650 computer the traffic pattern of up to ten trains operating at one time on a 100-150-mile division of a railroad may be predicted. Initial information stored in the computer memory describes the grades, curve speed restrictions, signal locations, and track layout of the railroad. Also, data for each train are available to the computer. This information includes the number, weight, and type of cars, the power of the locomotive, the origin and destination, and the time of departure."
"THE FRENCH NATIONAL Railroads network, of standard gage track, comprises more than 39,500 kilometers (km) or almost 25,000 miles of route. The French Railroad Companies were nationalized on January 1938, and immediately thereafter efforts were made to modernize them."
"A simple transformation is advanced for correlating the characteristic of a nonlinear element with the harmonic content in its frequency response to sinusoidal inputs. By a process of curve fitting the characteristic is represented by a polynomial. The frequency response to sinusoidal inputs is represented as a Fourier series. The polynomial and the Fourier series are related by means of the simple transformation x = sin θ. The method is applied to some of the common nonlinearities encountered in control system components. Its use in the determination of the describing function, as well as the harmonic response function, is discussed. Details in the case of an experimental verification are included."
"THE squirrel-cage induction motor so well known to manufacturers and users of machinery of all kinds is usually-considered to be a constant-speed drive because the power available for energizing the motors nearly always has a fixed frequency. This is the frequency of the available power supply from a utility company or local power plant. If an adjustable frequency power supply with the proper characteristics is provided, these motors will operate over a wide speed range with essentially constant torque capability. The rugged, simple construction of the squirrel-cage motor or the similar reluctance synchronous motor can thus be combined with the flexibility of an adjustable speed drive. Fig. 1 shows the basic elements of an adjustable frequency drive consisting of a synchronous generator, its adjustable speed drive, starting equipment, and the drive motors."
"THE PURPOSE of this paper is threefold: to advance general equations for calculating the short-circuit forces associated with each subconductor, conductor, and bus support of a multiple-conductor rectangular-strap single-phase or polyphase bus; to illustrate application of these equations in actual design by numerical analyses of several busses typical of the different major types encountered in practice; and to determine the efficiency and relative accuracy of several approximate procedures advanced for reducing the total numerical labor incident to application for a specified bus."
"This paper describes a method for the accurate computation of the dynamic operating characteristics of an electromechanical system such as a relay or solenoid or other electromagnetic device. This method is based upon the principle of conservation of energy and is particularly useful in systems where energy is transformed from one form to one or more other forms. While an a-c-operated contactor or relay will be used to demonstrate the method in this paper, the method is not restricted to this type of device only, but can be applied to any type of dynamic system. This type of approach is one which is possible and practical because digital computers can be used to do the calculations in a reasonable length of time."
"IN GENERAL, the system function of a linear feedback control system may be symbolized by"
"LEAD-ACID, nickel-cadmium, and silver-zinc storage batteries have been used, or have been proposed for use, on commercial and military aircraft. Each one of these electrochemical systems has characteristics that recommend it for service in aircraft. Lead-acid batteries, dating from the double-chamber Mark 1-7 series, have been used for a long time in such service and are well adapted to the conventional electric circuits used in airplanes. Nickel-cadmium batteries may be \"hermetically\" sealed, an obviously desirable characteristic, and exhibit good outputs over a wide range of discharge rates. Silver-zinc batteries give high electrical output per unit weight and volume, a most desirable characteristic for aircraft where weight and volume are at a premium. Recently, a fourth system, the silver-cadmium battery, has been proposed but insufficient data are presently available to predict its over-all performance."
"IT IS COMMON practice in college servomechanism laboratories to build a simple “linear” servomechanism system from which the student can determine the frequency and transient response. This simple system is generally composed of an error detector, electronic amplifier, and 2-phase servomotor as illustrated in Fig. 1. The student is immediately disturbed to discover that both the frequency and transient responses depend on the magnitude of the input signal. This is, of course, contrary to linear theory. The only conclusion that can be reached is that the apparently linear system just is not linear due to the characteristics of the 2-phase motor. In a previous publication it was shown why the Mp and resonant frequency of the frequency response characteristics varied with the magnitude of the input signal.1 It is the purpose of this paper to show how the nonlinear characteristics of the 2-phase motor influences the transient response of the system. This analysis is best carried out by means of the phase-plane method."
"This paper presents the theory and procedure for designing sampled-data control systems of the rippleless type having a digital processing unit in the forward line and another digital processing unit in the feedback loop to respond optimally to inputs as well as to neutralize the disturbance. Two examples using the proposed design procedure are given, and their root loci are plotted and discussed."
"THE USE OF BATTERIES in control centers, such as are found in sub- and central stations, is well established. With this application goes the need for a battery charger which will maintain the battery in a fully charged state. It must also carry any fixed load and be capable of recharging the battery when required by battery and circuit conditions."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"As noted in the editorial, many of the papers in this issue are concerned with basic mathematical tools that may be applied to the field of automatic control. Also included is a discussion of the International Federation of Automatic Control, a second installment of a tutorial paper on vector quantities in control, and another bibliography on Time Lag Systems."
"The initials IFAC, standing for the International Federation of Automatic Control, are appearing more and more in the control systems literature these days. It is appropriate that readers of these TRAHSACTIONS be more fully aware of this organization in which they participate through the IRE's membership in the American Automatic Control Council. What are IFAC's purposes, who are its members, how does it operate, what has it accomplished? Now, after two years of existence for IFAC, these data are better known and have more significance."
"In many engineering, economic, biological, and statistical control processes, a decision-making device is called upon to perform tinder various conditions of uncertainty regarding underlying physical processes. These conditions range from complete knowledge to total ignorance. As the process unfolds, additional information may become available to the controlling element, which then has the possibility of “learning” to improve its performance based upon experience; i.e., the controlling element may adapt itself to its environment. On a grand scale, situations of this type occur in the development of physical theories throgh the mutual interplay of experimentation and theory; on a smaller scale they occur in connection with the design of learning servomechanisms and adaptive filters. The central purpose of this paper is to lay a foundation for the mathematical treatment of broad classes of such adaptive processes. This is accomplished through use of the concepts of dynamic programming. Subsequent papers will be devoted to specific applications in different fields and various theoretical extensions."
"The exponentially-mapped-past (emp) statistical variables represent an approach to the statistical analysis of a process when the interest is focused on the recent behavior of the process. An exponential weighting function, decreasing into the past, in the case of continuously observed processes, and a geometric ratio, in the case of discrete data, are utilized. This approach is the simplest from the point of view of ease of computation, and at the same time it possesses the advantage of some simple theoretical relationships, which are discussed. Analog computer circuits and digital computer flow diagrams which serve to compute the exponentially-mapped-past statistical variables are presented."
"A generalized weighting function is obtained for a linear feedback system with a pulse-modulated error signal. This is expressed in the form of a matrix operator acting on an input vector, the components of which are the first R − 1 derivatives of the input, where R is the order of the unmodulated closed-loop system. In addition, since the system operator takes the form of a finite dimensional matrix, it has been possible to make and realize more stringent conditions on the transient stability; namely, a preassigned bounded output after a preassigned time. Although the solution has been obtained generally for non-uniform pulsing, the latter stability investigation has been made only for the uniform case."
"Several important criteria for the performance of communication systems and control systems are reviewed, and a new criterion (the mean-weighted-square-error criterion) is then introtroduced. This is shown to be a special form of a very general criterion proposed earlier, but to have special significance in that it is a generalization of the familiar mean-square-error criterion. The minimization of the mean-weighted-square error is treated in detail, and a solution for the optimum physically realizable frequency function of the system is given."
"The characterization of multiple-rate sampled-data systems by the ordinary z-transform of single-rate systems is shown. Single-rate sampling, or impulse modulation, of continuous signals is performed by an impulse modulator, M; the sampled, or “starred,” function is described by the z-transform. In an analogous manner, a submultiple-rate modulator is introduced; its presence in a branch allows the passage of every nth pulse, or a train of pulses at a submultiple rate; the nomenclature of single-rate systems is continued through the performance of submultiple-rate “starring” of discrete signals and discrete niters. Table I permits starred expressions to be rewritten as functions of the z-transform in closed form. Techniques are shown for the reduction of discrete, and mixed continuous and discrete systems via flow graphs, so that, after the modulators are removed from the feedback loops, the analysis may proceed by standard methods. Representation of single-and submultiple-rate modulation in the s- and z-planes is used to demonstrate that submultiple-rate modulation of discrete signals is analogous to the impulse modulation of continuous signals."
"In Part 1 of this paper13 a vector algebra was developed using a three-element column matrix to represent the vector, and a three-by-three matrix to represent a vector transformation operator. Problems in spherical trigonometry were analyzed with the use of a position vector, and the design of automatic computers to solve such problems was considered. In Part 2, the angular velocity vector is introduced for the purpose of analyzing and designing geometric stabilization systems."
"The differential properties of root loci including pole sensitivity, angle of slope, and curvature at ordinary and irregular points are investigated in a unified manner. A relation between the sensitivity function and pole sensitivity is established. The sensitivity is shown to determine variations in the transfer function due to large (not only infinitesimal) variations in K. Additional properties of loci which are developed include loci of a variable pole position and the existence of asymptotes for open-loop transfer functions with the poles or zeros at infinity. The locus is treated as a transformation of a line (the real axis) in the K plane to the s plane, and properties of analytic functions are used to simplify calculations and results. It is shown that the properties obtained can be extended to the general root locus of a nonreal K."
"In a recent issue of these Transactions, Weiss1 has given an excellent annotated bibliography on the subject of transportation lag. He was kind enough to refer to a previous bibliography which appeared in this author's thesis (his reference number [Ch 5]). Since the latter is not generally available, the bibliography therein is given here. The items which have already appeared in Weiss' listing have been omitted; items which have appeared since the thesis was written have been included. While most of the items here were found by library searches, acknowledgment must be made to Bellman's2 bibliographies as a source. If there are items which have not been mentioned either here or in Weiss' paper, the author of the present paper would appreciate being informed about it by either a complete reference or a copy of the paper (or papers) in question. A short introduction on the mathematical characterization of time lag systems is given before the bibliography."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"To stimulate the development of thermoelectricity, a number of articles have been prepared for Electrical Engineering by prominent representatives of this important field. Some of the concepts and recent progress are reviewed in this first article."
"Some of the more effective methods for measuring such important parameters of thermoelectric materials as Seebeck coefficient, thermal conductivity, and electrical resistivity are described."
"An investigation for determining the feasibility of this system is divided into three phases: (1) general investigation of cooling capacity and performance of thermoelectric couples; (2) design of a refrigerating system for a large frozen stores room and a smaller chilled stores room; and (3) determination of the performance and operation of the entire system."
"This article presents the various aspects of thermoelectric generator material measurement. Engineers need to be informed not only of the “how” of measurements but also of just what the various measurements can reveal and which ones are needed for a specific purpose."
"A STUDY of the effects of high temperature on the properties of magnetic core materials was made to facilitate the development of military components for operation under extreme environmental conditions. The following materials were studied: Transformer A; Audio Transformer A, L and Z Silectron; Orthonol; AEM 4750; 4–79 Mo Permalloy; 11.7 Alfenol; 15.5 Alfenol; 3 Mo Thermenol; Supermendur; and 7–70 Perminvar."
"Practical thermoelectric cooling has become a reality with the development of thermoelectric semiconductor materials. To illustrate this type of cooling, several devices which represent applications in the electronics industry and medicine are described."
"MULTIPLEXING is the process by which two or more signals are combined for transmission over a common medium. Asynchronous multiplexing is any such process which does not require the various transmitters to be synchronized with each other. Thus, frequency division is such a system, but is considered here only for a comparison standard."
"A brief description of the plan, recently approved by the Board of Directors of the AIEE, for the formation of Institute Groups. These groups are intended to serve members of the Institute having a common interest, either along technical or more general lines."
"The range of subject matter in the broad field of electrical/electronic engineering is constantly widening. The reasoning behind and necessity for Electrical Engineering's “horizontal” approach are explained."
"The use of an industrial computer of the general-purpose, digital, stored-program type for the accumulation of data from tank farm storage facilities and its automatic manipulation into forms suitable for inventory control and further processing."
"A survey of the economic and other factors that make electrification more desirable than the present diesel-electric system. An early revival of electrification in North America is predicted."
"ALL RUBBING SURFACES are subject to friction in three forms: the usual viscous friction; coulomb friction which is a reaction force independent of velocity; and stiction, the phenomenon that surfaces at rest stick together and require a greater force to initiate motion than is required to maintain motion."
"In large power systems, it is essential that load dispatchers have before them at all times a graphic picture of the many variable quantities they are supervising. The various types of continuous telemetering equipment in use on the Bonneville Power Administration's transmission system are described."
"THE WIDESPREAD ADOPTION of aluminum conductors for urban overhead power systems during the last 10 years has created a demand for a homogeneous aluminum-alloy cable having better sag characteristics than one made of EC (electrical grade) aluminum. With 5005 aluminum alloy, cables have been developed which meet this demand. In addition, since 5005 is a nonheat-treatable alloy, wires can be produced on conventional equipment and manufacturing costs are low."
"THE T&D RR,∗ together with its Gravy Train, was invented during the Thanksgiving holidays. This revolutionary new power source and form of transport is revealed here for the first time."
"A THEORY has been developed for explaining the convergence of iteration methods used in the solution of power flow problems in large electric networks. This theory will predict the improvement to be expected when using certain acceleration techniques, thus giving a means for determining the fastest convergence for a given problem. The new understanding that this theory gives of the mechanism of convergence of problems of this type should lead to new and better methods of solving power system problems on a digital computer."
"THE 1960 Pacific General Meeting of the AIEE will be held at the El Cortez Hotel in San Diego, Calif. Technical sessions are scheduled for Tuesday through Friday, August 9–12. The registration desk in the El Cortez Hotel will be open during the late afternoon and in the evening on Monday, August 8."
"THE INSTITUTE'S Summer General Meeting, June 19–24, 1960, will be held in Atlantic City, N.J., with members of the Philadelphia Section, AIEE, acting as hosts. Headquarters will be at the Chalfonte-Haddon Hall Hotels on the boardwalk."
"More than 3,000 persons attended the recent 1960 International Solid-State Circuits Conference which was held on the campus of the University of Pennsylvania and the Sheraton Hotel in Philadelphia, Pa."
"A 1½-day tutorial program on solid-state electronics is to be presented at Purdue University on June 23–24 under the joint sponsorship of the Institute of Radio Engineers Professional Group on Education and the Electrical Engineering Division of the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE)."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The Cement Industry Technical Conference, sponsored for the 2nd year by the AIEE Cement Industry Subcommittee, will be held May 17–19, 1960, in the Pfister Hotel, Milwaukee, Wis."
"This is the 10th year that four of the nation's leading engineering and manufacturing organizations have joined together to sponsor the Electronic Components Conference. The 1960 conference will be held May 10–12 at the Washington Hotel, 15th and F Streets, N.W., Washington, D. C."
"Two sessions on data transmission are being planned as a joint item on the program of the 1960 National Electronics Conference (NEC) and the AIEE Fall General Meeting. The Communication Theory Committee and the Data Transmission Committee are co-operating with Professional Groups of the Institute of Radio Engineers and the NEC Program Committee to make this an event of considerable professional interest."
"The 11th Annual Appliance Technical Conference will be held May 16–17, 1960, in the Mansfield-Leland Hotel, Mansfield, Ohio."
"AIEE members representing electric utilities and electrical manufacturing firms will author eight of the 130 technical papers on electric power generation and transmission that will be presented at the 18th biennial meeting of the International Conference on Large Electric Systems to be held in Paris, France, June 15–25, 1960."
"THE LARGEST long-range surveillance radar subsystem in the Free World is being installed in the Arctic at the U. S. Air Force's Ballistic Missile Early Warning System (BMEWS) Site 1, according to T. I. Paganelli, manager of the General Electric Company (GE) missile detection systems section, heavy military electronics department, Syracuse, N. Y."
"AN automatic aircraft landing system capable of landing two airplanes a minute during adverse weather is being evaluated by engineers of the Federal Aviation Agency (FAA) at the National Aviation Facilities Experimental Center, Atlantic City, N.J."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A very fast electromechanical switch called the “ferreed” has been invented by a team of engineers at Bell Telephone Laboratories. It utilizes a new technique for actuation which is compatible in speed with electronic circuits."
"How much is a radar receiver “fooled” by the radome in which it is mounted? This question is being answered with the aid of a new radar test tower now in use by the General Electric Company (GE) heavy military electronics department at its antenna development facility near Cazenovia, N.Y."
"A detailed infrared photo taken with a system developed by HRB-Singer, Inc., has been declassified by the Office of Security Revue, Department of Defense, it was announced recently by Dr. J. L. McLucas, president of HRB-Singer, Inc., a subsidiary of The Singer Manufacturing Co."
"A fully supercharged steam turbine-generator which utilizes a unique conductor cooling system in the generator stator has been developed at Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Co., Milwaukee, Wis. Copper coil strands in the stator are transposed around a total of 6,000 feet of rectangular stainless tubing. Hydrogen gas passes through the tubing at velocities up to 10,000 feet per minute, transferring heat from the stator coils, keeping them at desirable temperatures."
"A small (1-foot high), lightweight (10 pounds), automatic “power plant,” with no moving parts, that can produce electricity for a year on $10 worth of ordinary propane gas and will keep running as long as the fuel supply lasts, has been placed on the market by General Instrument Corporation."
"A miniature airborne tape recording system, possibly the smallest 28-channel recording device ever designed for space, air, and industrial use, has been developed by the Leach Corp., Special Products Division."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statement? made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The theoretical transient response and the effects of sinusoidal ripple currents in thermoelectric cooling cells under various load conditions are analyzed."
"An investigation into the thermoelectric properties of semiconductor materials to uncover the feasibility of power-generating efficiencies at temperatures from 25 to 700 C. Discussion is centered on general considerations of efficiency factors leading to materials selection and some preliminary results in the evaluation of compound semiconductors and their solid-solution alloys."
"In this study of thermoelectric air conditioning, the emphasis is on that part of the air-conditioning system which provides temperature and humidity control and on the loads imposed on such a system."
"MUCH HAS BEEN WRITTEN on the subject of reliability, but there still exists a need for industry-wide agreement on a precise definition of the meaning of the numerical value of reliability associated with specific pieces of equipment."
"A brief exposition of the thermodynamics of thermoelectricity and a discussion of the measurement techniques developed to provide quality control data for the selection of thermoelectric material."
"This article presents a guide for the design of any thermoelectric generator to yield a given output for a given heat source and heat sink. The design procedure takes into account the Thomson effect, as well as the variations with temperature of the thermoelectric properties of a set of materials."
"An attempt to illustrate the practical problems encountered in utilizing thermoelectric materials now available to construct a 100-watt, free-convection-cooled thermoelectric generator for the U. S. Air Force."
"An attempt to determine the upper theoretical limit of the well-known materials parameter, the figure of merit z."
"THE PROBLEM of torsional resonance in turbine-generators is solvable by a number of different methods. Results of the present analysis serve as an approximate, independent check on these solutions. In addition, the effect of changing physical proportions of the unit may be evaluated from the curves."
"A NEW TYPE of excitation system has been developed for use in the electric utility industry in which the generator collector and collector brushes, and the exciter commutator and commutator brushes are eliminated. The basic difference between this system and its predecessors is an a-c exciter mounted on the same shaft as the generator field. This innovation introduces a much shorter exciter time delay due to the fact that a 420-cycle a-c exciter has replaced the conventional d-c exciter which is inherently slower. The smaller time delays make the system easier to stabilize and improve the over-all system response."
"A METHOD of electric energy production cost calculation has been developed for use in the solution of a simulation problem by digital computers. Several new features have been incorporated to improve the flexibility as compared to previous methods without sacrificing accuracy. It constitutes one phase of a comprehensive system planning study which evaluates cost differences due to variations in types of peaking units, spinning reserve policies, unit outage rates, and use of pumped-storage hydro, as well as unit size, heat rate, location, etc."
"There is a great necessity for systematic planning in order to bring about integrated and effective world communication. Some of the important phases of this complex problem are discussed in this 2-part article."
"INSTRUMENTATION for recording turbine speed, eccentricity, expansion, and vibration is now widely used on large steam turbines, particularly those over 80,000 kw. Most previous instrument systems for these measurements utilized four individual ink-type recorders; hence, one objective in developing a new instrument system was to use fewer recorders, reducing the panel space required. In addition, a high degree of reliability, long life, and good accessibility for inspection and servicing were major objectives."
"Additional data on the field treatment of men who have been rendered unconscious by electric shock.1"
"Measurements have been made to demonstrate the feasibility of receiving moon-bounce signals approximately one fourth of the distance around the earth. This study will give information about the moon's motion and surface, as well as the Faraday rotation in the ionosphere."
"PHASE and line-to-ground faults for large networks can be economically determined on a medium-size digital computer using the methods discussed. A program has been written and tested on a 2,000-word IBM (International Business Machines Corp.) 650 computer. Similar programs could be written for other computers which have equal or greater storage capacity. The method presented uses the short-circuit tensor and symmetrical components with the same assumptions and basic data as is used for network analyzer studies. Negative impedances and mutual impedances are properly represented."
"A discussion of the nature and basic modes of communication from the point of view of the modern techniques of handling, generating, storing, and transmitting knowledge or information in its manifold forms. The article is presented in two parts."
"A CHARACTERISTIC is now available with a combination of magnetic amplifiers and transistors which heretofore has not been described. By a special utilization of this combination, an amplifier can be designed that has self-regulated output for variations in supply excitation. This characteristic is inherent to the circuitry and not accomplished by the addition of compensating networks."
"A MPLIFIERS and other dynamic systems can be classified as stable or unstable depending on the nature of their transient response. The stabilization problem for a feedback amplifier arises in the first place because of the presence of one or more of the roots of the characteristic equation in the right half of the complex frequency plane. It is useful, therefore, to consider the solution of the stabilization problem directly in terms of the transient response, rather than in terms of frequency response data such as gain and phase margins."
"A FULL WEEK of technical and social activities awaits those who attend the AIEE Summer General Meeting, on June 19–24, in Atlantic City, N. J. The Philadelphia, Pa., Section will act as host for this meeting at one of the country's foremost seaside resorts. Headquarters will he at the Chalfonte-Haddon Hall Hotels on the boardwalk."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"APPROXIMATELY 650 members and guests were registered for the AIEE Great Lakes District Meeting, held April 27–29, at Milwaukee, Wis. The theme of the meeting was “Controls — Pearl Street to Cape Canaveral.” Those attending included a number from Canada."
"THE AIEE South West District 7 Meeting was held in Houston, Texas, April 4–6, at the Shamrock-Hilton Hotel, The theme of the meeting was “Electricity — Pacemaker of Industrial Growth in the Great Southwest” and the 635 members who attended were presented with great evidence of that fact."
"ABOUT 225 engineers, students, and guests participated in the East Central and Allegheny-Ohio Valley District Meeting on April 11–14, 1960, in Charleston, W. Va., at the Daniel Boone Hotel."
"THE 1960 Nuclear Congress, an important event of common interest to virtually all engineers, was held at the Coliseum in New York City on April 4–8. The week-long meeting was sponsored by 28 engineering and scientific organizations, including the AIEE, and co-ordinated by the Engineers Joint Council. As in the past, the International Atomic Exposition was held in conjunction with the Congress."
"Through the co-operation of seven professional engineering societies, the 8th Annual Engineering Management Conference is being planned for September 15–16, 1960, at the Morrison Hotel in Chicago, Ill. The subject of the conteience will be “Managing Tomorrow.” More than 600 persons are expected to attend the conference."
"The first annual Joint Automatic Control Conference (JACC) will take place September 7–9 on the campus of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)."
"Special attention is directed to the fact that the names of Institute members who are considered eligible for the AIEE Lamme Medal to be awarded early in 1961, may be submitted by any member in accordance with section 1 of Article VI of the bylaws of the Lamme Medal Committee as follows:"
"THE United States' TIROS satellite, carrying the nation's most advanced space-borne television “eye” to study the world's weather, is the information-gathering element in a complex satellite-and-ground system developed for the U.S. Government by the Radio Corporation of America (RCA)."
"SECURITY WRAPS were removed recently from a radar development that should play an important role in deterring limited warfare — a side-looking radar that produces aerial maps of thousands of square miles of terrain per hour, night or day, in any weather in which man can fly. This radar, developed for the U.S. Air Force by Texas Instruments, Inc. (TI), gives United States field commanders near-photographic up-to-the-minute information on troop and material movements well behind aggressor front lines, and pin points targets scattered over wide areas."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Development of a very rugged television camera, built to withstand weather, shock, vibration, noise, salt spray, dust, and other extremes of environment without an auxiliary protective housing has been announced by Dage Television Division of Thompson Ramo Wooldridge Inc., Michigan City, Ind."
"Scientists have developed an “electron gun” that removes one of the basic obstacles to extension of radar power and target detection range beyond present limits."
"A DESIGN ANALYSIS of corner-reflector antennas has been carried out by the National Bureau of Standards (NBS) Bouldei (Colo.) Laboratories under the sponsorship of the U.S. Air Force. The results of this evaluation by H. V. Cottony and A. C. Wilson of the Bureau's Central Radio Propagation Laboratory provide comprehensive and detailed information on designing high-performance, economical corner reflectors."
"MARKING 100 years of Army signals on June 21, I960, the U. S. Army Signal Corps celebrates a century of service to the Army and the Nation."
"A nuclear research reactor will go critical on September 30 at the Austrian Atomic Energy Research Center now being completed at Seibersdorf, on the outskirts of Vienna, Austria. The announcement was made recently by Dr. M. J. Higatsberger, executive director of the Austrian Atomic Research Organization."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"A discussion of some of the major problems and opportunities in engineering education facing the Institute. A new operating group or National Division, allied with the Education Committee, is urged to draw into activity the many willing members for whom there is no place within the present scope of the Education Committee."
"THERE IS a continuing practical need for antennas which radiate a pattern that is omnidirectional in azimuth, but which have a specified vertical pattern. Page1 proposed that a circular array with a central element be used for this purpose, but his design requires that all of the elements of the array be driven. Here a method will be described of exciting such an array by means of only one driven element."
"General characteristics of electric propulsion systems for space vehicles, the energy sources and conversion efficiencies available, projected powerplant weights, and some of the various schemes for generating the ion and plasma jets. Also included are results of experimental units and their feasible range of application."
"THE ADVENT of silicon semiconductor rectifier applications to large electrochemical lines has developed application problems heretofore not significant. The majority of existing potlines have mercury-arc rectifiers as a source of d-c power. In general a single a-c breaker will feed the entire potline rectifier group. Load tests in the field have been made which show that the most satisfactory method of removing a rectifier line from service is to trip the master a-c breaker, removing a-c power simultaneously from all units. The potline current will then decay through the mercury-arc tubes and the rectifier transformers, dividing between paralleled units."
"An improved technique for determining the temperature distribution in arc discharge has been developed. By use of this method, a direct record may be obtained from the spectral intensities and the need for a photographic record is eliminated."
"Among the problems related to world-wide communication discussed in the second part of this article are the length factor, transmission delay, distortion, noise, switching, and signaling."
"THE USE of bundle conductors for power transmission was first proposed by P. H. Thomas in 1909. The electrical characteristics of bundle conductors were then recognized to be superior in many respects to the characteristics of comparable single conductors. However, it was also known at that time that bundle conductors had higher initial costs and a more complex mechanical structure than single conductors. Therefore, no significant applications of this new concept were made in the next 40 years, although in 1931 C. A. Boddie proposed a 500-kv line with four conductors in a bundle. As a result of extensive investigations made in the last 10 years of the electrical and mechanical characteristics of bundle conductors, many transmission lines have been and are being built all over the world utilizing this type of construction."
"THE ANALYSIS of solid-rotor synchronous machines presented previously1 is extended in three ways: (1) by expressing the results of the analysis in a more convenient form; (2) by presenting additional numerical results; and (3) by outlining a new analytical attack."
"This article presents, in general terms, the typical moment of inertia values and speed-torque characteristics of centrifugal pumps and compressors which occur during normal starting periods and immediately following momentary voltage failures to the driving motors."
"THE most generally adopted systems of oil-preservation, for large high-voltage transformers have been: (1) the oil-conservator system, in which the oil level surface is at constant atmospheric pressure; and (2) the gas-pressure system, in which the upper part of the transformer tank is maintained under a positive gas pressure which is allowed to vary up to approximately 8 pounds per square inch, as the oil volume varies with temperature."
"Concluding article on the nature and basic modes of communication from an engineering point of view."
"MANY analytical studies directed at the predetermination of output characteristics of a-c servomotors have been predicated on the assumptions of constant source impedance and sinusoidal excitation. Under these assumptions, the method of symmetrical components serves admirably, particularly when steady-state characteristics are desired, and in cases where the duration of the mechanical transients makes the electrical transients insignificant."
"ASTATIC ANALYSIS of the thermoelectric generator is necessary in order to specify the electrical loading condition for maximum energy conversion efficiency and to determine the corresponding efficiency. All previous writers on the subject have assumed that the temperatures of the thermal energy source and sink are fixed. This article is concerned with static performance of a thermoelectric generator which operates between a thermal source and a thermal sink having nonzero thermal resistances. This case of non-ideal thermal sources, in which the junction temperatures depend upon the rates of heat flow from the source and to the sink, becomes of greater importance as the conversion efficiency of the thermoelectric generator is increased."
"A telemetering system for veterinary research dealing with stomach pressure of ruminant animals is described. The system, consisting of a transmitter, receiver, and recorder, has worked satisfactorily with an animal in a 4-aere enclosure, and greater ranges are anticipated."
"MAGNET wire is probably the most basic component of electric equipment. With the advent of nuclear power and the application of electric apparatus in a radiation ambient, it becomes important to determine the capabilities of electrical materials in a radiation ambient as well as the effect of irradiation on the engineering properties of the material. While there are relatively abundant sources of information on the mechanical property changes induced in insulation by high-energy radiation, there is comparatively little information on the induced electrical property changes."
"THE 1960 Pacific General Meeting of the AIEE will be held in San Diego, Calif. Technical sessions are scheduled for Tuesday, August 8, through Friday, August 12. Headquarters for the meeting will be in the El Cortez Hotel. The registration desk will be open Monday afternoon and evening preceding the start of the technical sessions on August 9."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"PROVIDENCE, R. I., was the locale of the AIEE North Eastern District Meeting, held May 2–4 at the Sheraton-Biltmore Hotel. About 360 members and guests attended the 3-day meeting, the theme of which was “Electricity — Key to the Sixties.”"
"AN attendance of 282 was recorded for the 3rd Annual AIEE-ASME Railroad Conference, held April 20–21 at the Penn-Sheraton Hotel in Pittsburgh, Pa."
"THE 6th Annual Conference on Electrical Engineering as applied to the Pulp and Paper Industry was held April 21–22 in the auditorium of the Dan McCarty Hall on the University of Florida campus. This conference was attended by 160 ranking electrical engineers from the mills and allied industries."
"AN inaugural address by R. W. Sorensen (HM '54), professor emeritus of electrical engineering, California Institute of Technology, was the feature of the first meeting of the newly organized Channel Counties Subsection of the Los Angeles Section, held April 27, in Santa Barbar."
"F. D. Braddon, creator of the gyrocompass that guided the atomic submarines USS Nautilus and. USS Skate under the ice cap of the North Pole, was honored May 4 at Franklin Hall in Philadelphia, Pa., by four of the nation's leading engineering societies. He received the Elmer A. Sperry Award for outstanding contributions to the field of transportation."
"Six young engineers have been selected by Tau Beta Pi for graduate fellowship awards in 1960–61."
"This year's Steinmetz Memorial Program address was delivered by Dr. L. M. Gilbreth, internationally known industrial engineer and management consultant. Dr. Gilbreth's talk, entitled “Management and Men,” was carried on television by Station WRGB, Schenectady, N. Y., on Saturday evening, April 23."
"THIS IS “VSMF — THE MICROFILM CATALOG FILE” which will save engineers and purchasing agents millions of hours a year by reducing by 90% the amount of time they spend searching for product information. The system was developed by the Technical Services Division of Rogers Publishing Company, Denver, Colo., in co-operation with Recordak Corporation, a subsidiary of Eastman Kodak."
"INASMUCH as the United States Strategic Air Command's main function is command and control of an air force which is scattered all over the globe and since that control is at Offutt Air Force Base near Omaha, Nebr., an essential phase of the whole operation is communication between the command post at Offutt and bases throughout the world."
"Radio astronomers of the California Institute of Technology announced recently that they have established almost conclusively the existence of a Van Allen radiation belt on the planet Jupiter. The belt is about 200,000 miles above the surface of the planet, which itself is about 85,000 miles in diameter."
"Metallurgical Society of AIME, Conference on Response of Metals to High Velocity Deformation, July 11–12, Stanley Hotel, Estes Park, Colo. AIME, 29 W. 39th St., New York 18, N. Y."
"A new concept in mobile long-range radar design has been announced by the General Electric Company (GE), according to J. J. Farrell, general manager of the company's Heavy Military Electronics Department."
"A system designed to give continuous physiological information on pilots in jets or other aircraft as well as radio this information back to earth in numerical form, has been successfully tested at the Air Force Missile Development Center (AFMDC), Holloman AFB, N.M., by AFMDC's Aeromedicai Field Laboratory."
"Economical new sonar equipment, which is powered by standard flashlight batteries, has been jointly designed by Stromberg-Carlson-San Diego and the U.S. Navy Electronics Laboratory for use by frogmen to give them “eyes” underwater. Stromberg-Carlson, with headquarters in Rochester, N. Y., is a division of General Dynamics Corporation."
"Space-age technology has made possible the first practical emergency calling system for highways, it was revealed recently by Hoffman Electronics Corporation, as it unveiled the “safety satellite,” a miniature transmitter that uses sunlight as its power source-just as do United States satellites now in orbit."
"One of the largest long-range operational search radars in the world is in final installation stages at Montauk Air Force Station, Montauk, L.I., N.Y., the home of the 773D Radar Squadron."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Some of the considerations which underlie the proposed revision of the 1946 Model Law for the registration of Professional Engineers are discussed."
"A discussion of the effect of space transportation problems upon the system design engineer, the role of reliability, and the contribution that the support engineer can make through use of computer-controlled test and checkout from factory to launch. In addition, the postlaunch use of prelaunch data will be discussed."
"THE PRESENT pilot-wire protective systems for transmission lines employing leased pilot-wire circuits are an outgrowth of conventional differential protective systems for other types of electric apparatus. Thus, these line-protective systems are characterized by the fact that the pilot wires are part of the differential connection between the current transformers at the line ends. The pilot wire has distributed shunt capacitance as well as series resistance, with the result that when these parameters reach sufficient magnitude, attenuation and undesirable phase shifts occur in the pilot-wire circuit. Thus, the system may be prevented from functioning correctly under certain operating conditions."
"Instead of developing more sophisticated wireless techniques to exploit the shrinking radio communications spectrum, it would be wise, the author believes, to ponder the advantages of the G-Line system, which utilizes existing pole lines, as an r-f carrier, both for its economy and operational characteristics."
"MANY are familiar with raster patterns, particularly the example seen on the face of television receivers. In order to present the most picture information with least bandwidth, such regular raster patterns are stabilized by synchronizing signals, derived by subdividing the frequency produced by a piezoelectric crystal stabilized oscillator. However, the simplicity of using an independent, stable oscillator for each of the vertical and horizontal deflection waves has been appealing. This was especially so for the extensive circuitry and subdivision needed to furnish the high-speed scans and quadruple interlace required when Avion-Alexandri carried out a U.S. Air Force RADC contract to pursue the experiments in electronic image processing done at the National Bureau of Standards.1"
"Steps taken in providing toll facilities for a controlled switching point in the nation-wide telephone dialing system are outlined. Among items to be considered are the number and lengths of calls, the length of time a call is held, the point called, and the anticipated economic growth."
"THE component units of an insulator string do not carry equal voltages when the string is in service, because of stray capacitances from each unit of the string to line and to ground. The voltage across a particular unit in a string may be determined by placing a calibrated spark gap across that unit and noting the total string voltage required to make the gap spark. Obviously, the presence of the gap should not change the potential distribution of the string by introducing capacitance or ionization. Fig. 1 shows the potential distribution curves for strings of 18 and 21 units, and it can be seen that the line end units are the most highly stressed. The voltage across these units can be reduced by fitting grading rings at the line end of the string, which increase the capacitance of these units to the line. Several shapes of grading ring have been used, but probably the most common is that shown in Fig. 2. Experiments have demonstrated that with this form of ring, the best position is as high, relative to the string, and as close to it as is practicable. This fact is also of appreciable significance in the design and positioning of grading rings of various other shapes."
"The digital computer signal program described aids railroad management in the selection of proper siding locations and signal spacing and permits the evaluation of the effects of possible changes in right-of-way signal equipment or train schedules."
"FURTHER BIL reductions will result as more is learned of switching surges and as lightning arrester protective levels are improved. For system voltages of 230 kv and above, it appears likely that the ultimate reduction in BIL will be in the order of 50% of the fully insulated value. This reduction is equivalent to “4-steps-down” although this nomenclature is not very precise and is used only in the absence of a better one. With 50% BIL reduction, the transformer low-frequency test is in the range of 1.5 to 1.7 times maximum line-to-ground voltage, which appears to be a reasonable minimum ratio."
"Recent advances in naval undersea warfare have brought increased emphasis to the measurement and reduction of even the very low-level d-c magnetic fields which Naval ships may produce. A description is presented of one part of the U. S. Navy's current effort in this area, a new Magnetic Field Facility at the Navy's Engineering Experiment Station in Annapolis, Md."
"In static d-c to a-c converters employing a saturating transformer with rectangular hysteresis-loop core material in conjunction with two switching transistors (magnetic-coupled multivibrators), the oscillation frequency is linearly proportional to the d-c supply voltage. This fact is significant with regard to telemetering-transducer applications. However, the relation between d-c input voltage and frequency of the square-wave output voltage is quite unfavorable in those cases; e.g., design of test circuits for magnetic amplifiers, where it is necessary to vary the oscillation frequency of the magnetic-coupled multivibrator independently, without changing magnitude of the supply voltage."
"THE LAMME MEDAL, which we award today, is a significant reminder of some of the greatness that existed in the early days of the electrical manufacturing industry in the United States. Brilliant men with amazing foresight made use of their talents to revolutionize American industry and the living habits of the American people."
"IT WAS with some hesitation that I accepted the privilege of presenting a résumé of the career of the Medalist because I am certain of a number of men who have been more intimately associated than I with Dr. Kilgore's most recent engineering contributions. Still, in respect and admiration for his over-all accomplishments I can yield to none and, therefore, shall seek to refresh the memories of a few and to set forth for others some of his work leading up to this present event."
"APPRECIATE Dr. Calvert's kind words, for it was he who by encouragement and example got me off on the right foot as a beginning engineer. It is indeed a privilege to be awarded a medal for what I so thoroughly enjoyed doing in the first place. To be included with those who have been awarded the Lamme Medal by the AIEE is an honor greatly appreciated. I have known several of these recipients personally, and it seemed to me they greatly enjoyed their work and their contacts with others interested in their work. Mr. Lamme himself exemplified to the highest degree this interest in his profession and in his fellow engineers."
"THERMAL aging characteristics of wire enamels aged under conditions similar to those which may be expected in sealed liquid-filled transformers have been studied and found to be quite different from results obtained by aging the same enamels in air. Enamels which have shown only fair thermal aging characteristics in air in comparison to other enamels may rate very differently when aged in a sealed system with a limited amount of oxygen present. For example, Formex (General Electric registered trademark) wire enamel which has a short life in comparison to a terephthalate polyester when aged thermally in a circulating air oven is equal or superior to the terephthalate polyester when aged in a closed system under oil."
"An outline of some of the methods and procedures that are used to insure safe working conditions in radioactive work areas."
"DETECTION of coronary-artery disease has long been a serious medical problem. A well-known manifestation of this disease is a “heart attack,” in which an artery supplying blood to the heart-muscle is suddenly occluded. The severity of the attack depends upon the extent and rapidity of the disruption of blood supply; but all too often, this first indication of coronary-artery disease terminates rapidly in death."
"The method employed to determine the economic combination of generating units on the system of New York's Consolidated Edison Company is described."
"The text of an address by former US President Herbert Hoover to posterity was enclosed in the cornerstone vault of the new US$12 million United Engineering Center in New York on the afternoon of June 16 at the setting of the cornerstone. Mayor Robert Wagner, who delivered the principal address at the ceremony, said that New York is \"proud and fortunate to be known as the country's center of engineering activities.\" About 450 persons were present when the cornerstone was laid for the 20-story structure of steel and glass between 47th and 48th Streets at United Nations Plaza."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"ATLANTIC CITY, N. J., one of the nation's foremost seaside resorts, was the locale for the 1960 AIEE Summer General Meeting. The Chalfonte-Haddon Hall Hotel served as headquarters for the gathering which took place June 19–24. Approximately 2,000 engineers, their wives, and invited guests attended. There were 197 technical papers presented at 47 sessions."
"THE AIEE Section Delegates Conference was called to order by Chairman W. E. Scholz at 9:00 a.m. on June 21, I960, in the Rutland Room of the Chalfonte-Haddon Hall Hotels in Atlantic City, N.J. G. B. Schleicher was secretary."
"AT the 23rd Forum of Technical Committee Chairmen, progress was reported in the areas of reciprocal membership relations and a Joint AIEE-IRE (Institute of Radio Engineers) Standards Committee, the need to expand technical committee membership work, and the mailing of Institute periodicals. The forum, held on June 23, was opened by C. T. Hatcher, chairman of the Technical Operations Department, who explained that in the future there would be one technical vice president from each of the six Divisions on the Board of Directors."
"THE regular June Meeting of the Board of Directors was held on the last day of the 1960 Summer General Meeting with 26 of the present 30 voting members in attendance. Also present were the four Department Chairmen and seven Vice-Presidents-Elect."
"THREE MEETINGS of the AIEE Board of Directors were held in Seattle, Wash.; Chicago, 111.; and New York, N.Y. Two Executive Committee meetings were held in New York, N.Y., in place of Board meetings. Information regarding the more important decisions of the Board was given in various issues of Electrical Engineering."
"“Computers for Engineering and Power” is the theme of the 2nd Power Industry Computer Application Conferenee, to be held on November 9–11, 1960. at the Chase Hotel in St. Louis, Mo. Latest developments in computers for utility engineering and plant automation and control will be presented. The meeting is co-sponsored by the Power Division and Computing Devices Committee of the AIEE."
"THE Fall General Meeting, to be held in Chicago, lll., October 9–14, will score a “first” when AIEE takes over the famous Chez Paree for its annual Fall Frolics. The Chez Paree cabaret features such top flight names in its shows as Jimmy Durante, Danny Thomas, and Red Skelton."
"AGAINST flame and roar of Saturn's huge 30-million-hp super-booster is the scientist who directs computation of test-firing results, Dr. Helmut Hoelzer, with a model of the new IBM 7090 computer that will enable his space-team associates to explore new areas of rocket engine research. Dr. Hoelzer is director of the Computation Division at Marshall Space Flight Center, Huntsville, Ala., where this test of Saturn's 8-engine super-booster took place recently. IBM 7090 will apply the most powerful computing ability in the United States space program to analysis of rocket vibration, heat transfer, and dozens of other elements."
"A PORTABLE power supply representing one of the first practical military applications of fuel cells-devices that convert chemical energy directly to electricityis being developed by General Electric Company (GE)."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"ANOTHER MILESTONE in space-toearth communications was achieved when Radio Corporation of America (RCA) tubes powered the first radio signals of a new “voice” of the Pioneer V planetoid back to earth from a distance of 8,001,000 miles."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The nature of the lower management role in development and research work is clarified and some of the attributes necessary to a job which combines administrative and technical elements are discussed."
"A DUAL-MODE servomechanism is an automatic control system that combines two separate and distinct modes of operation in a manner that makes the over-all system superior to a system utilizing either of the modes alone. The particular mode of operation at any time is selected to make use of the best features of each mode under the given operating conditions and, if possible, to eliminate the undesirable features of each mode."
"WITH THE TREND toward reducing the size of electric equipment for a given rating, the electrical insulation is being operated closer to its maximum thermal and electrical capabilities. Therefore, the need for functional evaluation of electrical insulation prior to its use in the field to assure good performance of the equipment has become more important. Prior to functional testing of a complete insulation system within the equipment, it is necessary to evaluate the various component materials. The insulating varnish which is a part of the insulation system is being evaluated in industry by two different methods. One method is known as the “Proof Test Procedure” and the other “Breakdown Test Procedure.” These tests can be of value only if they provide a truly adequate basis for temperature classification of varnishes. The tests should be accurate and reproducible, and there should be a reasonable correlation between the temperature limitation of the varnish as determined by these tests and the thermal life of the varnish in an insulation system as measured by functional tests such as described in AIEE No. 510."
"Data from world-wide ionospheric and solar stations permit close observation of the changing state of the ionosphere so that the maximum usable frequency for radio communications between any two points in the world can be accurately predicted 3 months in advance."
"The advent of data-processing equipment, combined with the recognition of the theoretical, engineering, and operating problems associated with information storage and retrieval have attracted individuals with diverse backgrounds from many professional fields. This article concerns one of the most controversial problems in this area: indexing."
"UNBLOCKING of the gate rectifier of the resetting core in self-saturating magnetic amplifier circuits may result in appreciably different response times and gains than would otherwise be expected. It is important to predict and avoid the occurrence of this phenomenon in the design of such circuits. An analytic prediction of this misbehavior of the gate rectifier requires the assumption of an analytic core function and rectifier function. Two core functions are chosen. Core Model A assumes a constant mmf (magnetomotive force) requirement for the resetting core when both cores are unsaturated and another constant mmf requirement for the resetting core after the gating core is saturated. Core Model B assumes a dynamic rectangular BH loop whose width is a constant plus a term proportional to the rate of change of flux. The nature of these core functions is shown in Fig. 1."
"Engineering curricula is broadening its base of science and mathematics to meet the rapid expansion of scientific knowledge. Increased emphasis is being placed on stimulating creative thinking. The void created by the growing shortage of engineers can be filled by better utilization and upgrading of engineering technicians."
"SILICON RECTIFIERS have been used for several years to make brushless d-c excited rotating-field synchronous generators. The induced field current and voltage during starting have made similar brushless synchronous motors impractical. The operation and performance of a new brushless synchronous motor, made practical by the development of high-current silicon-controlled rectifiers, are described here. All sliding and mechanical type contacts have been eliminated. The synchronizing function and pull-out protection are automatically provided by a simple static circuit which uses two silicon controlled rectifiers and zener diodes. The new motor can be started like a squirrel-cage induction motor with a standard full- or reduced-voltage starter. The adjustable power factor correction of the conventional synchronous motor is retained."
"The economic and technological feasibility of the home generation of electric power by means of the photovoltaic conversion of solar energy is examined in the light of extensive solar insolation data and advances in solar cell technology."
"DATA TRANSMISSION can generally use with economy portions of the extensive common-carrier plant set up for telephony. However, this plant has been largely equalized for amplitude response and not for phase, because of the insensitivity of the ear to phase distortion. Thus, it is important to consider effects of phase and delay distortion on the data signal."
"A unique design makes tap joints on high-voltage cables practical and economical"
"It is apparent that some means of alleviating the burden on our supply of fossil fuel is a necessity. The extensive research effort required and some of the major problems involved in the development of practicable direct energy-conversion systems are described."
"WITHIN the past few years, there have been a number of interesting papers relating to the characteristics of power cable shielding, covering both theoretical and experimental work being done in this field. At the laboratory of the Simplex Wire & Cable Company, it was felt that added knowledge of the phenomena involved might be obtained if experiments were conducted in order to determine the electrical characteristics of cables with different types of shielding. Hence, a comprehensive laboratory investigation was undertaken in which the parameters of resistance, inductance, and capacitance of such cables with variations in shielding were measured at high frequencies, using techniques which, in general, might permit the simulation of surge conditions."
"SYNTHESIS of real or imaginary transfer functions — that is, the synthesis of filters with even (symmetric) or odd (antisymmetric) impulse responses — has both theoretical interest and practical value. Realization is possible only within a time lag T, and requires a delay element filter with a finite memory of 2T."
"THE Fall General Meeting of the AIEE will be held October 9–14, I960, in Chicago, 111., with headquarters at the Morrison Hotel. The entire facilities of the Morrison Hotel will be occupied during the meeting."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE Recognition Awards Committee has recommended that four AIEE Awards be presented to three AIEE members and one nonmember at the Fall General Meeting of the AIEE in Chicago, 111., on October 10, 1960. The awards and their recipients are as follows."
"A CONFERENCE on problems of power generation and transmission, sponsored by two of the nation's leading engineering societies will be held in Philadelphia, Pa., September 21–23, 1960, according to an announcement by the AIEE and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME). More than 800 engineers and executives concerned with power generation for either utility companies or industrial plants are expected to attend the National Power Conference, which will be held in the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel."
"“ELECTRICAL Technology Paces Petroleum Progress” is the theme for the 7th annual Electrical Conference on the Petroleum Industry, which will be held September 25–28, 1960, at the Skirvin Hotel, Oklahoma City, Okla."
"MORE than 1,000 men in the engineering management field are expected to attend the 8th Annual Engineering Managemen Conference at the Morrison Hotel in. Chicago, 111., on September 15–16, 1960. This important conference is sponsored by seven major professional engineering so cieties — AIEE, American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical and Petroleum Engi neers, American Society of Civil Engineers, American Society of Mechanical Engi neers, American Institute of Industrial Engineers, Institute of Radio Engineers and American Institute of Chemical Engineers."
"THE First Pan American Congress on Engineering Education, sponsored by the Pan American Federation of Engineering Societies (UPADI), will be held September 12–17, 1960, in Buenos Aires, Argentina."
"A NEW TECHNIQUE of arranging atoms of one material on another enables scientists to “grow” electronic components. Right: Typical epitaxial growth on the (100) Silicon substrate (350X)."
"A ONE-EYED ROBOT with powerful claw-like pincers is being created to perform chores 2,000 feet deep in the ocean."
"Machine Tool Exposition, Sept. 6–16, International Amphitheatre, Chicago, 111. National Machine Tool Builders' Association, 2139 Wisconsin Ave., N. W. Washington 7, D. C."
"Scientists at the Westinghouse Research Laboratories have advanced a new basic explanation for the corrosion of iron which is estimated to waste some $6 billion to $7 billion per year in the United States alone. Westinghouse researchers Dr. E. A. Gulbransen and T. P. Copan suggest for the first time that the true culprits are hydrogen ions, or protonsone of the basic building blocks of matter."
"A “three-way-stretch” railroad car is undergoing tests to prove that its unique cushioning action is more than adequate to transport and launch the Minuteman intercontinental ballistic missile."
"A new low-power nuclear assembly designed to study the nuclear characteristics of General Dynamics' high-temperature gas-cooled reactor (HTGR) has achieved its first chain reaction at the corporation's John Jay Hopkins Laboratory for Pure and Applied Science in San Diego, Calif., corporation officials announced recently."
"A total of 23 new switches, with high momentary current ratings, have been in stalled at the recently completed Consumers' Power 265,000-kw Dan E. Karn substation near Bay City, Mich. The plant was dedicated in June 1960. A second sim ilar 265,000-kw unit is now being installed."
"A new research tool that is giving astronomers previously unobtainable data may prove to be as great an advance over conventional astronomical photography as photography was over visual observations."
"Deep-penetration radar beams may soon help to unlock trapped oil reserves jellied in rock thousands of feet beneath the earth's surface."
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"It is the purpose of this article to give some of the past and present history of the major steps which have culminated in the recent decision of the Board of Directors to establish Institute Technical Groups and to discuss the Technical Group organization."
"A speculative survey is projected of the technological opportunities beckoning at the frontiers of knowledge in the realm of energy conversion. American industry is urged to venture its support, in spite of the considerable risks, for the rewards are substantial."
"Here, for the readers of Electrical Engineering, is a brief account of some of the less well-known works of Elmer A. Sperry, who was a charter member of the AIEE, the John Fritz Medalist in 1927, a founder of the Electrochemical Society, and namesake of the Elmer A. Sperry Award, of which AIEE is a co-sponsor."
"THE Société Nationale des Chemins de fer Francais (SNCF) covers 25,000 miles of route of which 4,000 miles are electrified: 3,000 miles in 1,500 volts d-c and 1,000 miles in 25 kv, single phase, 50 cps. These electrified lines now handle 50% of the total traffic."
"CONVENTIONAL automatic voltage control for a regulating transformer is not designed to detect and correct for fluctuations directly in a d-c line, yet close control of the voltage across the 40-kv rectifier output was required recently for a radar pulsing station. The problem was solved with the design of a new d-c sensing control using two high-gain transistor-magnetic bistable amplifiers and a varistor detector. The low-voltage tap on a bleeder-resistance bank across the 40-kv line is the link that made possible this method of voltage sensing."
"The constantly growing telephone toll traffic results in a corresponding growth in switchboard position requirements. Facilities and circuits introduced to alleviate this situation are discussed."
"Numerous problems are involved in developing effective measuring techniques for the evaluation of insulation of large-size machinery. Some observations, based on research being conducted in this field by a manufacturer in France, are presented."
"MOST of the extensively used teleprinters of today have mechanically operated cam-type distributors. Although these are quite satisfactory and reliable, a recent trend in the industry has been to develop electronic distributors. A distributor of this type has been developed at the Electrical Engineering Laboratory of the University of Roorkee, India. It uses eight cold-cathode thyratrons or trigger tubes connected as a ring counter. One of the tubes keeps glowing and maintains marking current in the line when the transmitter is idle. When a character is transmitted, the tubes fire one after another in a serial sequence. The timing pulses are derived from the 50-cycle mains supply. Although any fluctuation of the supply frequency will affect the output waveform, it has been seen that if the frequency variation is limited to 4%, a teleprinter receiver having a margin of 35% will function properly."
"THE OPERATION of a half-wave bridge magnetic servo amplifier, in which the load circuit includes the resistance and inductance of a servo motor control winding shunted by a tuning capacitor (Fig. 1), will be examined."
"The presence of static charges on teletypewriter paper tape and rolls may result in delays and jamming. Principles and features of a recently developed static eliminator utilizing a high-voltage discharge are discussed."
"TODAY, as never before, existing large commercial airports are undergoing expansion and rehabilitation, and new airports are being designed."
"The “bucking bronco” motor is a “relaxation oscillator.” It is part of a nonlinear system, and investigation of it gives insight into many problems in the nonlinear analysis of both electric and mechanical systems. The “bronco” is described from a physical viewpoint, through differential equations, in terms of an equivalent circuit and from an analog computer study."
"The electric controls for a conveyor system used in the automotive industry are described. Although the material presented relates to a particular type of conveyor system, many features of the control system may be used in other applications."
"Our newly elected president discusses three objectives toward which the Institute must work if it is to become more meaningful to a growing membership in a period of great expansion in science and technology."
"SAN DIEGO was host to the AIEE Pacific General Meeting and Aero-Space Transportation Conference held August 8–12, 1960, in the El Cortez Hotel. A well-arranged program comprised of 172 papers, many of which explored the barriers of outer space, was combined with two luncheons, a dinner and theater party, harbor cruise and Hawaiian luau, and a banquet and dinner dance, as well as inspection trips to the nearby industries. Twenty committees met during the 4 days of the meeting, and a busy program for the visiting ladies was arranged by Mrs. M. R. Marston, chairman of the Ladies Entertainment Committee. More than 850 members and guests attended the meeting."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"THE 2nd Power Industry Computer Aplication (PICA) Conference is planned for November 9–11, 1960, at the Chase Hotel in St. Louis, Mo. The theme of the conference is “Computers and Power — The Brains and Brawn of Industry.” More than 400 persons are expected to attend the conference."
"Relating the fundamentals of electrical insulation to practical application will be the purpose of two special technical sessions to be introduced in this year's National Conference on the Application of Electrical Insulation. This innovation, part of a technical program to be held at the Conrad Hilton Hotel, Chicago, 111., on December 5–8, 1960, will provide the basis for improved understanding and communication between the electrical design engineer and the marketer of electrical insulation materials. Discussions in this area will also be of considerable interest to students in the field of electrical engineering."
"THE “EAR” of the most sensitive voice radio receiver yet built is this horn-shaped antenna at the space communication research facility of Bell Telephone Laboratories in Holmdel, N.J. The cab at the small end of the horn houses the radio receiving circuitry and a ruby maser amplifier refrigerated to −456 F. The antenna, 50 feet long, is rotated by the upright wheel. It also rotates about the base so that it will be able to track fast-moving satellites anywhere in the sky."
"TWO space-borne radio beacons, each about the size and shape of an ordinary dinner plate and equipped with a halfounce radio transmitter no larger than a cigarette lighter, are sending back the signals that enable ground stations to track the Echo balloon satellite as it circles the earth. The radio beacons were specially developed by the Radio Corporation of America (RCA) for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)."
"15th Midwest Quality Control Conference, Oct. 14–15, Broadview Hotel, Wichita, Kans. H. K. Mitchell, 602 South Brookside, Wichita 18, Kans."
"A deep-space vehicle operating under full thrust for the 2 years necessary to carry it to the planet Jupiter with enough residual power to operate its instruments for several years thereafter, was revealed recently by a Lockheed Missiles and Space Division scientist."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"SEPTEMBER 14, 1960, marked the dedication of a new ehv (extra-high-voltage) cable testing station at Cornell University. Inasmuch as the utility load doubles about every 8 years, rights of way become more difficult to obtain, and station units are larger, the need to develop 500-mva cable was foreseen in 1953."
"HEAT-RUN DATA have been obtained on an underground cable test installation, located in the side of a thoroughly drained sand hill sloping to the west and protected from local replenishment of soil moisture by the black-top cover of a company parking area. Selection of this location for an underground test site was based upon the existence of topography and soil characteristics typical of a marginal field condition from a soil-thermal point of view."
"The history and development of the wire-communications plant of this railroad, including teleprinter, telephone, data, and specialized facilities, are presented."
"Reasoned argument is made against the indiscriminate use of transistor or other “static” elements replacing electromechanical relays without making a thorough reliability analysis. In a particular application, an aircraft protective panel design using relays as logic elements is herein shown to be more reliable than a particular equipment transistorized design."
"THE purpose herein is to present a simplified method of calculating the voltage across the line insulation for a stroke terminating on the tower top and zero tower footing resistance based on the theory and equations derived in two previous papers. For purposes of analysis, the stroke has been resolved into two components: (1) a linear-front flat-top wave of positive charge and associated current that flows upward along the axis of the downward leader at a constant velocity less than that of light, and (2) a linear-front flat-top wave of negative charge and current which is fed into the tower and ground-wire combination."
"TONE operation of electronic switching centers is the natural outgrowth of 4-wire operation of communication systems using a radio link. The radio circuit may be anywhere between the subscriber and the switching center or between switching centers."
"Overcrowded conditions within the radiotelephone portions of the lower-frequency amateur radio bands often make communication with low signal levels impossible because of interfering signals or noise. A design is presented, based on an analysis of the human voice, of a narrow-bandwidth high-intelligence speech amplifier for amateur and possible general use."
"A program for the calculation of loss formula coefficients has now been written using an approach which is not limited by analog techniques and which utilizes the unique capabilities of digital computers. The program provides a means for proceeding automatically from one step to the next during the calculation as well as greatly simplifying the preparation of the necessary data."
"The use of a radio-carrier system in conjunction with an open-wire carrier system has provided an isolated island community with a modern, reliable telephone service."
"A MAJOR problem in the field of telephone traffic engineering is the gathering and summarization of usage data. This is also the first step in the process of providing the telephone subscriber with the proper type and quantity of telephone facilities to give a satisfactory grade of service, which is the general responsibility of the traffic engineer. Prior to the introduction of the Traffic Usage Recorder (TUR), sufficient accurate usage data was most difficult to obtain."
"A device is described that continuously monitors the pulse rate of an individual on the operating table. This aids the anesthesiologist in keeping a constant check on the condition of the heart, a task that was formerly impossible."
"Conventional ignitrons have required extensive improvements to increase their current and voltage ratings to the high values required for controlled nuclear fusion research. A 4-year program to develop these improved tubes and the results achieved are described."
"THE AIEE has proposed the Functional Plan as a step to develop sound organization for the engineering profession."
"THE Recognition Awards Committee of the AIEE is seeking nominees for five AIEE awards, in the fields of: Electrical Engineering Education Transmission and Distribution Telecommunication Electrical Measurement Electronics These awards will be made October 15–20, 1961, at the Fall General Meeting in Detroit, Mich."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"FUNDS have been made available for one or more Charles LeGeyt Fortescue Fellowship for 1961–62. The amount of the award has been fixed at $2,500. The awards are made to postgraduate students in the field of electrical engineering who have received their baccalaureate degrees from duly recognized technical schools in the United States or Canada."
"The 2nd Symposium on Engineering Aspects of Magnetohydrodynamics (MHD) will be held at the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa., on March 9–10, 1961. This meeting is sponsored by AIEE, the Institute of the Aeronautical Sciences, the Institute of Radio Engineers. The program is concerned with plasmas in the presence of magnetic field and, in particular, with the engineering aspects of this subject."
"The 5 th National Symposium on Global Communications, to be known as GLOBECOM V, will be held May 22–24, 1961, at the Hotel Sherman, Chicago, 111. The conference will be sponsored by the AIEE and the Professional Group on Communications Systems of the Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE)."
"MORE than 800 scientists and engineers from industry, universities, and Government participated in a Conference on Standards and Electronic Measurements, held June 22–24 at the Boulder (Colo.) Laboratories of the National Bureau of Standards (NBS). Sponsored by the AIEE, Institute of Radio Engineers, and the NBS, the 3-day meeting provided an opportunity for the exchange of information and ideas concerning the most recent developments in the field of electronics and measurements."
"The AIEE Western Appliance Technical Conference will be held November 7 at the Biltmore Hotel, Los Angeles, Calif."
"The 6th Annual Conference on Magnetism and Magnetic Materials, sponsored by the AIEE and the American Institute of Physics, will be held at the Hotel New Yorker, New York City, from November 14 to 17. As in the past, this conference is expected to attract more than 1,000 engineers, physicists, chemists, and metallurgists from all parts of the world to discuss fundamental and applied research in the field. About 160 technical papers, covering all phases of magnetism, are included in the program. Ten invited papers will be read by outstanding scientists from the United States, Japan, Holland, France, and England."
"Housing the departmental offices of electrical engineering and several of its laboratories, Dunstan Hall at Auburn University, Auburn, Ala., was dedicated October 14. Dunstan Hall is the first unit to be completed of a large expansion of the physical plant at Auburn University."
"TWO “orbital scatter” belts (one east-west over the equator and one north-south over the poles) will relay radio messages over very long distances in communication system being developed by MIT Lincoln Laboratory. The tiny metallic fibers (dipoles) in the belts will be hundreds of feet apart."
"A new digital flight trainer and research device called UDOFTT (Universal Digital Operational Flight Trainer, Tool) was demonstrated publicly for the first time recently when a “flame-out” emergency was introduced into a simulated Air Force F-100A Super Sabre jet flight by an instructor outside the cockpit."
"THE 500-pound Courier satellite now orbiting around the earth was built for the Department of Defense by Philco Corporation at its Western Development Laboratories with the help of approximately 43 principal subcontractors and more than 200 materials suppliers."
"National Warm Air Heating and Air Conditioning Association, Annual Convention, Nov. 14–17, Statler-Hilton Hotel, Cleveland, Ohio. Air-Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute, 1346 Connecticut Ave., N.W., Washington 6, D.C."
"A new sound of time — a “microsonic” hum to replace the centuries-old ticking sound — was introduced recently in a new transistorized timepiece designed to make conventional wrist watches a thing of the past."
"A machine with the potential capability to supply a stream of gas at temperatures as high as 20,000 F and pressures as great as 15,000 psi has been devised by the Westinghouse Electric Corporation. The machine, an electric arc heater, can operate for sustained periods of time and at an extremely low level of gas contamination."
"Commissioner J. S. Graham, acting chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission (AEC), announced that the alternating Gradient Synchrotron (AGS) at Brookhaven National Laboratory, one of the world's two largest operating particle accelerators, ran for the first time July 29, 1960, producing at 4:15 p.m. a beam of protons at an energy of more than 30 billion electron volts (bev). This is the highest energy ever attained by a particle accelerator. Before reaching this energy, the AGS had run for about an hour at 24 bev."
"Development of a new photoemissive material that permits “electronic eyes” to operate at high temperatures was announced recently by the Westinghouse Electronic Tube Division."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement of available employment opportunities."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"SINCE the advent of Sputniks I and II, the barriers of outer space have been probed at an ever accelerating pace. In the conquest of outer space, many disciplines are involved such as Basic Science, Astronomy, Metallurgy, Transmission and Distribution, Electric Insulation and Nucleonics, Radio and Communication Systems, Solid State Devices, Nucleonic and Radiation Instrumentation. Instrumentation, material characteristics, accuracy, and capability of predictable control must achieve new levels to permit man to travel in outer space. Aerospace electricity and its related applications are receiving more emphasis and stature within the Institute and it is expected that this trend will increase. To keep all electrical engineers informed on the most up-to-date electrical engineering problems in outer space, the Aero-Space Transportation Committee has arranged a selection of papers for this special issue, “Electrical Frontiers of Space,” of Electrical Engineering."
"A brief description of space flight is presented from the perspective of the engineering disciplines. Main benefit accruing to mankind will be in the qualitative leap in scientific knowledge."
"Compared to other energy conversion devices, the thermopile is simple in construction, static, operable from several types of heat sources, and adaptable to various ambient conditions. Some design considerations for space, terrestrial, and marine applications are presented."
"A high-pressure cesium-vapor thermionic converter appears to be a promising source of power for space vehicles. On the basis of an analysis described in this article, it was found that a converter with cathode temperatures of 3,000 to 3,500 degrees Rankine will result in low system weight and high over-all efficiency."
"A design concept is presented which, under certain conditions, improves the efficiency of thermionic generators. The proposed concept envisages the application of a magnetic field perpendicular to the electrode surface. This applied field counteracts the adverse effect of the self-induced transverse magnetic fields present in large thermionic generators. In addition, the applied magnetic field may be used as a modulating device in order to generate an alternating current."
"Intense interest in thermionic conversion in the field of space power supplies rests on two inherent properties of this type of conversion process: (1) solar energy can be converted to electric energy without use of moving parts of any kind; and (2) diode anode can operate at temperatures between 600 and 1,500 K permitting efficient rejection of heat by radiation only. Diode has additional advantages of instant and repeatable start — stop capabilities."
"Successful orbit control requires electric propulsion systems capable either of frequent refueling and/or of very high specific impulse. The theory of the magnetogasdynamic (MGD) ramjet and the MGD rocket is developed and the power requirements as well as some of the design considerations are given. Practical problem areas are outlined and some of the present equipment is described."
"SEARCH COILS are the customary tools for industrial testing of magnetic fields. They have significant drawbacks, since the output is proportional only to changes in magnetic flux, and integration is necessary to obtain flux readings."
"The magnetohydrodynamic energy converter provides a means for converting some of the kinetic and thermal energy of a plasma directly into useful electrical work. A performance study of a constant-area channel in which the conductivity of the plasma depends on its local thermodynamic properties is described."
"The system described generates precise-frequency power from an unregulated shaft through use of a high-frequency variable-speed brushless generator, a semiconductor frequency changer, an output filter, and a voltage and frequency regulator."
"The study of cryogenics — the science concerned with very low temperature environments — is rapidly entering the realm of practicality. Some of the low-temperature phenomena pertinent to the field of electrical and electronic design are discussed."
"In this article, transient thermal envelopes induced within space vehicles by conditions external to the earth's atmosphere are considered. A simple method for predicting transient “thin” isothermal shell temperatures is presented."
"With the advent of solid-state devices and their susceptibility to destruction from transient impulses, there has been renewed interest in the subject of interference voltages. In this article, methods of controlling the coupling of transients into sensitive circuits are described."
"An organized plan for handling the problem of grounding, shielding, and filtering the electronic system for missiles and ground support equipment is presented. The result is a one-point ground for the complete system, with all ground loops open."
"A discussion is presented of the design and testing of the first experimental Transit satellite developed for measuring the precision of Doppler tracking, navigation tests, and geodetic determinations. Techniques developed will be employed in the prototype satellites for use in the Transit navigational system."
"THE METHODS of analysis and synthesis of linear feedback control systems have now reached such a state of perfection that the design of a system to meet any set of performance specifications should be a fairly simple matter. Unfortunately, no practical system can be completely linear and, therefore, the theory developed for linear systems applies only approximately to practical systems."
"DISCUSSIONS between American and European standards groups are currently directed toward adoption of uniform parameters for wet flashover and wet withstand tests. American published values are based on tests conducted with a spray water resistivity of 7,000 ohms per inch cube and a rate of precipitation of 0.2 inch per minute. The corresponding European test values are 10,000 ohms per centimeter cube (3,930 ohms per inch cube) and 3 mm per minute (0.118 inches per minute). Two recent papers have reported laboratory investigations relating the comparative influences of these factors.1, 2"
"Both moon and satellite relays offer feasible means to extend the range of global communications. Advantages and limitations of each relay are discussed, with the moon relay the slight favorite at our current level of technological development."
"A study is being conducted of problems in shielding manned vehicles from previously unknown radiations in space. Two areas of the radiation problem — Van Allen radiation and solar protons — are of major concern in this study."
"THE AIEE Winter General Meeting will be held January 29–February 3, 1961. Because of the large number of technical sessions covering all six technical divisions of the Institute, meetings will take place in both the Statler-Hilton and the Governor Clinton Hotels, New York, N. Y. As usual, the Statler-Hilton will be headquarters for the meeting."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"AMONG principal components in the mail-processing scheme at Providence, R. I.'s automated post office are facer-cancellers. Letters and cards are placed in proper “stamp down” position by a combination of photoelectric cells and inverting belts at a rate of 25,000 an hour. The “electric eye” system also determines whether stamp is on leading or following edge, separating mail on this basis for high-speed cancelling heads."
"THE ordinary background static heard when tuning in a radio program might someday conceal the presence of a military command being transmitted over a new broad-band communication system being developed and field tested by the General Electric Company's heavy military electronics department, Syracuse, N.Y."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering, All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Listing of the advertisers represented in this issue."
"This index covers all technical items that appeared in this periodical during the year."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"SIGNIFICANT PROGRESS in many fields of electrical engineering during the past year has been reported by 35 committees of the Institute's six technical divisions."
"A review of the factors that create the need for professionalism in engineering. Such status can only be achieved, as in the legal and medical professions, by the unselfish service and attention each man owes to his profession."
"Very little information is presently available on transistor junction temperatures for pulsed input waveforms. In the study described, a simple thermal model of a power transistor is assumed and a heat-flow analysis of the model, using Laplace transforms, is made."
"Relatively high energy per unit weight, high power density, and high reliability are among the basic advantages of electrochemical power sources, which are being developed for missile and space flight applications. These sources, particularly electrochemica fuel cells, are described and compared with other energy-conversion devices."
"CONTROL of railway traffic from a central location requires the transfer of large amounts of information between the central location and many points along the railroad. The number of wayside information points depends on the type of signaling installed."
"Under fault conditions, the flow of current to earth will result in possibly hazardous voltage gradients in and around substations. An analytical approach to this subject, based on a study by AIEE Working Group 56.1, has been developed."
"A NEW BASIS for rating power circuit breakers was proposed at the January 1954 AIEE Winter General Meeting by the Working Group on Methods of Rating Power Circuit Breakers. This group proposed that the making, latching, and interrupting current ratings of circuit breakers be combined into one rating, rated short-circuit current, having specified characteristics which a breaker shall be able to close, carry, and interrupt with any permissible delay in tripping on a predominantly resistive or inductive circuit. To compare these specified characteristics with the decrement rates for asymmetrical fault currents on high-voltage systems, a so-called X/R method has been developed and is intended for use as the basis for a simplified application procedure for power circuit breakers rated on the proposed new basis."
"A survey of the procedures of the European organization of the International Commission on Rules for the Approval of Electrical Equipment (CEE) and the activities of several European countries in the field of safety regulations. First-hand observations over the past 3 years and a summary of safety regulations activities in Canada and the United States are presented."
"THE ABSORPTION of reactive power by synchronous machines, particularly with low short-circuit ratio, can be difficult, and voltage control alone at the machine terminals cannot provide stable operation of the underexcited machines."
"Increased emphasis is being placed on cooperation between Great Britain and the United States in the investigation of insulating materials. Efforts made by two British organizations — the Electrical Research Association and the British Standards Institution — are described."
"THE AIEE Winter General Meeting to be held at the Statler-Hilton (meeting headquarters) and the Sheraton-Atlantic Hotels, New York, N. Y., January 31–February 5, 1960, will feature one of the largest technical programs in the history of the Institute. The social activities, for which the Winter General Meeting is well known, will again be outstanding. A group of varied and interesting inspection trips has been arranged, closely allied with the technical sessions."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The New York Times, New York, N. Y. (Wednesday afternoon, Thursday morning). A visit to the midtown Manhattan home of what is probably the most widely read newspaper in the world, The New York Times, will include a view of various devices in the communications room that make it possible to have news transmitted from all over the world. Visitors will see how the news is edited as well as the mechanical operations that are required before the finished paper is put on the street."
"THE 6TH NATIONAL Symposium on Reliability and Quality Control will be held January 11–13, 1960, at the Statler-Hilton Hotel in Washington, D. C. The symposium is sponsored jointly by the ALEE, the American Society for Quality Control (ASQC), the Institute of Radio Engineers (IRE), and the Electronic Industries Association."
"A TESTIMONIAL DINNER was given to W. A. Del Mar by friends of long standing in the cable industry. Mr. Del Mar is the first recipient of the William Martin Habirshaw Award for meritorious achievement in electrical transmission and distribution. The dinner was held at the Engineers' Club, New York, N. Y., November 18, 1959, with Herman Halperin acting as toastmaster."
"THE RECOGNITION AWARDS COMMITTEE of the AIEE is seeking nominees for five AIEE awards — in the fields of Electrical Engineering Education, Electrical Measurement, Transmission and Distribution, Electronics, and Telecommunication — to be made October 9–14, 1960, at the Fall General Meeting in Chicago, I11."
"THE ANNUAL REPORT of the Corporation and its Departments for the fiscal year October 1, 1958, to September 30, 1959, has been issued by United Engineering Trustees, Inc. (UET)"
"The AIEE Nominating Committee∗ will meet in the Boston Room, Statler-Hilton Hotel, New York, N.Y., 9:00 a.m., February 1, 1960, during the Winter General Meeting of the Institute, to nominate candidates for AIEE offices to be voted upon by the membership in the Spring of 1960. Representatives receive travel allowance. Alternates are required to attend only if called upon to serve in place of their representative."
"A partial program of sessions planned for the 1960 Nuclear Congress, to be held in the Coliseum, New York, N.Y., April 4–7, 1960, has been announced by Dr. Clarke Williams, chairman of the nuclear engineering department of the Brookhaven National Laboratory, Upton, N.Y., and chairman of the Nuclear Congress."
"The price of everything purchased today — whether it be clothing, food, housing, or an automobile — is higher, as the result of a steady increase over the years. Publications are no exception. Since the bimonthly publications were inaugurated in July and August of 1952, there has been a considerable inflationary increase in the costs of printing, paper, salaries, and overhead. Also, rapid advances in all phases of technology have resulted in an increased volume of technical material to be published in order to keep pace with the times. For example, when the bimonthly publications were inaugurated in 1952, the total annual volume in a compact format was 2,068 pages; whereas in the same compact format for the calendar year 1959, the total volume will be more than 3,500 pages."
"A COMPLETELY AUTOMATIC, centralized, electronic airlines reservations system known as SABRE has been developed by International Business Machines Corporation (IBM) for American Airlines after 6 years of joint research."
"USING electronic eyes and: ears linked to an automated nerve center, a plant protection system recently demonstrated by Minneapolis-Honeywell Regulator Company “not only can perform all the policing duties now handled by a staff of human guards in an industrial setup, but can perform them better,” J. E. Haines, company vice-president, said."
"The first 345,000-volt underground power cable manufactured in America was delivered recently to the Cornell University campus in Ithaca, N. Y. Manufactured in the Paterson, N. J., plant of The Okonite Company, a subsidiary of Kennecott Copper Corporation, this is one of a group of cables being supplied by four major manufacturers for a co-operative testing program with the country's largest utilities. A committee of the Associated Edison Illuminating Companies and the Edison Electric Institute is co-ordinating the program with Cornell's electrical engineering staff."
"Fish and, small game specimens, as well as samples of rain water, air, soil, milk, and vegetation will be collected and analyzed as part of the Nuclear Power Reactor Program of the Philadelphia Electric Company."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"Ten leading power companies have joined with Avco Corporation in a research project which could revolutionize the nation's electric power industry and effect a 25% increase in operating efficiency, it was announced recently by the participating companies."
"A RECENT EXHIBIT, entitled “Selected Treasures of the Henry Ford Museum and Greenfield Village,” at the Ford Museum in Dearborn, Mich., included the objects shown at the right as outstanding firsts in the communications field. F. R. Davis, curator of communications, holds the first radio tube patented by Dr. Lee de Forest in 1907. Other objects (above the tube and clockwise) are: the world's first practical typewriter, made by Remington in 1874; the first television apparatus developed by Dr. Charles Francis Jenkins in 1925, the first device to transmit and receive an image electronically; Thomas A. Edison's first mimeograph machine, patented in 1876 and forerunner of all the world's mimeograph machines and paper stencil duplicating processes; Hugo Gernsback's 1905 Telimco wireless set, the first home radio marketed in the world; and early iconescope developed by Dr. Vladimir Zworykin in 1940 which transmitted pictures electronically and made possible modern television; and Edison's first phonograph invented in 1877."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"This section contains complete multientry indexes covering the contents of Electrical Engineering for the calendar year 1959. It includes all special articles and authors, all news items, and all items published in Electrical Engineering on AIEE technical program papers, whether they appear in the form of a digest, essentially full text, or full text. The technical program papers are indexed also by both title and author."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Because of the rapidly changing nature of technology, today's approach to engineering education is more toward fundamental principles and less toward contemporary practice. In order to communicate fluently with tomorrow's graduate, industry must keep abreast of these changes in engineering curricula."
"THE DEVELOPMENT of carbon-film resistors since World War II has provided the electronics industry with a reasonably priced semiprecision resistor. Considerable effort has been devoted to determining the quality of these resistors, and minimum standards, such as those in Specification MIL-R-10509, have been established."
"INTEGRATORS of small direct currents and potentials are useful in a variety of applications such as measuring photographic exposure with photovoltaic cells, registering watt-hours derived from the d-c output of watt converters, both thermal and electronic, and integrating current consumption in electroplating."
"A discussion of present-day changes in the position of engineers in the United States, and an outline of the attitudes they must develop and strengthen to enhance their professional status."
"Because of economic and operational considerations, it was decided to depart from steam generation in making the latest addition to the Punta Gorda steam electric plant at Lake Maracaibo, Venezuela. Barge mounting of the gas turbine unit utilized provides mobility and flexibility."
"THE NONCONTACTING emissivity-free measurement of surface temperatures is a major problem in many industrial processes. In order to reproduce the temperature conditions that are found to give a satisfactory product, it is often desired to measure the surface temperature of metallic objects such as rolls or molds. The reliability of radiation pyrometers for these applications is frequently questionable for the following reasons: 1. The emissivity of highly polished surfaces is often uncertain and varying. 2. An error results from the absorption of radiation by gases or liquids interposed between the measuring element and the surface whose temperature is to be measured."
"Space communications pose a unique set of problems in line-of-sight transmission. Major ones include nonstationary terminals, the astronomical distances involved, and bandwidth restrictions consistent with power restrictions. There are also conflicting requirements of maximum reliability and minimum weight of equipment."
"THE INCREASED USE of high-pressure oil-filled pipe-type cable lines within the Commonwealth Edison Company prompted a re-evaluation of fault locating methods. Known measurement methods are inadequate for pipe-type cable lines."
"HOW LONG will you be “frozen” to an energized wire after the circuit is interrupted? Failure to utilize the correct answer in design might result in your being a victim the next time you inadvertently grasp an electric fence. Information on the probable length of time it takes a person to release his grasp of a wire after being subjected to currents above his “let-go” limit is important in establishing the minimum allowable “off” period for electric fences and is of concern to the ASA (American Standards Association) Sectional Committee on Electric Fences, C69. Death is to be an expected result should a victim suffer a sufficient number of shocks due to his inability to release his grasp of an electrified fence during the “off” period between consecutive shocks."
"ACCURATE TIME DELAYS are essential to both industrial and military control. Static devices presently available provide delays accurately and economically up to a few seconds. The emphasis on reliability in these fields has made it desirable that a static device be developed to generate long time intervals."
"A cable design based on an investigation made on a straight heat balance basis. New and useful data was uncovered through an approach which may prove of general interest to engineers."
"High-power single side band and independent side band transmitters together with their techniques augur the greatest growth possibilities since the inception of radiotelegraphy. This type of transmission will enable the industry to increase traffic at the same time that frequency occupancy is reduced. These are prime necessities with the upcoming low in the sunspot cycle."
"READING the advertising is an up-to-date postgraduate course in many branches of the electrical industry. Advertising tells you who makes what, where, and why. New and improved principles of design are illustrated, and the attendant advantages explained. Product applications are described which may suggest other possible applications toward the solution of difficult problems. Finally, in some cases, the employment opportunities advertised may pave the way toward more gainful employment in accordance with your desires, inherent ability, and aptitude."
"RECOMMENDATIONS for seven Division Prize Awards were approved by the AIEE Prize Awards Committee at its meeting on December 1, 1959. Two Student Prizes also were awarded, in addition to a prize award in the classification known as General Committees and Articles in Electrical Engineering."
"“Controls — Pearl Street to Cape Canaveral” will be the theme of the Great Lakes District Meeting in Milwaukee, Wis., on April 27–29, 1960. Co-ordinated with the technical papers will be plant inspection trips to the Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Company, Square “D” Company, Line Material Company, Wisconsin Electric Power Company, and A-C Spark Plug Company. The technical papers and trips will convey in words and actual observations the control engineering influence in industry, utilities, communications, missiles, domestic appliances and machine tools, and also in rotating machinery."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"A universally applicable guide tor the recruiting of engineering college graduates has been published by the American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE)."
"A TECHNICAL PROGRAM of unusual scope and interest awaits AIEE members who attend the Southwest District 7 meeting, to be held in Houston, Texas, April 4–6, 1960. Headquarters for the gathering will be the Shamrock Hilton Hotel."
"THE DEVELOPMENT of AIEE's interests in space science and the specific areas of electrical engineering where it should lend support will be the subject of the first conference on Electrical Engineering in Space Technology, to be held at the Baker Hotel, Dallas, Texas, April 11–13, 1960, in collaboration with the Institute of Radio Engineers and the American Rocket Society."
"A NEW CONCEPT in high-speed computation has been disclosed by Aeronutronic, a division of Ford Motor Company, Newport Beach, Calif., with introduction of BIAX, a magnetic computer element which is capable of multimegacycle performance in logical networks and memory arrays."
"A SUPERSENSITIVE television camera tube which will widen the scope of blackand-white television, and which promises to extend the general application of color television has been developed by the General Electric Company (GE)."
"An electronic generator with no moving parts, designed to convert the heat of a rocket exhaust directly to electric power to run steering controls of a rocket or guided missile, was announced recently by the Radio Corporation of America (RCA) and the Hunter-Bristol Division of Thiokol Chemical Corporation."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"LARGEST of the 22 wind tunnels and test cells at the U.S. Air Force's Arnold Engineering Development Center in Tullahoma, Tenn., is the propulsion wind tunnel comprised of a transonic unit now in operation and a supersonic circuit nearing completion."
"Transcontinental Public Facsimile (“Wirefax”) service for the use of the general public and other users has been inaugurated by Western Union. It is now possible for customers in New York, N.Y.; Washington, D.C.; Chicago, 111.; Los Angeles, Calif.; and San Francisco, Calif., to give material such as full page communications, letter-size documents, drawings and other recorded data to the telegraph company for same-day transmission and delivery in exact facsimile of the material offered."
"The National Bureau of Standards (NBS), as announced in the NBS Technical bulletin, October 1959, has decided to follow the recommendations of the International Committee on Weights and Measures to use new prefixes for denoting multiples and submultiples of units. The Committee adopted the prefixes at its meeting in Paris, France, in the Fall of 1958. In addition to the 8 numerical prefixes in common use, which are given in the accompanying table, the Committee expanded the list by adding the 4 prefixes marked with an asterisk. Thus, for example, 10−12 farad is called 1 picofarad, and is abbreviated 1 pf."
"An “Image Intensifier,” described as “an exceptional breakthrough” in the field of optical imagery, has been developed in Britain."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"The Institute looks toward its Student Branches as the logical source of future Section members. In order to promote student interest, the AIEE must encourage Student Branch activities that can compete on their own merits for the limited free time available to electrical engineering students."
"THE BROWNLEE PROJECT is the first step in the comprehensive development of the middle stretch of the Snake River between Weiser, Idaho, and the upstream end of the Hells Canyon gorge. The ultimate development will consist of three projects, developing a total head of 602 feet with an initial installed machine capacity of 822,000 kw. A Federal Power Commission license was issued August 4, 1955, for the construction of the three projects. Design drawings were approved by the Commission on November 3, 1955, and construction was started at Brownlee a week later. Within the short space of 32 months, the first unit was pumping power into the interconnected systems of the Northwest Power Pool At the peak of the construction effort, 3,400 workers and $7 million worth of heavy construction equipment were used."
"A PHASE-INTERCHANGE FAULT on a power system occurs when two of the three conductors are interchanged. If the portion of the power system involved is a radial branch that has a voltage source at only one end, the consequences are reversed phase rotation in the branch beyond the point of phase interchange. Although the physical consequences may be serious, the calculation of the resulting currents and voltages are relatively simple. If the portion of the power system involved has voltage sources on both ends, as in a loop or network, the phase interchange has the effect of causing large currents to flow in the power system, and their analytical determination is more difficult and complex."
"THE DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM for all new residential and commerical areas developed in New Orleans since 1943 has been constructed to operate at 13.8 kv with conversion of the old 4-kv system to 13.8 kv beginning in 1945. The use of 13.8-kv circuits raised the distribution lines above the surrounding shielding, thereby increasing exposure to lightning. As more and more of the 4-kv circuits were converted and the 13.8-kv system expanded, this exposure continued to increase, resulting in an increased number of circuit outages during thunderstorms. Since New Orleans is in an area that can expect 75 thunderstorm days per year, some steps had to be taken to reduce the increased exposure."
"An inexpensive instrument has been developed for recording the wave shapes of high-voltage transients such as lightning or switching surges. The device requires no power supply, cathode-ray tube, or photographic film, and may be left unattended for long periods of time."
"A presentation of the problems of future air and space flight involving: (1) functional, operational, and environmental parameters and their limits; (2) new reference for research in the combined operational functions and environment; and (3) a partial interpretation of aforementioned factors for academic and research institutions."
"WIRE INSULATION is probably the most important component of the insulation system used in oil-immersed transformers. Its strategic location — in contact with and separating turns — results in the insulation operating at temperatures very near that of the conductor which is the maximum temperature encountered in the transformer. Therefore, its thermal aging characteristics are of considerable interest."
"A description of the outstanding features of this revised short-circuit facility with particular emphasis on the expansion and modernization of the instrumentation and controls in the laboratory."
"IN the conventional calculus of finite differences the n sets of k independent variables xa (1), xa (2) …. xa (k) are assumed uniformly spaced along each of the k axes of a rectangular frame. Occasionally nonuniform spacings are also assumed, but only along one dimension."
"THE ISOLATED-PHASE BUS, which has become the standard method for connecting power generators to transformers, has presented some problems on inductive heating of adjacent material, and there has been some question of the possibility of pressurizing the installed bus to exclude dust. Laboratory tests on these buses, run at 11,000 amperes and 15,000 amperes, and laboratory and field tests on cover tightness have produced valuable statistics for calculating induced heating and for checking cover tightness."
"This article briefly discusses the background and development of the International Electrotechnical Commission's Lightning Arrester Recommendations and compares corresponding provisions in the American Lightning Arresters Standard, C62.1 — 1957."
"A SIMPLE but satisfactorily approximate method of computing electromagnetic unbalances1 for double circuit lines, either with or without ground wires, results if the following simplifying assumptions are made: 1. The two circuits are symmetrically arranged on the transmission tower. 2. Line currents in each of the two circuits are balanced and equal. 3. External impedances Zext terminating the lines are balanced. 4. Mutual impedances are small compared to self-impedances, and voltages induced through mutual impedance by small (negative- or zero-sequence) currents are negligible."
"SOLID-TYPE paper-insulated cables with lead sheaths are generally used for underground power distribution. Because of the hygroscopic nature of paper, these cables normally are terminated with porcelain potheads. Potheads are, however, relatively expensive, and attempts have been made to eliminate them, particularly on circuits operating in the 4-kv range."
"THE TEMPERATURE RISE of all self-cooled apparatus is based upon the rise above the surrounding or ambient air temperature."
"The design and operation of a 400-bit memory system for use in a time-division electronic switching system."
"The application of electric equipment to drilling rig drives can be made more economical if closer consideration is given to the engine, load, and method of operation. The information presented, which was derived from an analysis of actual operating test data, should assist users, rig builders, and operators in applying and operating electric drives more effectively on drilling rigs."
"THE DELETERIOUS EFFECT of corona on the insulation of wires and cables subjected to high voltages has long been recognized. This basic work was undertaken to investigate the effects of corona on commercial Fawcett-type polyethylenes (branched high-pressure free-radical polymers) used as insulation in high-voltage applications. Two questions were to be answered. What are the factors involved in the design of a high-voltage cable? What are the criteria for selecting the best polyethylene resin for this use?"
"HOUSTON, TEXAS will welcome AIEE members and their wives who attend the Southwest District 7 Meeting, scheduled for April 4–6, 1960, at the Shamrock Hilton Hotel."
"HOUSTON, TEXAS will welcome AIEE members and their wives who attend the Southwest District 7 Meeting, scheduled for April 4–6, 1960, at the Shamrock Hilton Hotel."
"A STREAMLINED PROGRAM, covering seven major areas of interest in the atomic field, is offered for the 1960 Nuclear Congress to be held at New York City's Coliseum, April 4–7, 1960. (See p. 21A)."
"UNITED STATES representatives have submitted 13 technical papers relating to methods of solving power shortage problems for the 13th biennial sectional meeting of the World Power Conference (WPC) to be held in Madrid, Spain, June 5–9, 1960."
"AIEE officers for terms beginning August 1, 1960, were nominated February 1, 1960, during the Winter General Meeting at the Statler Hilton Hotel in New York, N. Y."
"ALL ASPECTS of the power industry will be discussed at the 22nd annual meeting of the American Power Conference (APC) which will be held March 29–31, 1960, at the Sherman Hotel in Chicago, Ill."
"THE CONFERENCE on Electrical Engineering in Space Technology will be held April 11–13, 1960, at the Hotel Baker in Dallas, Texas. The meeting is being sponsored by the AIEE in joint participation with the Institute of Radio Engineers and the American Rocket Society."
"Many of the past year's activities of the Engineers Joint Council (EJC) as well as plans for the future were summarized at an all-day annual meeting held January 22, I960, at the Statler Hilton Hotel, New York, N. Y."
"The AIEE technical conference pertaining to the electrification of materials handling equipment will be held in the Sheraton Hotel, Philadelphia, Pa., on April 12–13, 1960. The conference will be sponsored by the Materials Handling Subcommittee of the General Industry Applications Committee."
"The Great Lakes District Meeting will be held in Milwaukee, Wis., on April 27–29, 1960. Headquarters will be located at the Pfister Hotel. The theme for the meeting is “Controls — Pearl Street to Cape Canaveral.”"
"THE American Society for Engineering Education (ASEE) has published a statement of “Recruiting Practices and Procedures — 1959.”"
"A NEW RECORDING SYSTEM was described recently by General Electric (GE) scientists. Called thermoplastic recording, or TPR, “the new system, which is still in development, combines the processing speed and much of the versatility of magnetic recording and the storage capacity of photography, and it offers some advantages over both of these recording systems,” according to Dr. Guy Suits, GE vice-president and director of research."
"VAST unprobed secrets of nuclear forces are now being uncovered by means of a “solid-state ionization chamber” smaller than the head of a pin, a scientist of Hughes Aircraft Company revealed recently."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"DEVELOPMENT of a new, accurate, and fast electronic memory has been reported by Western Electric Company and Bell Telephone Laboratories."
"The depth of polar ice caps has been measured by radio waves in the Arctic and Antarctic, the Department of the Army announced recently."
"Flexible, cylindrical waveguide has been developed by International Telephone and Telegraph Corporation (ITT) to carry many hundreds of television, microwave radio, and telephone signals in dense traffic routes where it is impractical to use additional coaxial cable or radio relay links."
"A radio communication system, which permits policemen to cover yard areas using lapel microphones, is being employed by the New York Central to protect the railroad's vast property complex in the New York metropolitan area, including New York City, Westchester, and New Jersey."
"A man-made “sea” is under construction at Sperry Gyroscope's plant in Great Neck, N. Y., to help solve the major problem in developing detection equipment for antisubmarine warfare (ASW) — the water itself."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Advertisement."
"Our president, standing on the solid accomplishments of the past 75 years, looks confidently into an era of expanding boundaries and overlapping disciplines toward the centennial celebration of the Institute."
"THE HISTORY of rail detector cars began about 1926 when the railroads were faced with a very serious safety problem. This problem was the development of a new type of defect that was causing many rails to break."
"An over-all picture of Soviet power development is presented by the author, who recently took part in a tour of power installations in the Soviet Union. The rapid development of Soviet engineering talent has been basic to their progress, and the continued development of American engineering talent is equally basic to our own progress."
"The tunnel diode offers significant physical and electrical advantages over conventional semiconductor devices. Its impact on future transistor technology is evaluated in the light of these advantages."
"THE SELECTION of an Edison Medalist forces a group of people to stop and assess the accomplishments of those who have contributed to the progress of the electrical industry. This is good, because, with the tempo at which everyone moves today, we are inclined to take much for granted. Only by periodical assessments do we appreciate the accomplishments of many, and perform the difficult task of selecting one."
"HAVING BEEN A PARTICIPANT in this ceremony on a number of occasions, as chairman of the Edison Medal Committee and as president of the Institute, I am deeply sensible of the honor explicit in the role I play today. The members of the Institute have been most generous to me and I am deeply grateful."
"Eddy-current brakes have proved very effective for throttling sodium flow in a sodium-cooled nuclear power reactor, thus maintaining a constant temperature gradient for afterglow conditions. Design steps and calculations are presented."
"A MIXED TRANSCENDENTAL and polynomial transform is obtained by cascading a transmission line and a time constant. The substitution of the variable y for — exp (— sT) facilitates a variety of manipulations of these transforms. The impulse response of a system of transmission lines connected in cascade and in parallel can be only a finite number of impulses. This has zeros only in the finite y plane. If the transmission line is connected in feedback, then a train of impulses extending to infinite time can be generated. This must be represented by poles in the y plane. Each y-plane pole is an infinite column of s-plane poles."
"A COMPLETELY MAGNETIC circuit which produces an alternating voltage output directly proportional to the quotient of two d-c input signals has been studied. The output is also directly proportional to the alternating voltage used for excitation, which, thus, may be employed as a multiplier input signal; otherwise, a regulated a-c supply is required. The circuit contains no semiconductors and is relatively insensitive to changes in the properties of the magnetic cores. It has the advantages of simplicity, ruggedness, ability to operate under severe environmental conditions, and reasonable accuracy for a wide range of the divisor and dividend control signals."
"A discussion of deposition processes involving powder, fibrous, and liquid materials. It is shown that electrostatics can be adapted successfully to production-line techniques."
"In 3-phase systems, an unbalanced load may tend to distort the voltages at its terminals. A method for correcting this condition by means of an additional unbalanced load connected between an appropriate pair of phases is described."
"IN THE DESIGN of circuits utilizing power transistors, the maximum allowable instantaneous junction temperature is often the major limitation on the power-carrying capabilities of the circuit. Transistor failure may result if the junction temperature exceeds, even momentarily, a certain maximum value."
"With the aid of mechanical models, a study on the steering mechanisms of animals has been conducted. Comparisons are made with many of our commonly used vehicles, such as automobiles, trucks, and tractors."
"TWO OF THE DEVICES most commonly used to clean air of atmospheric dust are mechanical filters, frequently made of Fiberglas media, and electrostatic precipitators. For air conditioning application, neither filters nor precipitators are entirely satisfactory."
"IN THE PLANNING AND DESIGN of electric generation systems for aircraft there is always the need for reduction in weight, volume, maintenance, and rebuilding costs. There is also the need for improvements in performance; i.e., better voltage and frequency control and higher efficiency. A system design is important which will improve reliability by reducing unpredictable failures through fewer and more reliable parts, especially those subject to wear."
"A description of a system which automatically and continuously measures and records parameters associated with AM, FM, and television transmitters — remote or local. Technical fundamentals used for recording these parameters are discussed."
"NEW YORK CITY was again host to the AIEE Winter General Meeting, held January 31-February 5, 1960, at the Statler-Hilton and Sheraton-Atlantic Hotels. Total attendance was 5,186. In 112 technical sessions, 491 papers were presented."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"ON February 5, 1960, the last day of the Winter General Meeting at the Statler Hilton Hotel in New York, N. Y., the customary Board of Directors meeting was held. Present were 33 of the 35 Board members. A full agenda kept the Board busy from 9:00 a.m. until after 5:00 p.m. Some of the actions of general interest, as recorded by N. S. Hibshman, AIEE executive secretary, are briefly outlined here."
"CHARLESTON, W. Va., will be host to a joint meeting of the East Central District 11 and the new Allegheny-Ohio Valley District 14 on April 12–14, 1960, with headquarters in the Daniel Boone Hotel. The theme of the meeting is “Industrial Wonderland — Coal, Chemicals, and Power.”"
"THE AIEE Great Lakes District meeting will be held at the Pfister Hotel on April 27–29, 1960, and will feature 72 technical papers presented by outstanding speakers. Eight interesting inspection trips, closely co-ordinated with the technical papers, will be available."
"THE Northeast District 12 meeting will be held May 2–4, 1960, at the Sheraton-Biltmore Hotel in Providence, R. I. “Electricity — Key to the Sixties” is the theme of the 3-day meeting which will include a complete technical program as well as a schedule of interesting inspection trips, social activities, and a ladies program."
"IN the exploding rush of new engineering developments today, it is too seldom that we take time to consider, even briefly, the prodigious work and thought which went into the evolution of most of the early engineering achievements. When a present-day engineer becomes interested enough to write of these achievements so that we of the 1960's can read of the labors of past thinkers, it is indeed a happy circumstance."
"The Charles LeGeyt Fortescue Fellowship Committee of the Institute has awarded a Fellowship for graduate study in electrical engineering during the academic year 1960–61 to Jeffrey Frey."
"The 1960 Summer General Meeting will be held in Atlantic City, N.J., June 19–24. The Chalfonte-Haddon Hall Hotels will be meeting headquarters and the AIEE Philadelphia Section will act as hosts for the meeting."
"GIANT BALLOONS, with a volume of 10 million cubic feet, were launched from an aircraft carrier in the Caribbean carrying equipment designed to record very-high-energy cosmic rays. The project, sponsored by the National Science Foundation and the Office of Naval Research, received fleet support from the U. S. Navy, which named the launching operation “Skyhook 60.” The over-all scientific program is known as Project ICEF (International Co-operative Emulsion Flights) because about 25 universities and other research institutions representing every continent except Antarctica are participants."
"A high-capacity microwave telecommunications system to link Brazil's remarkable new capital city, Brasilia, with the rest of the world is being constructed by the Radio Corporation of America (RCA), it was announced recently by W. G. E. Vreeland, director, international marketing operations, RCA International Division."
"A CAMERA that can stretch the events of one second into 28 hours is now in production. By combining optical, electronic, and mechanical principles, the new ultra-speed camera can take from 480 to 1,600,000 pictures per second on standard 35-mm film, in black and white or color."
"THE STUDY of strange behavior of materials in temperatures near absolute zero is about to yield developments “of great import to mankind,” the General Electric Company said recently in announcing progress toward a superaccurate inertial guidance device."
"Provides a notice of upcoming conference events of interest to practitioners and researchers."
"The CERN 25-billion-electron-volt (Bev) proton synchrotron — familiarly called “PS” by the “Cernese” — was officially inaugurated on February 5, 1960."
"American astronauts will slip into space without leaving the launching pads of Cape Canaveral, Fla., by means of a huge altitude simulator being built by Tenney Engineering, Inc., Union, N.J."
"The first of several special electronic devices have been lowered to the floor of San Francisco Bay (Calif.) to begin collecting earthquake information necessary for construction of the Bay Area's proposed new $115 million underwater rapid transit tube."
"The following new books are among those recently received at the Engineering Societies Library. Unless otherwise specified, books listed have been presented by the publishers. The Institute assumes no responsibility for statements made in the following summaries, information for which is taken from the prefaces of the books in question."
"The following recently issued technical literature may be of interest to readers of Electrical Engineering. All inquiries should be addressed to the issuers."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Advertisement."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"In this paper a comparatively simple scheme of reducing the impulse noise is suggested. This system consists of a gating signal generator and a balanced gate. It functions as follows: the impulse noise in the antenna triggers the gating signal generator. This generator produces a gating signal which in turn controls a balance gate. The function of the gate is to block the transmission during the gating period. Both the principle and the circuits of this impulse noise reduction scheme are described. Experimental results give the improvement of signal to noise ratio at the audio output ranging from 14 to 18 db."
"This paper describes automatic equipment developed to conduct temperature tests of two-way vehicular radio. The automatic test unit reported below controls the temperature chamber, maintains input voltages at proper EIA specified levels, turns test specimens on and off, measures the operational performance parameters of transmitters and receivers at each of the selected temperature conditions and prints the data. Four units can be tested at a time and these may be any combination of standard frequency bands, carrier or continuous tone coded squelch and wide band or split channel."
"This paper presents a brief description of the Micro-Module building-block and the current program status in terms of both up-to-date hardware accomplishments and future consideration, particularly in the area of miniaturized communications equipment. The advantages offered by the revolutionary Micro-Module are reviewed and illustrated with reference to size reduction and packaging design potential in the following: (1) AN/PRC-36 Combat Helmet Radio Set (2) AN/URC-11 Personal Rescue Receiver-Transmitter (3) AN/PRC-25 Portable Radio Set (4) HF Single Sideband Receiver (5) Non-Military and Commercial Communication Equipment"
"An all solid state, FM radio receiver operating at 860 mc is described. The active elements used are transistors and variable reactance diodes. The receiver is of the double conversion type with IF frequencies at 63 and 10.7 mc. The first local oscillator chain uses four stages to generate a signal at 923 mc. The crystal controlled oscillator and two frequency doublers use diffused base transistors. The output of the second doubler, at a frequency of approximately 300 mc, is then tripled in a circuit employing a varactor diode in order to obtain the desired local oscillator signal. The receiver has a 6 db bandwidth of 30 kc. If the output is equalized for a phase modulated signal, 10 db of noise quieting is obtained with a 0.8 microvolt input signal."
"Maximum effective use is made of transistors and tubes to achieve a mobile unit with superior performance characteristics and considerably improved realiability without, at the same time, appreciably increasing the cost of the radio equipment. No aspects of performance have been compromised to accomodate the use of transistors."
"The philosophy and broad outline of a coordinated broadband mobile telephone system are discussed. This system would be able to provide mobile telephone service of better quality than at present to many times the present number of customers. This could be made possible by means of an integrated switching and transmission design based upon a broad block of frequencies. All mobile units would be controlled over a data channel from a digital common control system at central. The research, development, and production programs required to bring such a system into being would take a number of years, possibly as many as ten. Technical feasibility seems reasonably certain. To achieve economic feasibility might require a substantial effort. Realization of the system would have to be gradual and would require the cooperation of radio manufacturers, airplane and automobile manufacturers, and telephone companies."
"A research study directed toward a broadband, coordinated, mobile telephone system is reported. In particular, a system using many fixed transmitter-receiver installations is proposed. Such an arrangement has three principal advantages: (1) economy in spectrum usage, (2) relaxation of interference requirements in the fixed and mobile equipment, and (3) reduction of transmitter power. In order to gain these advantages, it is necessary to provide an interconnection facility for these many remote stations. Considerable use must also be made of modern high speed switching and common control techniques."
"Distortion-free reception by mobile units of base transmissions is essential in multiple base station mobile radio systems, where adjacent stations are operated simultaneously and modulated with the same intelligence. Phasing and heterodyne distortion factors in overlap coverage areas must be minimized. After many months of laboratory and field testing, a satisfactory solution has been developed and applied to a system using wire lines for base station and control point interconnection. This method provides precision control of carrier frequencies, and phase equalization of modulation by building out the wire lines so that transit times are equal. After two years of operation this method has proven to assure satisfactory distortion-free reception."
"This paper gives results of laboratory tests made to evaluate the relative transmission performances of wideband and narrowband mobile radio telephone circuits in the 150 mc band. It was found that the effects of changing from wideband to narrowband operation are dependent upon RF impulse noise, frequency errors and RF signal levels. Under ideal conditions the change to narrowband may improve circuit performance; but where impulse noise interference is severe circuit performance will be seriously degraded unless rather large compensating changes can be made in such factors as RF signal power or average modulating levels."
"One of the major problems in mobile system maintenance is adequate evaluation of the transmission line and antenna performance. This paper describes a practical method of technique for making line loss and antenna match measurements to assure proper installation and continued satisfactory performance. Certain innovations have been incorporated in the process which are calculated to provide the maximum information with a minimum effort. The procedure consists essentially of making two transmission line input admittance measurements at widely differing frequencies. The results are plotted on a simplified version of the Smith Chart in a manner that yields transmission line loss and antenna match, These two properties adequately evaluate the transmission system for maintenance purposes. Both measurements are made at the input end of the transmission line without altering or disturbing the antenna or load end of the line. This is important where tall towers are involved or the antenna is otherwise not readily accessible. Accuracies are more than adequate for service purposes and the results are consistent under a wide variety of conditions. A simple technique for determining the distance in feet to a fault such as a break or short circuit is also described."
"The use of suppressors to provide a collinear array that has a single feed point has been described1. The suppressor design reported was one that provided optimum performance. During the course of the development program, several other types of suppressors were investigated. One type, although slightly inferior in performance to that described, is very attractive because of its simplicity. While it is not satisfactory for use in high gain (10 db) antennas, it is suitable for use in medium gain (4–6 db) antennas, and offers interesting cost reduction possibilities. The design and performance of a 6 db antenna for use in the 450–470 MC band is described."
"Developments in miniaturization in radio design have been aimed for years at personalizing the equipment. The design parameters are affected by not only technical accuracy but also somewhat offset by personal likes and dislikes of the user. This paper describes a personal receiver in terms of development to achieve personal compatibility."
"Vehicular electrical systems have the inherent capability of generating broad-band type impulsive interference, which, if effective control measures are not taken, will seriously degrade the performance of mobile communication receivers installed in the vehicle or installed in nearby vehicles. Thus we have two distinct problems: one, the interference to the communications receiver by the vehicular carrier; two, interference to the communications receiver from the electrical systems of nearby vehicles."
"My contact with interference, particularly mobile interference, dates back to 1946 when The Columbia Gas System Operating Companies first started mobile radio installations. Interference problems usually start with the first installation. For about eight or nine years, our companies had varying amounts of interference troubles, and we firmly believed that the thing to do to correct such conditions was to complain loud enough and long enough and the radio vendor would come up with some answers. Each year we had more mobile units, and exposure to interference increased. Channel loading was also increasing, and narrow band sets were getting closer and closer, potentially increasing interference."
"As this paper was presented as part of a panel discussion, it is rather brief. The purpose, however, is to illustrate the manner in which impulsive type interference such as that generated by automobiles, neon lights, electric motors, etc., in the form of arc discharges, effects double-sideband and single-sideband A.M. receivers. Also, how this interference compares with that in F.M. receivers."
"The present status of the automotive industry supported radio suppression project is covered. The international aspects of vehicular interference are also covered with an up to the minute report on the possibilities of international standardization. The cooperative program between the Electronic Industry Association, the Institute of Radio Engineers, and the Society of Automotive Engineers is discussed. This cooperative work must lead to the most economical overall installations. The final section of this paper describes new suppression devices that should materially help in the suppression of undesirable radio radiations."
"Reprinted from the proceedings of the I.R.E Vol. 48, NO.8 August 1960"
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"This issue of the Transactions of PGRFI introduces a new printing format. This, we believe, will not only improve the appearance of the TRANSACTIONS, but should encourage prospective authors to submit more papers, since this new format does away with the tedious preparation of papers by authors that was previously required."
"Two line impedance stabilization networks — a single unit and a dual unit-for the measurement of conducted radio interference have been redesigned from the present line impedance stabilization network to yield a smooth repeatable response up to 100 megacycles."
"Increased accuracy of measurement of VHF-UHF field strength may be obtained by improveing the impedance match of the antenna-balun assembly and by taking into account the measured gain of the antenna system, rather than by relying on the assumption that the antenna performance approximates that of the idealized half-wave dipole. The latter assumption appears to be the basis of present practice. Although the standard field method of calibration is theoretically available as an over-all calibration procedure, the present types of instruments depart from ideal in a manner so complex with respect to frequency that it becomes a prohibitive task to make detailed periodic calibrations by the standard field method, aside from the difficulties in the technique of the standard field method itself. A simple form of the reciprocity method is shown for measurement of the effective gain of the antenna-balun assembly under essentially free-space conditions. It is argued that the calibration of field strength meters should be carried out under conditions equivalent to free space."
"With one exception, the radiation and leakage1 from a signal generator can be held below specified limits. Exception exists in the loop consisting of the signal generator power cord, the power main, the ground connection of the signal generator, and the signal generator itself. Signals passing through the line filter are resonated in this loop and these signals can only be reduced by mismatch or by reduction of the maximum power available. Since the nature of the loop is unpredictable, a mismatch that will hold in every case cannot be provided. A limit on the maximum power available holds in every case. This maximum available power theoretically can be measured and the limit which it should not exceed can readily be found. The load drawing maximum power from a three terminal network is found and the theory of measuring this maximum available power is developed herein. Also indicated are how a limit can be set on maximum available power and how a simple LC filter fails to provide reliable mismatch."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Provides a listing of current staff, committee members and society officers."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"The clay tablet shown on the cover was excavated in Iraq at the ancient Sumerian site Nippur in 1950. This 35-line tablet, along with eight others unearthed in the vicinity, form an extremely interesting 109-line document which we are privileged to reveal as the world's first technical report! The tablet was inscribed about 1700 B. C."
"The need for more efficient communication of engineering and scientific information is traced to the increase in the number and variety of people who have the need to know. The change in the position of science from a significant source of power to a major instrument of power makes the distribution of scientific information a matter of competitive necessity and logistics. It is stressed that we need a communications system that will satisfy the needs of the scientific community at large rather than isolated and specialized pockets of retrieval. An experimental system is suggested that will provide a realistic test facility for the evaluation of ideas and components. Some problem areas in need of research and invention are discussed."
"Certain problems of technical writing have persisted throughout the entire development of science and engineering during the past 150 years. This paper describes the classic approach to effective report writing as used by the early scientists who laid the groundwork for our present space studies. Their techniques are recommended for use in scientific reporting in the space age."
"Significant new developments in the graphic arts industry now make possible new and faster types of publications and reduce the high cost of publishing scientific literature. The Videograph process for producing pulse signals info printer copy is described briefly. Other items include a completely automatic printing press for the Navy, new developments in computer printout typography, computer maintenance of parts lists, and use of card-and-camera record systems to permit rapid searching, retrieval and reproduction systems in Navy facilities."
"This paper discusses the aims of business publications in the electronics engineering field, and their obligations to readers and to the electronics industry. It also discusses the obligations of engineers to disseminate information quickly and accurately. Engineers who wish to write for the business press should consider the nature of the “publication image” of the magazine, the best approach to set forth the findings, and the appropriate style of writing for a given readership."
"In an analysis of the use of language as an engineering tool, the writing problem is divided into three phases: the preparation, the act of writing, and the results achieved. Questions of empathy for the reader, writing style for effective expression, and organization for clarity are discussed. Some criteria are given for mature, professional prose and for measuring the effectiveness of engineering literature."
"A complex proposal is a document which offers to a potential customer an approach to a problem involving the activities of more than one department, division, or company working toward that goal. This paper discusses the organization of a hypothetical complex proposal and shows the nature of management responsibilities, the use of a “systems approach” to subdivide the workload, and the role of the Publications Project Leader."
"Presents the front cover for this issue of the publication."
"Presents the table of contents for this issue of the periodical."
"Only in recent years has the motion picture become an important medium of technical communication. One ol the very first uses of the motion picture, of course, was a motion study of a galloping horse in the year 1872. But today this communication technique is widely used, as shown in the article in this issue by S. E. Strem, “Technical Motion Pictures in Science and Engineering.”"
"Provides a listing of current committee members and society officers."
"Unlike business and industrial films, the technical motion picture primarily serves the purpose of communication. This paper reviews the merits and disadvantages of using technical films as a medium for scientific and engineering information. Production techniques are described, including script writing, shooting, planning, editing and methods of animation."
"The structure of scientific papers is discussed, with the aim of making the manuscript as interesting, clear, and concise as possible without loss of subject matter. Some suggestions are given for increasing clarity of language, presenting sequences or comparisons, citing numerical values, using appropriate illustrations, and clarifying experimental diagrams."
"An analysis is made of the true functions of a good technical editor. In addition to giving his attention to language rules and conventions, an editor must be alert to the ambiguities and weak points in the draft copies of manuscripts. An editor should minimize the distortions that may appear in the communication process. When properly applied, the editorial function can actually give direction and focus to scientific pursuits."
"A review is made of the importance and significance of the technical communication in engineering R & D contract proposals. This paper shows what the Services are seeking in contracts with engineering firms and outlines the basic elements that the proposal should contain. Procedures for evaluating finished proposals are discussed, and a number of specific reasons are given for rejecting proposals. General recommendations are given for effectively shaping the material in an engineering proposal."
"This paper discusses the problem of teaching technical communications to engineering students and of how an engineering college can increase the quality of communications. First, students lacking prerequisites in basic English should be screened from such communications courses; the program should then consist of systematic instruction in technical writing and speaking principles augmented by continued exercise. An outline is given of the technical communications program at UCLA."
"Technical reports can be improved only through the understanding of their use and of their readers. Reports should show what was done and why, what is considered most significant and why, and what action is recommended. Organization and format are considered less important than understanding the needs and interests of the actual readers and of applying this information to the ideas in the report."
"The value of speech clinics as a means for improving the presentation of papers at national engineering meetings will be demonstrated to those who attend the 1960 International Symposium on Engineering Writing and Speech. Two full sessions are programmed for a unique speech workshop with attention given to individual problems. A group of carefully chosen advisors will conduct small groups of four or five people through various electronic testing equipment stations to show the individual exactly what areas of his speech delivery require improvement."
"The perception of depth involves monocular and binocular depth cues. The latter seem simpler and more suitable for investigation. Particularly important is the problem of finding binocular parallax, which involves matching patterns of the left and right visual fields. Stereo pictures of familiar objects or line drawings preclude the separation of interacting cues, and thus this pattern-matching process is difficult to investigate. More insight into the process can be gained by using unfamiliar picture material devoid of all cues except binocular parallax. To this end, artificial stereo picture pairs were generated on a digital computer. When viewed monocularly, they appear completely random, but if viewed binocularly, certain correlated point domains are seen in depth. By introducing distortions in this material and testing for perception of depth, it is possible to show that pattern-matching of corresponding points of the left and right visual fields can be achieved by first combining the two fields and then searching for patterns in the fused field. By this technique, some interesting properties of this fused binocular field are revealed, and a simple analog model is derived. The interaction between the monocular and binocular fields is also describea. A number of stereo images that demonstrate these and other findings are presented."
"Three analytical models are developed for estimating the displacement of the basilar membrane in the human ear when the sound pressure at the eardrum is known. Frequency-domain data, derived experimentally by Bekesy, are Fourier-transformed to examine the impulse response of the membrane. Time-domain and frequency-domain responses of the models are compared with the experimental data. Excitation of the models by periodic impulses is considered. Calculations of membrane displacement are made for excitation by positive pulses, and by alternately positive and negative pulses. Applicability of the results to the perception of pitch is indicated."
"A 2.5-mc crystal unit has been developed for use in a new, extremely stable frequency standard oscillator. A well-balanced design was achieved by using a 30-mm-diameter, plano-convex, polished quartz plate, coated with gold and operated on its fifth overtone. The quartz plate is mounted on its quiescent edge in an evacuated bulb, and achieves a Q of five to six million, representative of the Q of the quartz itself. The temperature coefficient, current coefficient, frequency adjustment tolerance and frequency aging of the crystal unit are all consistent with a frequency stability in the order of one part in 1010. It was necessary to develop polishing methods that would not disturb the crystal structure of the quartz plate and new methods of orienting the crystollographic axes to achieve better temperature coefficient control. New methods of mounting the quartz plate were found that avoid strain and reduce the effects of shock and vibration. The new crystal unit makes possible oscillators characterized by excellent frequency stability, small and uniform aging and straightforward design. For periods up to one month, the frequency stability of such standards compares favorably with that of atomic frequency standards."
"The notion of equivalence for group codes is explored in some detail. A dual for a code, and the sum and product of two or more codes, are defined. Properties of these constructs are investigated. Indecomposable codes are defined and are shown to be optimal in two different senses. Various classes of codes are enumerated."
"A model of a burst-noise binary channel uses a Markov chain with two states G and B. In state G, transmission is error-free. In state B, the channel has only probability h of transmitting a digit correctly. For suitably small values of the probabilities, p, P of the B $rA G and G $rA B transitions, the model simulates burst-noise channels. Probability formulas relate the parameters p, P, h to easily measured statistics and provide run distributions for comparison with experimental measurements. The capacity C of the model channel exceeds the capacity C(sym. bin.) of a memoryless symmetric binary channel with the same error probability. However, the difference is slight for some values of h, p, P; then, time-division encoding schemes may be fairly efficient."
"Since it is not clear, in general, how an automaton should best be characterized, one of the purposes of this paper is to find ways to go from one characterization to another. In doing so, we hare not been completely impartial — the programming approach has been emphasized more than the others. There are perhaps two reasons for this emphasis: First and the more obvious one is the closeness between theoretical programming discussed here and programming of digital computers. Secondly, the programming approach has provided a way of looking at automata that seems to make certain ideas less obscure — the construction of a universal program in Section. III of this paper is one such example. In the theory of finite automata, Theorem 3 is an attempt to unify the ideas of complete and partial automata, which have generally been treated separately in the past."
"A stochastic model for the occupancy N(t) of a telephone trunk group is specified by the conditions that arriving calls form a renewal process, that holding times have a negative exponential distribution, and that lost calls are cleared. The transition probabilities of N(t) are determined, and their limits are studied. These transition probabilities have practical value in making theoretical estimates of sampling error in traffic measuretnents, and in the study of overflow traffic."
"A particular time-varying network consisting of several parallel transmission paths, each containing input and output modulators, is described and analyzed. It is shown that, under certain conditions, the network may be characterized by a transfer function. A particular form of this transfer function yields periodic filtering characteristics over a limited frequency band without employing distributed elements. Techniques are also presented for realizing highly selective band-pass filters without the use of magnetic elements. Some practical applications are discussed in detail and experimental verification is presented."
"A magnetic latching function in crossbar switch hold magnets is obtained by means of a specially designed magnet core made of high-carbon tool steel. The fabricated core detail is given a hardening heat-treating cycle, regulated to produce a particular degree of physical hardness that was found to impart the optimum combination of magnetic properties needed to obtain pulse operation and magnetic latching of the electromagnet under a wide range of contact spring loads. The nominal latching force developed with this new electromagnet design is 4 lbs, with a cylindrical core of only 0.11 square inch cross-sectional area. The electrical operating power need be only 2.5 watts applied for 0.100 second or about 18.0 watts for 0.015 second, and the reverse release pulse strength is about 50 per cent of the operate value. The coexisting values of coercive force, residual induction and magnetic permeabilities obtained in this design are new and useful to the art of designing electromagnetic switching devices with a magnetic latching function."
"The speakerphone offers the advantage of hands-free telephony by replacing the familiar handset with a separate microphone and loudspeaker. The convenience of such an arrangement justifies extensive efforts to overcome its acoustic and transmission limitations. Voice switching overcomes some of the limitations but adds problems of its own. This study analyzes these problems and outlines a method that has proved helpful in the design of a voice-switched speakerphone and the evaluation of its performance."
"The magnetic switching core is a small, reliable and inexpensive component for digital logic circuits, but conventional core circuits also include a large number of auxiliary semiconductor components. As a result, the cost and reliability of core circuits are not very different from those built entirely with semiconductors. The possibility of building logical systems that use a minimum of nonmagnetic components is examined. Except for the provision of clock-pulse sources, fully integrated magnetic machines are feasible in principle. Suitable circuits must contain provision for gain, memory and unilateral transmission of data. These requirements can be met by taking advantage of the threshold characteristics of ferromagnetic materials that have a rectangular hysteresis loop. Two approaches are selected for consideration. In the first, a binary digit is represented by the remanent state of magnetization of a ferrite core. Upon the application of clack pulses its state can be transferred to adjacent cores by means of electrical interconnections. In the second approach, a binary digit is represented by a discrete flux pattern in a continuous flux conductor. These patterns can be propagated in a step-by-step process through the flux conductor by means of clock pulses. Examples are given of experimental synchronous sequential circuits using commercially available multiapertured cores. The capabilities, limitations and organization of these circuits arc discussed."
"A shot noise, I(t), is a superposition of impulses occurring at random Poisson distributed times …, t−1, t0, t1, t2, …. In the simplest case, if the impulses all have the same shape F(t), then $I(t)=\\sum{\\limits_{i}}F(t-t_i)$. We study, in this and more general cases, the distribution function $Q(I)=Pr\\[I(t)\\ \\leqq\\ I\\]$. One of our results is an integral equation for Q(I). This yields explicit expressions for Q(I) in a number of cases, including F(t) = e−t; it also permits a computational technique which is applied to F(t) = e−t sin ωt for >> 1."
"If f(t) is a band-limited function, with band limit −Ω to Ω, the result of instantaneously companding f(t) is in general no longer band-limited. Nevertheless, it has been proved that knowledge of merely those frequencies of the compandor output which lie in the band from — Ω to Ω is sufficient to recover the original signal f(t). An iteration formula has been proposed that, in theory, performs the desired recovery. In this paper we study in detail some of the practical questions raised by that formula. We show that the successive approximations converge to the solution f(t) at a geometric rate, uniformly for all t, and that the iteration procedure is stable. We then describe a method of performing the recovery in real time and a successful simulation, of it on a general-purpose analog computer. The circuit used in the simulation serves as a first approximation to a practical realization of the recovery scheme."
"Some simple results relating to certain mean values are given. It is not assumed that the signals are necessarily small; hence nonlinear effects are taken into account."
"Relationships are developed between the ratio of a desired RF carrier to an interfering co-channel RF carrier and the telephone channel interference that results therefrom. Objectives are set down in terms of permissible noise in a telephone channel for each individual RF interference on a hypothetical long system. Finally, systems applications of these interference considerations are discussed."
"Depletion layer properties have been calculated for diffused junctions in silicon and germanium as a function of reverse voltage and of diffusion parameters for the gaussian and the complementary error function distributions. These results bridge the gap between the linearly graded behavior generally exhibited by suck junctions at low voltage and the step behavior exhibited at high voltage. For total depletion layer thickness and capacitance, the transition from graded to step junction behavior extends over about one decade of voltage. For depletion layer thickness on a single side of the junction, it extends over several decades. Depletion layer thickness and peak electric field are presented graphically as a function of voltage for a variety of junction depths and impurity concentration functions. The ranges for which the. step and graded junction approximations are valid are apparent from these charts. The results were obtained by an analytical integration of Poisson's equation, and a subsequent use of the IBM 704 for a numerical evaluation of the transcendental equations obtained."
"Transmission of television signals over long systems requires a fine degree of equalization. An adjustable type of equalizer to supplement fixed equalizers is discussed. It provides both gain and delay characteristics in the form of harmonically related cosine shapes which are independently adjustable. The design and operation of the equalizer is explained on the basis of paired echo theory. The 336A equalizer used in the L3 coaxial system is discussed as an example of this equalization technique."
"This paper presents the results of a nationwide data transmission field testing program on the telephone switched message network. Error performance using the FM digital subset is described and basic transmission characteristics such as net loss, bandwidth, envelope delay and noise are given."
"Certain fundamental principles are presented for analyzing and designing high-frequency amplifiers and oscillators utilizing simple negative resistance elements such as the Esaki or tunnel diodes. The first part of the paper covers the conditions necessary for oscillation and amplification with a single negative-resistance diode, including stability criteria, gain and bandwidth. It is shown that the highest-frequency circuits require diodes with very small dimensions, so that a single-spot diode will have a very low power capacity. In order to obtain higher power at high frequencies, distributed circuits must be used, either with narrow-strip diodes or a multiplicity of small spot diodes. Such circuits present special stabilization problems in suppressing unwanted modes of oscillation. Methods of avoiding such difficulties are presented for one-port oscillator circuits and for traveling-wave amplifier circuits. In the latter case, nonreciprocal attenuation of the gyromagnetic type is recommended."
"Fundamental differential equations are derived under the unrestricted approximation of electrical neutrality that admits trapping. Extension is made for applied magnetic field. The transport equations derived hold without explicit reference to detailed trapping and recombination statistics. Modified ambipolar diffusivity, drift velocity and lifetime function apply in the steady state. The same diffusion length is shown to hold for both carriers, and a general “diffusion-length lifetime” is defined. Atass-action statistics are considered for cases of (one or) two energy levels. Certain “effective” — rather than physically proper — electron and hole capture and release frequencies or times that apply to concentration increments are defined. Criteria are given for minority-carrier trapping, recombination and majority-carrier trapping, and for “shallow” and “deep” traps. Applications of the formulation include: the diffusion-length lifetime for the Shock-ley-Read electron and hole lifetimes; linear and nonlinear steady-state and transient photoconductivity; negative photoconductivity; the photoconductive decay observed by Hornbeck and Haynes in p-type silicon; the photomagnctoelcctric effect; and drift of an injected pulse. Photomagnetoeleclric current is found to be decreased by minority-carrier trapping, through an increase in diffusion length. A simple general criterion is given for the local direction of drift of a concentration disturbance. With trapping, there may be “reverse drift,” whose direction is normally that for the opposite conductivity type, and also local regions of carrier depletion that may extend in practice over appreciable distances."
"Capacitance measurements made on single crystal zinc oxide electrodes in contact with aqueous electrolytes are reported. Over a wide range of bias and bulk donor density, the results are in almost quantitative accord with predictions of the simple Poisson-Boltzmann (Poisson-Fermi in the degenerate case) equation. This is shown to imply the complete absence of surface-state effects in this system. A very sharp discontinuity in the flat-band potential is observed at bulk electron densities in the range from 0.6 × 1018 to 2 × 1018 cm−3. This and other effects, arising under varying surface treatments, are discussed in some detail. The use of the semiconductor/electrolyte interface in studying the properties of low-lying donors is illustrated for the case of boron, which is shown to lie about 0.3 ev below the conduction band."
"The adjacency matrix of a graph of n points is the square matrix of order n, in which the i, j element is one if and only if the ith point and the jth point are adjacent, or i = j; and is zero otherwise. Let A be the adjacency matrix of graph G considered as a boolean matrix so that 1 + 1 = 1. Then G2, the square of G, is the graph whose adjacency matrix is A2. We obtain a necessary and sufficient condition for a graph to be the square of a tree by providing an algorithm for determining a tree that is the square root of any graph known to be the square of some tree. This algorithm cannot be carried through when a graph is not the square of a tree. It is shown that, if a graph is the square of a tree, then it has a unique tree square root. The method utilizes a previous result for determining all the cliques in a given graph, where a clique is a maximal complete subgraph. This result was obtained while attempting the more general problem of characterizing boolean matrices having a square root, or, in general, an nth root."
"The theoretical basis for designing frequency-combining and selecting circuits is developed. By the introduction of “sideband algebra” and of a frequency symbolic network, the new method offers formal design procedures in place of intuitive ones. This leads directly to finding optimal solutions for frequency-adding or frequency-subtracting problems without limitations as to the relative frequency ratios. The derivation of typical frequency-synthesizing circuits. such as “slave” oscillators and digital frequency selection systems, is discussed, and examples of practical solutions are given."
"The mathematical relationships that describe an amplitude-modulated data system are developed in a form suitable for programming on a highspeed digital computer. These equations contain expressions that specify in general terms the transmission-frequency characteristics of a transmission medium. A data signal composed of a train of raised-cosine shaped pulses is generated in the stimulating process. The simultation provides a means for computing the resulting response of systems to pulse trains. The performance of a doable-sideband AM data system is evaluated from measurements of the maximum vertical opening, or aperture, of the eye pattern formed by the received signal. This aperture is related to the system performance in terms of signal-to-noise ratio and error rate of the system. A verification of this technique is made by simultaing the conditions of an experimental laboratory data system on the computer and comparing computed and measured performance."
"The relatively recent discovery of the high piezoresistive sensitivity of semiconductors such as germanium and silicon has made miniature strain transducers available that compare with piezoelectric devices in dynamic applications but are also capable of producing dc signals After a historical survey of research in piezoresistivity, a brief phenomenological description of the physical effect is given and the pertinent solid slate theory is summarised. Various applications of semiconductor elements as strain transducers are then discussed in detail, special emphasis being given to surface strain gages. The problems of maximizing the bond rigidity for such gages and compensating far temperature effects are dealt with, and future efforts in these directions are outlined."
"An experimental switching device is described that has the following properties: (a) sealed metallic contacts, (b) control times in the microsecond range, (c) coincident selection, (d) memory without holding power and (e) small size. The device, named the ferreed, may be used as a crosspoint in telephone switching networks of the space-separation type. The development of the ferreed is traced from a conceptual model, through realization of a practical model, to possible applications in switching networks. Two methods of coincident control are discussed, and three devices related to the conceptual ferreed are described briefly."
"This paper summarizes and formally presents methods in use during the past 25 years at Bell Telephone Laboratories for the design of high-quality inductors. The quality factor, Q, of annular core inductors can be maximized by adapting core dimensions, winding details, etc., to the specific properties of the magnetic core. Commercial core materials include 2–81 Mo-permalloy powder and carbonyl iron powder. Analysis of the relationships of dimensions and magnetic properties is given first in terms of the bare fundamentals of dc copper resistance and magnetic core losses. The paper then derives expressions for, and considers the effects of, additional losses due to the windings, such as eddy currents in the copper, dielectric losses and the contribution to effective resistance due to parallel distributed capacitance. Finally, a graph is supplied showing the maximum Q and optimum frequency for many commercial sizes of annular cores."
"Congestion in systems with one server, exemplified by simple queues, individual telephone trunks and particle counters, is considered without any restrictions on the statistical character of the incoming load. Elementary methods establish formulas and equations describing probabilities of delay and loss. These methods deemphasize special statistical models and yield a general theory. In spite of this generality, it is attempted to give intuitive proofs and extensive explanations of the physical significance of formulas, as well as rigorous derivations. The theory is applied to specific models to obtain illustrative new results."
"Doubly lining the walls of round waveguide with a base layer of dissipative material and a top layer of low loss material provides mode filtering for TE01 transmission and reduces TE01 loss in bends. The effects of thin layers are calculated as perturbations of the empty waveguide characteristics. For best performance, the dissipative layer should have low permittivity and high loss factor. The layers should be only a few mils thick."
"New measurements are reported on the solubility of germanium in liquid gallium, thallium, tin, arsenic, bismuth, cadmium and zinc, and the solubility of silicon in liquid indium, tin, lead, antimony, bismuth and zinc. The measurements of other workers are renewed, including those of the solubility of germanium and silicon in liquid copper, silver, gold and aluminum; of germanium in liquid indium, lead and antimony; and of silicon in liquid arsenic and nickel. All but two of the liquidus curves can be described within experimental error by a two-constant equation. The form of this equation suggests that the liquid solutions exhibit certain simple thermodynamic properties, and some evidence is cited indicating that the constants of this equation can be used to estimate the excess free energy of the solutions. Figures for the complete liquidus curves of these binary systems (T-x and log x−1/T) have not been included in this paper, but sets of these figures can be supplied upon request."
"The available data on solid solubilities of impurity elements in germanium and silicon are summarized in the form of solidus or solvus curves. New solubility data are presented for the lead-germanium, zinc-germanium, indium-germanium, antimony-silicon, gallium-silicon and aluminum-silicon systems. The correlation of the solid solubilities with the heats of sublimation and the atom sizes of the impurity elements is considered."
"A customer voice-frequency pushbutton signaling scheme involving a new two-group signal code, termed “four-by-four”, is described. It is shown that the use of this code, with judiciously chosen frequencies, permits the detection of bona fide signals after transmission over any ordinary voice connection and facilitates discrimination against false signals resulting from speech. Apparatus for generating the tones is described, and the principles of reception are discussed."
"Remote line concentration, time-separation switching and PCM transmission are combined in a communication system experiment called ESSEX (Experimental Solid State Exchange). Organization and design details of the remote line concentrator used in the research model are presented and discussed."
"Remote line concentration, time-separation switching and PCM transmission are combined in a communication system experiment called ESSEX (Experimental Solid State Exchange). Organization and design details of the concentrator controller used in the research model are presented and discussed."
"Planar diffused silicon junctions with storage times of one millimicrosecond or less are readily obtained by gold doping. The introduction of uniform gold concentrations (in the range from 1.2 × 1015 cm−3 to 8 × 1016 cm−3) is conveniently done using solid state diffusion techniques. The gold diffusion technique allows relatively precise control of recombination center density, and, although applicable to almost any diffused silicon device, is particularly useful in control of storage time in small-area diffused silicon computer diodes. In this application, reverse recovery time of about one millimicrosecond may be obtained without substantial degradation of other electrical parameters. The process of gold doping by diffusion and its effect on electrical characteristics of diffused silicon computer diodes are discussed. Included are comparisons of first-order calculations and experimental results for variations of reverse recovery time, reverse current and forward current with gold atom density."
"Telephone signaling is basically a matter of transferring information between machines, and between humans and machines. The techniques developed to accomplish this have evolved over the years in step with advances in the total telephone art. The history of this evolution is traced, starting from the early simple manual switchboard days to the present Direct Distance Dialing era. The effect of the increasing sophistication in automatic switching and transmission systems and their influence on signaling principles are discussed. Emphasis is given to the signaling systems used between central offices of the nationwide telephone network and the influence on such systems of the characteristics of switching systems and their information requirements, the transmission media and the compatibility problem. A review is made of the forms and characteristics of some of the interoffice signaling systems presently in use. In addition, the problem of signaling between Bell System and overseas telephone systems is reviewed with reference to differing information requirements, signaling techniques and new transmission media. Finally, some speculation is made on the future trends of telephone signaling systems."
"The E6 repeater is a low-cost, transistorized, voice-frequency, two-way repeater for use in the exchange area plant, including use in trunks between local offices and between local and toll offices. It permits both types of trunks to be operated at low net loss, while meeting the impedance requirements placed on trunks between local and toll offices. These features are possible because of a unique method of repeater design, in which the impedance-matching function and the gain function are allocated to separate portions of the repeater and are separately adjustable. The impedance-matching function is accomplished by means of a line building-out network, which permits any cable pair associated with the repeater to be built out and made to match the impedance of the toll office. The gain unit presents the same image impedance, which is essentially independent of gain adjustment. Changes in gain are controlled by two resistive, adjustable artworks — one in the series-connected negative impedance converter, and the other in the shunt-connected converter. In previous designs of negative impedance repeaters, complex impedance networks were required for adjustment of both gain and impedance match. The E6 repeater also incorporates novel mechanical features, with transistorization resulting in low power drain and less heat dissipation in the telephone central office. Power is derived from the existing 48-volt central office battery."
"The TD-2 microwave radio relay system at the present time provides six broadband channels in each direction of transmission in the frequency band between 3700 and 4200 mc, each channel being capable of transmitting several hundred voice circuits. This paper describes arrangements and some of the technical problems involved whereby the number of broadband channels can be doubled with no significant penalty to the existing channels."
"This paper outlines the problems of providing satisfactory hands-free operation of the telephone and discusses various methods which can be applied to their solution. Particular attention is given to acoustic environment, proximity talking (as applied to hands-free operation of the telephone) and voice switching. Preference indications were obtained for 18 subjects in 18 different locations for proximity and distant talking without voice switching, and for the same number of subjects and locations for proximity and distant talking with voice switching. In the lotter tests, supplementary data were also obtained without voice switching. Regardless of the type of circuitry, the preference decision was considerably affected by the amount of reverberation at the hands-free location; proximity operation was generally favored under conditions of moderate to high reverberation, nonproximity operation under conditions of low reverberation (high room constant). Other factors which affected the preference for hands-free proximity and distant talking are discussed."
"A new type of relay making use of sealed contacts in association with one or more permanent magnets has been developed. The relay is operated and released by selective polar energization of the winding, and remains in the operated or released state following termination of winding energization. The design affords high speed, good sensitivity, circuit flexibility and power economies in various applications."
"For a graded p-n junction under sufficient forward bias, the usual space-charge approximation to the potential breaks down, and a numerical solution of the differential equation satisfied by the potential is required. A procedure is described which avoids the difficulties associated with direct numerical integration of the stiff differential equation, and which yields a pair of very close upper and lower bounds to the potential at all points. For a linearly graded junction, tables of bounds are given which nowhere differ by as much as 1 per cent, and which effectively bridge the gap between the space-charge case and the neutral case. The computer solutions are used to calculate the voltage dependence of the stored charge (low-frequency ac capacitance) of a graded junction numerically, as a function of the bias voltage across the junction. The expression for the capacitance is split into two parts, one of which dominates in the neutral case and the other in the space-charge case. With properly normalized variables, it is possible to give a universal plot of small-signal ac capacitance against applied voltage. The results differ from the usual approximate formulas by amounts ranging up to nearly 10 per cent."
"The properties of electron cyclotron and synchronous waves in varying magnetic fields are discussed. Magnetic field variations in space and time are considered. The problem is treated by establishing the wave excitation from knowledge of the macroscopic beam motion. It is shown that the cyclotron wave is coupled to the synchronous wave and that both waves are always amplified in a changing field. Unless the charge density is an appreciable fraction of the full Brillouin value, however, the individual electron orbits will be amplified along with the waves causing beam expansion. The phase velocity of the waves is shown to be approximately independent of space charge. In the case of a spatially varying field, one of the waves must be fast, carrying positive kinetic power, and the other slow, carrying negative kinetic power. The total kinetic power carried by the two waves is conserved. When the magnetic field varies in time, the kinetic power of the two waves is not conserved hut the Manley-Rowe relation is satisfied. When the field varies at a rate greater than the signal frequency, both modes may carry positive kinetic power."
"The van Santen and van Wieringen theory of “ionic radii” is briefly reviewed and extended to include spin-orbit influences. It is noted that, although for the most part spin-orbit forces have little effect upon stereochemical predictions made for the first transition series, noteworthy exceptions to this rule occur for octahedral complexes of Co++ and tetrahedral complexes of Ni++ and Cu++. Indeed, it is found that spin-orbit coercions render the ground states of these molecules Jahn-Teller resistant. Diagrams are displayed and tables compiled to illustrate the variation of ionic radii with atomic number for the second and third transition series. Paths for future theoretical research are indicated and an exhortation for closer theoretical-experimental alliance is promulged."
"Crystal aggregates of linear polyethylene hare been studied in the electron microscope. Twinning has been observed to occur across (530) planes, and possibly across (120) planes. Crystal morphologies have been observed which exhibit (530) and (5.40) faces. Electron interference effects have been observed which give rise to contrast lines and figures which frequently are parallel to crystallographic directions. These observations, and those of others, have been interpreted in terms of recently proposed ideas on molecular chain folding. It is suggested that chain folds may lie in a variety of fold planes or fold surfaces which are normal, or nearly normal, to the crystal lamellae. It is shown that a continuity of fold structure is necessary and possible across a wide variety of boundaries delineating regions of different fold structure. It is shown that these structural concepts are compatible with recently proposed ideas on the growth of lamellar polymer crystals and can suggest new details of the growth process."
"An attempt is made to classify theoretically paramagnetic resonance signals of inhomogeneously broadened lines occurring under various experimental conditions. The theoretical predictions are checked experimentally. Special emphasis is given to cases in which T1 is long, and to cases in which the adiabatic condition γH$$ $rQ dH/di is violated."
"A new radar technique has been developed that provides a solution for the conflicting requirements of simultaneous long-range and high-resolution performance in radar systems. This technique, called Chirp at Bell Telephone Laboratories, recognizes that resolution depends on the transmitted pulse bandwidth. A long high-duty-factor transmitted pulse, with suitable modulation (linear frequency modulation in the case of Chirp), which covers a frequency interval many times the inherent bandwidth of the envelope, is employed. The receiver is designed to make optimum use of the additional signal bandwidth. This paper contains many of the important analytical methods required for the design of a Chirp radar system. The details of two signal generation methods are considered and the resulting signal waveforms and power spectra are calculated. The required receiver characteristics are derived and the receiver output waveforms are presented. The time-bandwidth product is introduced and related to the effective increase in the performance of Chirp systems. The concept of a matched filler is presented and used as a reference standard in receiver design. The effect of amplitude and phase distortion is analyzed by the method of paired echoes. One consequence of the signal design is the presence of time side lobes on the receiver output pulse analogous to the spatial side lobes in antenna theory. A method to reduce the time side lobes by weighting the pulse energy spectrum is explained in terms of paired echoes. The weighting process is described, and calculated pulse envelopes, weighting network characteristics and dele-???"
"Radar systems that yield simultaneous information regarding the range and velocity of a target would be useful in certain applications. A discussion is presented of some fundamental limitations on simultaneous range-velocity determination in terms of ambiguity diagrams, with the aid of a quantum mechanical analog to the Wigner distribution function. A sequence of signals is found in which the signals yield both range and velocity information with increasing accuracy. However, this desired property is not accompanied by a waveform suitable for maximum operating efficiency."
"The TJ radio relay system is a broadband microwave facility that operates in the 10,700-to 11,700-mc common carrier frequency band. It has been specifically designed for short-haul transmission of either multichannel telephone or television circuits. Transmission performance and the over-all system description are presented, as well as some early field applications."
"The reduction and control of message circuit noise requires that its effects be quantitatively characterized. This is achieved by measuring some physical attribute of the electrical noise such that two noises that are judged to be equally interfering are assigned approximately equal numerical magnitudes. To give meaning to such magnitudes, the scale of measurement is related by way of subjective assessment into terms useful to telephone engineering. Pertinent to message circuit noise measurement is the characterization of the relative interfering effect of single-frequency noise components and the way the ear combines these components to indicate the total effect. The correlation between a noise measurement and its associated over-all end-effect may be made by finding the transmission-loss equivalent of the noise being measured or by the direct application of telephone-user opinions expressing degree of transmission satisfaction. In addition to these topics, this paper discusses certain engineering aspects of noise evaluation."
"A new message circuit noise measuring set is described. The instrument is an easily portable, visual-indicating and direct-reading device with which rapid and accurate noise measurements may be made. The set is fully transistorized and battery powered, small in size and light in weight. It can be used for bridging, terminating and noise-to-ground measurements with a variety of plug-in weighting networks, one of which is the new C-message weighting designed for the 500-type telephone set. The sensitivity of the set is such that it can detect −90 dbm. This value is chosen as the new reference for measurement and is defined as “zero dbrn.”"
"In the process of growing an oxide on doped silicon, electrically active impurities near the silicon/silicon dioxide interface are redistributed according to the diffusion coefficients and the distribution coefficient of the impurity between the oxide and the semiconductor. An analysis of the phenomenon predicts that single-junction or two-junction material can be obtained by oxidation of the surface of a compensated silicon crystal. For parabolic growth of the oxide, the surface concentration is independent of time, and the junction depth, gradient and sheet resistivity vary with t1/2. This has been demonstrated experimentally by oxidation of a compensated p-type silicon crystal doped with gallium and antimony."
"A general method is presented for synthesizing driving-point impedances using RC networks and active elements. The procedure realizes any real rational driving-point function and leads to rather simple structures. Only one active device, a negative-impedance converter, is required. The synthesis of biquadratic impedance functions is considered in detail."
"Pressure at the interface of the inner conductor and the dielectric of the armorless ocean cable is experimentally determined for plane stress boundary conditions. Polyethylene outer and steel inner concentric cylinders are considered as a mechanical model of the ocean cable. Equations are derived to give the pressure at the interface for plane stress and plane strain conditions. It is found that the theoretical values of the pressure calculated from equations of elasticity are in good agreement with experimental values, even when one of the materials is polyethylene, which has a nonlinear stress-strain relationship in simple tension or compression. From previously measured values of bulk and Young's moduli, it is shown that, for an elastic analysis, Poisson's ratio for polyethylene is very nearly 0.5. An experimental verification of the plane stress solution given in this paper confirms the foregoing value."
"Many types of missiles are guided by a finite set of distinct commands radioed from the ground in the form of a time-sequence of RF pulses. The command information is contained in the n − 1 time spacings between successive pulses in a group of size n, and is encoded and decoded by means of multitapped delay lines combined with AND gates. This paper discusses the problem of encoding command information (i.e., selecting the time spacings between pulses) so that m false pulses (m $$ n − 2) cannot combine with the n true pulses in any way to form a false command. Although it is very easy to state the restrictions that must be imposed on the time spacings between the pulses in the different commands, no general methods exist for finding, among codes satisfying these restrictions, those codes in which the longest command is as short as possible. This paper presents certain lower bounds, together with a few empirically derived codes approaching these lower bounds. The relationship between these codes and the well-known error-correcting binary codes of information theory is discussed in an appendix."
"From the user's point of view, what are the desirable characteristics of pushbuttons for use in 500-type telephone sets? The studies reported bear on this question and also on questions of how people process information when keying telephone numbers. Four categories of design features were studied: key arrangement, force-displacement characteristics, button-top design and central office factors. The results indicate that considerable latitude exists for key set design in terms of user performance; however, the preference judgments are more selective. The studies also showed that the manner in which the person acquired and keyed the telephone number influenced performance appreciably. Technological progress in recent years has brought pushbutton signaling from the telephone set within sight of economic feasibility. What, from the user's viewpoint, are the desirable operating characteristics of the key set which should guide development and manufacture? And how do people process information when they key a telephone number?"
"This standard is concerned with measurements of the quantities which characterize a waveguide or waveguide component and the associated electromagnetic fields. The term \"waveguide\" as used here, is a generic term which includes transmission lines and uniconductor waveguides as special cased. The measurement are described in general terms. For the specif details of procedure and equipment, the reader is directed to numerous references which form an indispensable part of the standard."
"The Motion Picture Research Council conducted, for three years, a program intended to improve picture and sound reproduction in the theater. The results speak for themselves, and the conclusions can be drawn by the reader."
"An extensive theater liaison program undertaken by the now disbanded Motion Picture Research Council stimulated several very important advancements in theater projection during the past few years: (1) a plastic drive-in screen with a gain of more than 2.5; (2) an inexpensive light meter capable of reading both incident and reflected light; (3) a liquid heat filter to reduce heat on film and lens focus drift; (4) 35mm and 70mm projector alignment films; and (5) a film-path gage and an optical alignment tool."
"A compact, single-unit camera has been designed to be capable of a high-quality television picture. Problems encountered in transistorizing video, sync, sweep and power supply circuits are discussed. There are four integrated optical accessories: remote focus, remote iris, remote turret and douser. Performance characteristics of the camera under conditions of shock and vibration, temperature extremes and high acoustical noise level are given."
"Operating principles for a new family of rotating-mirror framing cameras which make use of focal-plane shutters are described and examples are given. The basic concept is an extension of the idea of isotransport of image and film, presently found only in moving-film cameras. The rotating mirror and a number of prisms, plane mirrors or concave mirrors are used to produce a sequence of connected frames which move past a fixed slit in the camera at constant velocity. The moving image segments seen through the slit are then relayed to a stationary film by means of a smear camera employing the same rotating mirror. The optics of the smear camera is arranged to stop the motion of each image on the film. As a consequence, a series of stationary images which have been scanned by a focal-plane shutter in a known way are formed on the film. Use of the focal-plane shutter offers the possibility of very precise time definition. Focal-plane shutter characteristics have both advantages and disadvantages in comparison with between-the-lens shutters. One advantage is that multiple slits may be employed. If the images from several equally spaced slits are relayed to independent film areas, it is possible to increase the number of frames and the effective framing speed of a camera without increasing rotor speed or sacrificing f number. Other possible uses of multiple-slit recording are described."
"In the preceding paper by Jacobs, a new family of rotating-mirror framing cameras has been discussed. This paper describes a camera in this family in which a number of concave mirrors are used with a single rotating mirror to create a connected sequence of images which pass several slits that act as focal-plane shutters. The images seen through the slits are relayed to form separate rows of frames by means of a smear-camera arrangement. By combining 36 concave mirrors with six properly phased slits, a total of 216 frames can be recorded in approximately 1/8 revolution of a rotating mirror. The camera now being constructed at the Naval Ordnance Laboratory will use two mirrored faces, 6 by 2 in., of a rectangular rotating mirror. At the anticipated rotor speed of 600 rps approximately 106 frames/sec will be attained. Each frame will be about 0.75 in. high and 1.0 in. wide. It will be possible to vary the shutter-to-framing-time ratio from about 0.5 to about 0.02 by varying the width of the slits used in the camera. The effective aperture will remain fixed at about f/22."
"A method of measuring the light/time variations of flash light sources is described. A streak camera (after Brixner) has a neutral density step wedge over the slit. The light source to he recorded is arranged to illuminate the slit and step wedge uniformly at all points. Thus a number of light output/time records are produced simultaneously, the ratio of incident light to each record being known. Microdensitometer studies of these records are made from which logarithmic and linear graphs result. II & D curves of emulsion-developer combinations are also produced at submicro-second exposures. The advantage of logarithmic display is discussed."
"Eastman (or Kodak) Ektachrome ER Daylight and Type B Films are high-speed color reversal camera films designed for 35mm and 16mm motion-picture photography. Ektachrome Reversal Print Film, designed for the same process as the camera films, may be used for making high-quality prints from camera originals. Film structure, sensitometric characteristics, exposure requirements, suggested filters, and printing behavior of the new films are discussed."
"A magnetic tape recorder intended for use as a video recorder, that is, a storage device for television-originated images, has been developed. Extremely smooth tape motion has been obtained within the limited volume and weight permitted a recorder intended for a satellite. This novel design also satisfies the requirement of very low power consumption. Electrical performance and physical characteristics are presented in detail."
"A method for intermix splicing of triacetate to polyester base film is described, using the process of heat and pressure, and applying automatically a strip of reinforcing high-temperature thermal-setting tape to both sides of the film. This method may be used for all types of safety base film. The splice is stronger than the film itself."
"A new method is described for recording electrical signals. Information is written at extremely high density by means of an electron beam on a film consisting of a low-melting thermoplastic material. This can be projected as a full color image, or can be converted to an electrical signal. The tape, which is processed by quick heating, can be readily erased and re-used. A video recorder using this recording technique is described."
"Attempts to “improve” the picture quality of film recordings by adjustments of recorder setup or modifications of the film process have produced, in general, disappointing results. The advantages of a constant density and density difference film process are outlined. Sensitometric analysis of film response characteristics and exposure conditions may be employed for accurate control of image formation. A linear overall transfer characteristic may be achieved by selecting the most favorable operating conditions in reference to a standardized telecine reproducing condition. To maintain these conditions, a sensitive and accurate photometer is required, together with a standard reference staircase signal. The paper describes the design and use of a photometer utilizing a modified Densichron amplifier and probe, and a calibrating light source."
"Uniform terminology and a method of graphical representation are established. Factors affecting exposure uniformity are described by reviewing fundamental relations between the film exposure cycle and the television scan. Practical arrangements for recording television pictures on motion-picture film are described and analyzed. Effects of phosphor persistence are considered, and a detailed analysis of persistence effects in single-field recording is offered."
"A portable, magnetic film recording channel has been designed with a transistorized mixer and recorder, plus some accessories. The mixer provides for switching, equalizing and mixing of up to four microphones. Two independent VU meters indicate recording and magnetic playback levels. Optional accessories consist of microphone impedence matching transformers, precision gain controls and transistorized compressor. A high-gain transistorized playback amplifier and bias oscillator are located in the recorder. The recorder is manufactured by the “matched-plate” method in which the structural support for the primary rotational elements is provided by two match-bored magnesium panels to effect flywheel suspension between two bearings rather than by cantilever fashion."
"Many industries needing too few or too many films a year for an in-plant film unit to handle, employ industrial film producers to make their training and public relations films. The film section at A.T. & T., parent company of the Bell System, engages such producers to make about seventeen films each year. This centralized production insures uniformity and economies. The production costs are shared by the 21 associated telephone companies. Creative talent is selected on the basis of proved ability and suitability rather than by competitive bid."
"For more than a century photographic films have been designed for the approval of the human eye. With the development of electronic computers (“machine-brains”), there has come about a new use for films in machine read-out. Therefore, films must be designed to meet the “approval” of the light-sensitive cell as well as of the human eye. In making films for these new applications, a new engineering approach is required."
"Some time ago, we were advised by our legal counsel that certain refinements in the Society's Constitution and Bylaws should be made for the purpose of having them more clearly reflect the fundamental character of the SMPTE as a scientific society. The amended Constitution and Bylaws submitted herewith have been prepared by our legal counsel, the law firm of Donovan Leisure Newton and Irvine, in order to accomplish this purpose."
"The use of video tape in broadcasting service often requires that recordings be played back with a different head assembly than was employed for the original recording. If such interchangeability of head assemblies is to provide optimum quality, it is essential that close control of many manufacturing parameters and operating standards be maintained. In present-day multiple head equipment, mechanical dimensions of particular importance include those relating to the video-track azimuth, pitch, and width as well as the angular placement of the four rotating heads. Essential electrical parameters include the value of carrier frequency corresponding to reference video levels. In addition, response-frequency characteristics of audio, video and carrier frequency channels must be standardized. The significant factors are discussed relative to proposed industry standards and current CBS Television Network practices."
"This new video-tape recording system uses only one revolving head and is capable of continuous recording of the whole TV field on a slant track on the magnetic tape. Problems previously encountered with multiple-head systems are avoided, and simplification in both construction and operation results from this innovation. This system is expected to be particularly effective when used for color video recording. Research on the new video-tape recorder was begun at the Toshiba Matsuda Research Laboratory in 1953, and the new system was established in the laboratory the following year. The first experimental VTR-1 was completed in 1958. The VTR-1 prototype system was demonstrated to the public in September, 1959, and commercial production of the new video-tape recorder followed."
"Infrared radiation has been utilized in many fields of investigation. The research presented here was performed to investigate the application of infrared densitometry as a feasible and valid method of development determination. An apparatus was modified to emit and detect infrared radiation. Partially processed films were metered by the application of infrared densitometry and an empirical formula was derived to calculate the corresponding fixed-out white-light densities. The D-log E curves were plotted from the calculated data and comparison studies were made with curves drawn in the conventional manner. When the calculated data were derived from an empirical power series formula, the resulting sensitometric data were agreeable within acceptable limits."
"The production of black-and-white and color master positives and color duplicate negatives which lead to a final print quality comparable to that obtained in a print made from the original negative is a difficult problem for the motion picture laboratory. This paper is intended to provide a better understanding of the proper techniques and to point out some of the pitfalls in color duplication operations for laboratory technicians engaged in this work. The requirements for good master positives and color duplicate negatives and the techniques for achieving optimum quality are discussed. As a practical guide, step procedures for producing master positives and duplicate negatives through different film systems are outlined."
"The new Sound 8 Motion Picture Projector is described. Illustrations present a detailed product analysis covering basic construction, the projector drive, sound drive and electronic system. Major aspects of projector performance are presented together with some comments on this use and future of this development."
"Parameters for conventional sweeping-image camera design are easily exceeded through the use of a new mirror optical-relay system. This optical configuration allows all components to be arranged in a simple on-axis design. The incorporation of mirror optics into streak camera design opens new areas of observation and new fields of application."
"Design of a high-speed Kerr cell framing camera is described. A single Kerr cell, pulsed once, is used in conjunction with a system of optical delays to provide six consecutive pictures at interframe times of 1.5 × 10−8 sec and exposure times of 5 × 10−9 sec. The camera is f/10 at the 35mm film plane and the pictures have roughly 240 × 600 information lines content. Source image threshold energy is expected to be at an effective blackbody temperature of ∼0.5 ev for Tri-X film. It is expected that the camera will find extensive use in exploding-wire studies as well as high-energy-explosive hydrodynamics."
"Fiber optics — the technology of transmitting element-by-element a light image from one point to another — solves many knotty problems where photometric efficiency is at a premium and flexibility in design is important. Fiber optic bundles, consisting of many thousands of small diameter (less than 0.003 in.) glass fibers can be either solid blocks or flexible light tubes. Radio Corporation of America, with the cooperation of American Optical Company, has developed a variety of configurations of fiber optics bundles to demonstrate the importance and the versatility of this new tool in electronics. The most challenging, and perhaps the most important, use of fiber optics is as an image shape transducer. A brief review of basic principles is given preceding descriptions of various applications of fiber optics in electrooptical systems."
"An account is given of the spark light source systems used in the Aerodynamics Division, National Physical Laboratory, for the photography of high-speed flows in wind tunnels and shock tubes. The systems consist of basic units which can be used in various ways, singly or in multiple units as in a Cranz-Schardin system. Some results obtained with such spark light source systems are shown and briefly discussed. These include photographs taken on wind tunnels, shock tubes and shock tunnels with schlieren, color-schlieren and schlieren-interferometer systems."
"During the recording, the modulations of the actor's voice together with associated control tracks automatically position the new track against the original track, so that the burden of maintaining synchronization is removed from the actor and placed on electronic controls. Experiments have been made illustrating the principles of the method."
"After discussing the various factors determining the sound-retarding qualities of soundstage doors in general, various such doors, as used at Republic Studios, are described in detail. For the sake of convenience, they are classified as Inside Doors and Outside Doors. The former are double doors using a 1-in. cement plaster coating on each side of the steel frame of the door; the latter are solid concrete doors, 6 in. thick, with an internal steel frame."
"This is a survey of the life of Oskar Messter, founder of the German Motion-Picture and Film Industry, and of his achievements in the development of cinematography."
"The Gaussian current distribution does not hold in practical electron beams because of aberrations, space-charge and masking conditions. Only an overall effect of the total current is useful for defining spot size; and thus, the observation of the visible spot boundaries on phosphor screens is adopted (telescope). Because of the prevailing bell-shaped current density distributions, this definition comes closest to a practical measure of spot size based on center peak brightness. Experimental evidence is given for the formation of vertically reduced spot sizes during beam scanning in form of ellipses, manifesting itself in a significant improvement on vertical picture resolution."
"Based on a former investigation, the dynamic spot formation and its size-reducing property during scan are visualized for square- and circle-shaped beam spots. While the feedback-type color tube systems require a priori an extremely small spot, the grid-focusing and the masking systems can utilize conventional spot sizes because of additional short-range focusing facilities and beam-shaping external to the electron gun. Alternative modes of operation with different scan-to-grid relations in the Lawrence color tube system are critically investigated. An optimum spot size condition is found when operated with wire-parallel scan and with a high grid-deflection rate which also removes the moiré effect."
"The new camera film, Eastman Double-X Panchromatic Negative Film, Types 5222 (35mm) and 7222 (16mm), has been designed to give more than twice the speed of Eastman Plus-X Panchromatic Negative Film (Type B), Types 4231 (35mm) and 7231 (16mm), without a significant increase in graininess of prints made therefrom. This permits exposures under adverse lighting conditions, or with increased depth of field without an increase in illumination, or with greater economy in set lighting. The new film will find wide application for general motion-picture work and television use. Processing and printing procedures are compatible with those used for Types 4231 and 7231. The characteristics of the film which affect picture quality are discussed."
"A feasibility model of an electrostatic color map printer using Electrofax paper has been constructed and demonstrated under a contract with the U.S. Army Engineering Research and Development Laboratories, Fort Belvoir, Va. This machine is designed to print five-color, $22{1\\over2}$ by 29-in. maps by optical exposure from 70mm cartographic separations. The feasibility equipment uses liquid color Electrofax development with electronic flash exposure triggered photoelectrically from the paper. The machine is web fed, the paper transport being accomplished by means of air bearings. The Electrofax approach to tactical map reproduction greatly reduces the requirement for storage of large quantities of printed maps. It reduces the logistics problems to supply of raw material. The make-ready time is a few minutes."
"It has been the custom of the Society for a number of years to invite a distinguished guest to the Fall Convention to address the Convention on Awards Night on some phase of engineering, not necessarily directly concerned with motion pictures or television, but of great general interest. In view of the rapid expansion of photographic instrumentation in space technology it seemed particularly apropos that Edgar M. Cortright, Chief of Advanced Technology Programs of the National Aeronautics Space Administration, be invited to address the 1959 Fall Convention. Mr. Cortright's talk on the National Space Program proved of such wide interest and the developments he described are so important that it has been decided to publish the major part of his address in order that it may be read by those who could not hear him and also for documentation for future reference.—Glenn E. Matthews, Editorial Vice-President."
"Experiences with data from optical tracking instrumentation at the Atlantic Missile Range have shown that excellent satellite orbit determinations can be obtained from such data. Results are exemplified by tracking data on passes of satellite 1958 delta one (Sputnik III rocket). Various methods of orbit determination are discussed and applications of some of the simpler methods are illustrated. For shortcomings found with existing equipment, specific improvements are recommended."
"Earth satellites provide meteorology with an observing platform commensurate with the global nature of weather. One of the most promising satellite observations is of cloud distribution and type. Several image-sensing systems are being considered. Cloud images, both day and night with a resolution of about 0.5 mile, are ultimately desired. Problems in sensing instrumentation, communications, processing and data presentation must be solved before an operational system becomes a reality."
"A brief description is given of the satellite environment. The constraints and deleterious effects of the environment on image sensors and sensing systems are evaluated. Environment-induced engineering modifications of the vidicon are discussed."
"Infrared images of the Earth's surface and atmosphere obtained from a satellite are important to the study of the meteorology of the Earth, and present unique problems in systems design and in image conversion techniques. The known and inferred infrared properties of the Earth are the basis on which detector systems and the sensors themselves may be considered for satellite use. The improvement of sensor spectral sensitivity and response time will make possible better experiments and studies of the atmosphere in the future."
"Space communications are essentially line-of-sight transmissions complicated by nonstationary terminals and the literally astronomical distances involved. Severe limitations on available power and weight restrict transmitter power, and therefore narrow bandwidths for transmission of pictorial data are required. These unique conditions underlie certain problems and possible solutions."
"Simultaneous pickup and electrostatic storage of optical information are accomplished by using a transducer consisting of a pickup tube with a layer of photoconductor overlaid by a thin layer of highly insulating material. Recording is achieved by simultaneous optical exposure of the photoconductor and electronic beam contact to the insulator. A charge pattern corresponding to the optical pattern remains on the insulator. During the storage period, which may be for several days, the target is insensitive to light and radiation. When readout is desired, the charge image is read by an electron beam, as in a television pickup tube. The images may be stored on fixed targets or on a flexible tape."
"The program of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration includes several projects designed to obtain astronomical observations from satellites. Telescopes with apertures up to at least 36 in. appear to be practical for satellite use. They will be individually designed for particular spectral regions and particular experimental objectives and usually will be based on photodetectors and electronics imaging devices which will substitute for the camera and the human eye."
"Television techniques are planned to aid in the exploration of the lunar surface, with emphasis on the obtaining of high-resolution pictures from an impacting probe. A television link back to Earth will permit controlled soft-landings on the Moon and subsequent surface examinations. The optics, the television and the communications parameters are considered."
"A Summary and a few concluding remarks are in order after these papers of the Space Technology and Image Sensing Sessions. I should like to comment briefly on the papers previously presented and highlight those items which I feel are of the most specific interest to members of SMPTE."
"Development of new techniques for the production of low-budget, fast-process motion pictures has made the use of film of practical importance to business firms for interdepartmental communiques, presentation of reports and other purposes. The use of technical films by International Business Machines Corp. is discussed."
"A Proposed SMPTE Recommended Practice, Density and Contrast Range of Monochrome Films and Slides for Television, is published here for a three-month period of trial and criticism. All comments should be sent to J. Howard Schumacher, Staff Engineer, prior to May 15, 1960. If no adverse comments are received, the proposal will then be submitted to the Society's Board of Governors for approval as an SMPTE Recommended Practice. - J.H.S."
"The Atlanta Section met on December 8 at the Kodak Processing Laboratory, Chamblee, Ga., with an attendance of 38."
"This Report supplements and brings up to date the authors' exhaustive study of the nontheatrical field, “Scope and Nature of Nontheatrical Films in the United States,” published in the June 1959 issue of the Journal (pp. 387–392)."
"Further information about these items can be obtained direct from the addresses given. As in the case of technical papers, the Society is not responsible for manufacturers' statements, and publication of these items does not constitute endorsement of the products or services."
"These notices are published for the service of the membership and the field. They are inserted three months, at no charge to the member. The Society's address cannot be used for replies."
"A vertical aperture equalizer employing delays of one scanning line has been built and has been used on commercial broadcasts to increase the subjective sharpness of television pictures. By using both vertical and horizontal aperture equalization, optical aperture defects can be corrected. By the use of vertical aperture equalization and scanning apertures with suitable responses, television in the future may be practically free of line structure and spurious pattern effects due to the scanning-line structure."
"The TV tape recorder, initially developed to satisfy the needs of the broadcasting industry for high-quality recording and reproduction of TV pictures, is also becoming rapidly accepted in the fields of industrial and military technology because of its inherent wideband signal handling capabilities. This paper discusses the fundamental system concepts of the recorder, and presents the basic considerations in the application of the recorder for use in pulsed radar signal recording."
"It is well known that optical aberrations are unavoidable in lens systems and that the suitability of a lens for a particular application is dependent on the extent of these aberrations and the manner in which they are balanced. The optical requirements for television can be well defined and it is worth while to design lenses specifically for television purposes. The advantages so obtained can only be expressed qualitatively by test methods which are based on these special requirements."
"The SMPTE Video-Tape Recording Committee has been working since its initial meeting in June 1958 on items requiring industry standardization in order to insure interchangeability of recorded video tapes. A list of pertinent items was prepared and tasks assigned by the Chairman. The list includes tape dimensions, tape reels, tape track dimensions; audio, control and cue track standards; monochrome and color signal characteristics; tape leaders; standard tapes; tape speed, tip penetration, and tape splicing. This report covers the current status of the Committee's work and updates the report given by A. H. Lind at last year's May Convention."
"A full account is presented, from the viewpoint of color science, of the foundation of the new type of make-up material, “High-con,” which has been manufactured on a trial basis. The spectrophotometric characteristics of natural-skin and makeup colors, and the metameric phenomenon in the reproduction of colors in motion pictures are discussed."
"The Resources of the special-effects cinematographer have always been highly valued in the Hollywood industry. Generally, such special effects offer visuals which are otherwise impossible to achieve, or which are too difficult, dangerous, time-consuming or expensive to produce by routine methods."
"A traveling matte process is described in which advantage is taken of the selective sensitivity of film emulsions toward light, plus and minus infrared rays. How these two exposures are taken simultaneously and these components then used to arrive at a composite is explained. The process requires little studio space."
"Editorial Note: The author of this paper has undertaken an exhaustive study of the use of feature films on television with emphasis on editing methods. His paper was divided into six chapters: I, A History of Feature Films on Television; II, Distributors and Prices; III, The Editor and His Assignment; IV, Editing a Feature; V, Examining a Cut Feature Film; VI, Conclusion. The following condensation is based mainly on excerpts from Chapters III and IV. Admittedly in the condensing of any serious and extensive work, there is the risk of perpetrating the “unabashed mayhem” which is the author's description of the consequence of editing a feature to about half its original running length. In making this condensation (with the approval of the author) every effort was made to avoid “mayhem.”"
"One of the best known units of measurement in the practice of applied lighting is the foot-candle. It is used to measure incident lighting density and corresponds to a uniformly distributed light flux of one lumen per square foot. However, we are usually concerned with incident light only as a means of obtaining surface reflections and the foot-Lambert then becomes an important unit of measurement, since it represents the apparent foot-candle, or the value of incident light in foot-candles multiplied by the reflectance factor of the diffusely reflecting surface. — It is shown that knowledge of foot-candle data alone does not necessarily lead to an accurate calculation of foot-Lambert values where colored surfaces are concerned. Color is discussed from the standpoint of spectral distribution in the illuminant and its effect upon brightness reflectance of colored surfaces. It is also shown that apparent brightness values as seen by the eye do not correspond to the actual values."
"The development of a series of xenon gas discharge lamps, with excellent color properties, has opened up new fields of application for artificial lighting."
"The general acceptance of the wide screen has increased the probability with which normal perception of apparent movement can give way to discrete movement, the disconcerting perception of “skip” or “jump” of the projected image when it moves too rapidly across the screen. This paper not only reviews some of the theories and characteristics of apparent movement but also discusses ways in which discrete movement may be controlled."
"A new American Standard for determining the speeds of black-and-white negative films for still cameras was issued in April 1960 by the American Standards Association. The new speeds are approximately twice the exposure indexes defined by the older version of the Standard. The level of the numbers was increased in order to reduce the “safety factor” in camera exposures indicated by exposure meters. The reduced exposures give negatives that are better from the standpoint of ease of printing, sharpness, and print graininess. The present paper is a report on a study, made in connection with this standardization project, to determine the absolute magnitude of the safety factor. Both the mathematical and experimental parts of this study indicate that the safety factor associated with the exposure index is approximately 2.4 for average sunlit scenes when accurate meters, shutters and lens apertures are used. The safety factor associated with the new ASA speed is slightly more than 1.2, the same as for color reversal films. The revised speed criterion and the new additive system of units for film speed, scene light, lens aperture and shutter speed are described."
"The Use of transmitted secondary electron emission for electron multiplication has been proposed by Lubszynski,1 McGee2 and Sternglass,3 and photo-emissive image intensifiers incorporating thin films of potassium chloride as transmitted secondary emitters have been described by Wachtel, Doughty and Anderson.4 We also have been experimenting with the construction of image intensifiers of this kind."
"Two rapid-starting high-speed cameras have been designed to record rapid phenomena occurring at random. The novel film-transport system employed in these cameras, as well as associated triggering, timing and lighting equipment, is discussed."
"Definitions of terms for impairments relating to signals from both monochrome and color video-tape machines, together with some background material, are presented. It is hoped that more efficient exchange of information in handling network operational problems by broadcasting and telephone personnel will result."
"Principles involved in the design of video current amplifiers for television using transistors are discussed in terms of the hybrid-pi equivalent circuit. The importance of the current gain bandwidth factor is emphasized and a design philosophy which exploits an unconventional concept of gain-bandwidth is presented. An investigation of noise with regard to camera head amplifier design gives the transistor parameters and circuit conditions necessary for maximum signal-to-noise ratio. Experimental confirmation shows transistors to be comparable with valves in this application."
"It is maintained that correct gray-scale reproduction is the most important parameter of television picture fidelity. Under certain picture conditions, the absence of d-c restoration in the modern home receiver will almost totally destroy proper gray-scale reproduction. Set manufacturers were queried as to their reasons for excluding this critical circuit. To compensate for the unrestored picture, until restoration circuits are again included in the home receiver, operating procedures and standards based on the use of the transmission waveform as a guide are proposed."
"Perforated-type film has certain inherent advantages as a recording medium. Performance characteristics of flutter, drift, skew and general operational stability of a typical transport system using 35mm perforated film are given. Standard 5-mil cellulose acetate, as well as 3-mil and 1½-mil Mylar base films, is included at speeds of 9–126 ips (inches per second). Analysis of performance serves to indicate advantages to be gained in applying sprocket-hole film to instrumentation recording."
"Zoom, or varifocal, lenses have been known since 1930, but they were seldom used until after the second world war, when they became generally applied to television cameras. The past ten years have seen the development of several types of zoom lens for 8mm and 16mm motion-picture cameras. These are either mechanically or optically compensated, and necessarily contain many lens elements. The optical design is difficult, and it is only recently that zoom lenses comparable to ordinary cine lenses have become available."
"Surface grain and abrasion defects emphasized in optical printing from single-strip color negative for wide-screen presentation were formerly minimized by means of lacquer coatings and diffuse printer optics. This method resulted in lacquer dirt and loss of definition. Technicolor matrices of greatly improved quality are now printed from “wet” negatives, i.e., the negatives are run through a perchlorethylene bath, doctored by means of air and/or vacuum squeegees, printed, then dried by air jets before being taken up."
"Reasons for the unsuitability of resolving power as a criterion of the performance of an optical or photographic system in general are outlined and the newer concepts of acutance and spread function are introduced. The method of computing the edge trace from the spread function is described. The procedure known as convolution is introduced and exemplified by computing the image of a sinusoidal test object. It is shown that such an image is also sinusoidal and of the same frequency as the object but of different modulation and phase and that the properties of such an image give rise to the concept of sine-wave response."
"The factors which affect the dimensions of solvent-cast, cellulose ester base motion-picture film are discussed in order to correct some of the misinterpretations that are sometimes made. The distinction between standard film dimensions at the time of manufacture and actual film dimensions at the time of use is clarified. The stacking or cancellation of dimensional errors caused by variations in cutting or perforating, relative humidity, temperature, processing and aging is explained. The application of the principles discussed to practical problems in the motion-picture and in the instrument and data-recording fields is illustrated."
"It is customary in the motion-picture industry to record and edit sound and picture separately. The procedure affords vastly improved production flexibility over single-system methods. This added flexibility can also be used to considerable advantage with video tape. A system has been designed to provide separate magnetic sound and magnetic picture records."
"A switching circuit has been designed to produce a doublet impulse transition of 0.05 μsec. The problem of clamping a color signal during the burst interval by means of crystal diodes is discussed and a solution presented. Nonlinear amplification of the switching data prior to regenerative clipping has been found to permit dependable switching with much smaller brightness changes."
"Methods currently used for the reduction of tracking data are extremely costly. Availability of “real-time” data is highly desirable. Capabilities and requirements are discussed for “Super-Theodolite,” an automatic, real-time theodolite with three specific techniques: electronic angular measurement, analog-to-digital conversion, and measurement of focal-plane tracking error."
"A projector of basically new design is intended for the dual purpose of projecting either 35mm or 70mm film, at either 24 or 30 frames/sec. The different projection lenses are prefocused in precision fittings for ready interchange. Optical and magnetic soundheads are integral assemblies. Conversion from either film size to the other, and frame rate change, takes but a few minutes"
"Presentation of the scientific films which were prepared for the Atoms for Peace Conference at Geneva required multilingual sound. In order to provide a sophisticated performance, a four-theater complex was planned to present each film with simultaneous sound in the four official languages. Planning which led to the selection of the method is discussed."
"An audio-visual system has been designed with a 16mm rear-projection system, electrically interlocked with a 16mm magnetic film reproducer which carries a four-language soundtrack. A selector switch and headphones at each seat in the auditorium permit the auditor to select the desired language."
"Ninety-three reels of narration, each in four languages, were prepared and transferred to a special 4-track (Multivox) magnetic recorder. Problems of synchronization and other technical problems were involved."
"The luminance-difference threshold has been determined as a function of luminance for viewing conditions similar to those recommended by the ASA for the projection of professional motion pictures. A stimulus subtending an angle of 0.5° was superimposed briefly upon various areas within typical photographic reproductions. The effective presentation time for each stimulus was about 1 second, which is near the maximum fixation time commonly occurring in the viewing of scenes and pictures. The mean luminance-difference threshold for relatively bright areas within the test scenes was found to be equivalent to a density difference of 0.015. The results indicate the nature of the dependence of the luminance-difference threshold upon the luminance of the test area and upon the luminance of surrounding areas."
"The concept of sine-wave response is explained, and it is shown how this characteristic describes the behavior of an optical or photographic system whereas a single parameter such as resolving power or passband frequency may be inadequate. The simple experimental methods of determining sine-wave response are described, and an extensive list is given of the various methods that have appeared in the literature. The usefulness of the sine-wave response is exemplified by showing how spurious resolution may arise and how successive steps in a complete photographic system can be cascaded to give the overall response of the system. The method of computing sine-wave response from the spread function is described in detail."
"Feature films are now going into theater release with three different soundtrack classifications — single-channel optical, 4-channel magnetic and 6-channel magnetic. When appropriate theater reproducer systems are installed piecemeal, the resulting combination of equipment and controls is often difficult to operate and confusing to the projectionist. A sound reproducing system has been designed to eliminate duplication of controls, simplify routine operating, as well as provide emergency procedures and pushbutton selection of operating modes at each projector position."
"Two recent innovations in lighting control equipment, the silicon controlled rectifier dimmer and the “infinite preset” control system, offer new and exciting possibilities in the field of studio lighting. These innovations have raised interesting technical problems which are discussed."
"A wide-band television switching system has been produced by using standard techniques but incorporating a distribution amplifier that was designed to be used as both an input and an output amplifier capable of a bandwidth of more than 17 me. The requirements also necessitated the design of a small, very low-capacity relay which is an integral part of the overall system."
"The problem of accommodating unpredictable variations in average density of films and slides used in TV programing has spurred interest in devices for automatic control of signal levels from vidicon camera chains. A practical device provides control over a wide range of densities, with the particular advantage that the method of injecting control avoids introduction of “bounce” into the video signal."
"An arrangement with a standard camera has been devised to televise sporting events having fast action and to broadcast these in slow motion, with very little delay. Successive fields, at 60/sec, are recorded as separate frames on 16mm film which is developed in a rapid processor, then broadcast as standard film. The speed ratio is 2.5: 1, and the delay 1.5 min. A film storage allows 14 min of showing time (5.6 min original scene time)."
"Submarine photographs, generally taken through a plane window in the wall of the box holding the camera, compare unfavorably with those taken on land, even when wide-angle lenses are used, because of difficulties introduced by the flat window. A submarine lens attachment, consisting of lenses properly chosen and mounted to overcome these problems, is described. The proper powers and diameters of the lenses are discussed, together with corrections for chromatic aberration and astigmatism."
"Use of the conventional submarine in underwater photography is impractical for many reasons, such as monstrous size, poor maneuverability, relative fragility and high cost in money and manpower. The Pegase is a miniature submarine designed to overcome these disadvantages. It is easily controlled by one man from within or without and it can move in the water as easily as a fish, or a swimming diver."
"Some unusual problems are involved in dubbing from English into Spanish. A technique based on the use of a specially designed attachment for the Moviola has been developed to aid in the solution of these problems and to enable fast and accurate dubbing."
"Participation last summer in the Exhibition in Moscow sponsored by our State Department afforded an excellent opportunity for observing the current status of technical developments in the Soviet Union. An earlier visit during the latter part of 1937 and early 1938 served as a reference in judging progress during the twenty-two year interval. The purpose of this first visit was to assist in the installation and testing of the first major television broadcast station in Moscow."
"Methods of reducing the temperature at the aperture of motion-picture projectors are discussed. The development of the cold reflector is outlined and its performance data on illumination and radiation are compared with those for the silver reflector, with and without a heat-reflecting filter. Field tests show that the cold reflector gives such desirable results as improved screen illumination; minimization of film buckle together with alleviation of out-of-focus problems; and a cooler aperture plate, an advantage in changing the aspect ratio."
"The Kerr cell electrooptical shutter has been adapted to obtain millimicrosecond, high-resolution photographs of models fired on a ballistic range. Sixteen stations employing these shutters are used to obtain aerodynamic data on nose cone models fired at velocities to 14,000 ft/sec. Energy stored in the Kerr cell pulse generator is used to generate the light pulse necessary for making the shadowgraph and schlieren exposures."
"The strides being made toward realizing the dream of international television are discussed. The suitability of troposcatter for achieving this goal is the central theme, with reference to feasible path lengths and reliability. Recent developments toward obtaining satisfactory performance are presented, including such factors as diversity, single-sideband, variable powers and bandwidths, and masers. Current troposcatter installation techniques are illustrated."
"The 3-inch image orthicon has certain limitations, mainly associated with target structure. The 4${1\\over 2}$-in. image orthicon was developed with the intent of overcoming these limitations while retaining the sensitivity of the 3-in. tube. Among the new tube's operational advantages are higher signal-to-noise ratio and better resolution."
"The 4${1\\over 2}$-in. image orthicon was introduced in 1955 as a contender with various European camera tubes for top picture quality with maximum operational flexibility. Its special characteristics are considered, particularly by comparison with 3-in. tubes, in a companion paper.1 The way these influence the camera channel design is illustrated with reference to a new 4${1\\over 2}$-in. camera channel which combines maximum performance with a greatly reduced operating effort."
"The major units of a television-tape transport mechanism are described; their basic functions and relations to the complete system are set forth. Photographic and graphic illustrations of the design are presented."
"A 35mm Simplex projection head was converted for use as a television projector with the 3:2 field-sequence method of utilizing film taken at the rate of 24 frames/sec for the 30-frames/sec television standard. A 35% application time is obtainable with a 5-in.-diameter shutter blade running at 3600 rpm. The entire mechanism, including the feed and holdback sprockets, shutter and intermittent Geneva, is driven from a single 1800-rpm synchronous motor. A timing belt drive is used for the intermittent mechanism. An eccentric toothed idler pulley of twice the diameter of the Geneva drive pulley is interposed between the motor and the Geneva drive to produce the required advance and retard modification of the rotary motion. The timing and change of acceleration are illustrated by curves. This method of conversion offers the advantages of simplicity and economy. Very little added noise or acceleration loading is produced and long operating life may be expected."
"A television system capable of better than 1000 lines horizontal and 700 lines vertical resolution is described. Frame rate is 30 cps, field rate 60 cps with 2:1 interlace. Lines per frame may be varied from 675 to 1035. System bandwidth is 20 mc. The camera employs a standard one-inch vidicon. The equipment was designed for the Department of the Navy, Bureau of Ships."
"A rotating-mirror sweeping-image camera with mirror distortion corrector, faster writing speed, and apochromatic relay lens has resolving power greater than that of earlier models. An adjustable cylinder lens corrects astigmatism from mirror surface distortion. The mirror, rotating up to 2000 rps, gives a maximum writing speed of 13 mm/μsec for about 10 μsec. The ƒ/10 lens gives static resolution of 36 lines/mm on film. Time resolution is estimated at about 3 × 10-9 sec."
"Successful color photography at submicrosecond exposure times has been achieved by use of recently developed cameras, emulsions and lighting techniques. The study of explosives has been extended to include heretofore unobserved phenomena by use of the Beckman & Whitley 25-frame reimaging camera operating at exposure times of 0.12 μsec. Super Anscochrome film, force-developed for both maximum exposure index and restoration of color balance, exposed to the direct light of the explosion and the reflected light of argon-filled explosive flashlamps, produced unexpected fidelity of color, and revealed events not previously recorded with black-and-white films. An animation, produced and played back as a motion-picture sequence (shown as part of the oral paper), reveals and clarifies the motion of these newly recorded phenomena."
"The paper describes a method of determining the sound level reduction afforded by “depressed” roadways, i.e., traffic lanes which are located below the general elevation of adjacent residential or industrial areas. It is based on the well-known optical case of light passing a knife edge and causing a diffraction pattern or a light shadow to exist below the edge. Various means are discussed to increase the sound level reduction, as by partially closing in the roadway, erecting a barrier near its edge, slanting the roadway banks to achieve a desirable deflection of the noise “rays,” or combinations of these means."
"Looking at the problem from an overall standpoint, the grounding of the system would in most cases be done by making a metallic connection direct or through an impedance between transformer or generator neutrals and the building grounding system which is described in Chapter II. The grounding system described in Chapter II in turn is connected to earth through the system of ground rods and water pipes described in Chapter IV.The protective systems discussed for static and lightning protection in Chapter III would likewise be connected to the ground rods and water pipe system as outlined in Chapter IV."
"This standards replaces IRE standard 48 IRE 22, SI \"standards on Television: Methods of Testing Television Receivers, 1948.\" At a later date, a standard for color television receivers will be introduced. Reference will be made in that standard to many portions of the present standard which are applicable to color television receivers as well as to monochrome receivers."
"Presents the title page of the proceedings record."
"In keeping with a flexible editorial policy which has permitted the steady improvement of the Digest over the years, changes in the content of this volume have occurred. The “Magnetics Materials” Chapter is no longer part of the Digest. Members of the AIEE sub-committee on Magnetic Materials indicated that they would continue to prepare an annual digest of their specialty but would prefer to publish it independently. Since the Chapter was invariably prepared as the collaborative effort of a group of specialists not affiliated with the Conference on Electrical Insulation, and since the information was to continue to be made available to interested scientists, it was decided that the literature on Magnetic Materials would not be digested here this year."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"Continuing the trend of the past few years emphasis has been placed on the evaluation of complete insulating systems containing new combinations of known materials rather than on the application of new materials to the complex requirements of present-day insulation. Therefore, syntheses were based mainly on compound rather than molecular engineering. Much of the large volume of literature published, this year was of an essentially non-technical, semi-commercial nature but, at the same time some very sound theoretical work was done which should lead to a more basic understanding of the behavior of materials and the interdependence of their chemical, mechanical and electrical properties. This has required the development of more sophisticated measuring instruments and techniques. A few excellent, general reviews appeared which indicate the desire to establish fundamental understanding. As the field becomes more complex and more and more disciplines are involved it is becoming increasingly difficult to see the forest for the trees and these reviews should be especially helpful to new workers in the field. Toward this same goal many investigators have also been re-examining and extending earlier work."
"A new book, Electrical Measurement Analysis, by Frank1 appeared this year which covered basic ac and dc measurement techniques in a clear and logical manner. It would appear to be a good book around which to build an undergraduate course in electrical measurements but offers little new material for a reference shelf. Stout's2 Basic Electrical Measurements, which covered the same material a little more thoroughly, came out in a second Edition. Among the new material was a discussion of calculable capacitance standards and an expanded section on transformer bridges. Churchman and Ratoosh3 edited an interesting book on the science of measurement entitled Measurement: Definitions and Theories. This book was based on the papers presented at an AAAS symposium on measurements."
"For the convenience of both the present authors and the readers of chapters corresponding to this in past issues of the Digest of Literature on Dielectrics, the organization of the present chapter follows the same general lines as past chapters written by Dr. Karl H. Illinger, with the only major difference being the inclusion of an additional appendix. The dielectric constant, dipole moment, and relaxation time values are taken from the original literature in virtually all cases."
"The theoretical scene was dominated by studies of the effects of long-range interactions in crystal lattices of various kinds. The correlation of conclusions drawn from various models is beyond the scope of this Digest and, indeed, a major part of the year's work by the theoreticians has been concerned with re-appraising, criticizing and extending earlier work. A good example of this type of activity is seen in Havinga's paper on crystalline alkali halides. The most intriguing experiment was performed by Groitoru; he demonstrated by a birefringence technique that space charges from very quickly in polar liquids, and that these charges, often classified under the general heading of “electrode polarization”, extend far into the liquid. Reviews were notable for their absence; Volume II of “Progress in Dielectrics” appeared1."
"The amount of interest in the phenomenon of conduction in dielectrics is ordinarily rather small. Moveover, the attention is distributed quite unevenly; most of the work has been on conduction in alkali halides and similar crystals, and very little on polymers, organic substances, or glass. The following account will be divided according to the nature of the dielectric material."
"Raether1 has written a review of the work on electron avalanche growth which has been vigorously pursued in his laboratory for several years. Unfortunately the article is not yet available to the author of this digest. Several other papers, however, by members of his group have appeared. Schmidt-Tiedemann2 made a theoretical study of the fields created by both positive and negative space charge in a single electron avalanche and their influence on the avalanche growth. The growth was found to differ markedly from the simple exponential Townsend build-up. Their results are in agreement with experimental evidence reported by others in the literature. Richter3 considers the probability of streamer-initiation by a single large electron avalanche. After the charge carrier number exceeds a critical value ncrit.1 the probability of streamer formation increases monotonously with the carrier number. The probability of streamer-formation for a constant carrier number increases with applied field. If the carrier number in one avalanche exceeds 108 a process comes into force giving higher ionization and thereby higher probability for larger avalanches. This may be the first stage of streamer-initiation, since streamers are observed only at carrier numbers of this magnitude. Franke4 studied light emission from single electron avalanches in methane and methylal vapors with a photomultiplier. The light emitted as a function of time indicated that the breakdown in methane follows several generations of avalanches. In methylal the rapid increase of light emission indicates breakdown by streamer formation as a result of a single electron avalanche. Schlumbom5 studied the growth of current in a single avalanche experimentally. The avalanche was initiated by an α-particle impact on the cathode surface which released between 103 and 105 electrons within a few mμsec. and several generations of avalanches could be observed. Good agreement was obtained between measured and calculated values demonstrating that the discharge is governed by collision ionization and photoemission at the cathode. Frommhold6 continued his studies of the electron component of the current in single avalanches. In his experiments a spark light source of short duration was used to release ∼104 electrons from the cathode. Hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen and air were studied. Measured values of ionic drift velocities in these gases and electron drift velocities in carbon dioxide and ether are given."
"The year i960 saw a continued increase in the volume of publications in the fields of ferroelectricity and piezoelectricity. Although twenty years have passed since the discovery of ferroelectricity in barium titanate, this material is still the favorite, with each budding center of scientific research making its voice heard in the chorus, usually with only minor changes of the tune. Russia again appears to be leading in volume and there is a fair proportion of valuable papers in the Russian literature, especially on the borderline substances where ferroelectricity is hard to separate from anomalous polarization."
"Some of the problems which must be overcome in developing insulating materials for aircraft high-temperature electrical equipment were reported by Wood1. An editorial by Mathes2 emphasized the drastic need for suitable materials. Dexter3 compared international insulation standards with American design practice. The proper selection of the best insulating materials or combinations of materials to meet the specific requirements of a certain duty or service application was discussed by Sherburne4."
"In this chapter an attempt has been made to cover investigations of the electrical properties and potential insulation applications of fibrous materials and plastic films during 1960."
"The second annual volume of Progress in Dielectrics1 was published under the editorship of Birks and Schulman with emphasis this year on weak-field behavior. Two chapters are of pertinence - “Theory of Polarization and Absorption in Dielectrics: An Introductory Survey” by G. Wyllie, and “The Dielectric Properties of Glass” by P. M. Sutton, both of which present general reviews of the subjects with special concern for work of the past few years. Sutton's contribution was limited to the inorganic oxide class of glasses and covers 1) volume and surface conductivities, dielectric absorption and polarization in dc fields, 2) dielectric constant and losses in ac fields, and 3) other matters such as breakdown strength, photo-conduction and photo-emission, secondary emission, and bombardment phenomena."
"The year i960 has not revealed any remarkably startling technical developments but the literature does reflect a continued strengthening of the technical level in a number of fields."
"The following topics are dealt with: missiles electric systems guide; aircraft electric systems guide; aircraft generators; cooling method; overload capacity; direct-current generators; alternating-current generators; voltage regulation; conversion equipment; transformer rectifiers; batteries; electric heaters."
"In conclusion, the application of alternating-current machines requires a working knowledge of the performance characteristics of the generator-regulator combination. Special emphasis should be placed on machine ratings, short-circuit, overvoltage, underspeed and fault power characteristics. Aid in understanding these characteristics is received by a study of synchronous machine analysis, but the detailed investigations performed by the cooperstive effort of the machine and regulator designers relieve the system designer of much of this work by providing characteristics in an immediately usable form."
"The purpose of this procedure is to define uniform acceptable methods for making tests to determine the performance of alternating-current, 400-cycle-per-second, aircraft-type induction electric motors. Aircraft-type machines are subjected to environmental operating conditions much more stringent than those normally encountered by commercial type machines and yet minimum weight and the utmost reliability are essential to the application. Weight reduction is normally achieved by reduction of life expectancy, thus making direct measurements a necessity in order to determine that reliability is commensurate with aircraft practices. It is recognized that there may be acceptable methods for making tests other than those included herein. However, the methods in this publication are intended to serve as a standard for both manufacturers and users of aircraft motors. It is intended that the standardizing of test procedures will Iead to coincident test data regardless of which party conducts the test."
"The purpose of this procedure to define uniform acceptable test methods for determining the performance and other characteristics of aircraft alternating-current generators. Rotating electric equipment for aircraft is subjected to requirements and operating conditions not normally encountered by commercial generators. For example, conditions of temperature, altitude, humidity, and vibration vary over much wider ranges. Aircraft requirements dictate minimum weight, and yet utmost reliability is essential. Weight reduction is generally achieved by sacrifice of life expectancy commensurate with aircraft practices. The necessity for accurate design requires that direct measurements to insure reliability and adequate life be an important part of this test procedure. It is recognized that there may be acceptable methods of making tests other than those described. Such other methods may be considered as alternative procedures accepted by agreement between interested parties. The tests outlined herein are not necessarily complete for any specific generator; and likewise the requirements in each case will determine the number of tests to be made."
"Presents the front cover or splash screen of the proceedings record."
"Presents the table of contents/splash page of the proceedings record."
"Presents an index of the authors whose articles are published in the conference proceedings record."
"In 1955 Mr. I. R. Weingarten1 presented before this conference a paper in which he described a bridge capable of measuring dielectric properties down to the very low frequency of 0.01 cps. The paper, which I am privileged to present today, summarizes the effort made in the Dielectrics Section of the National Bureau of Standards to improve and test this apparatus to the point that it can be used to make precise measurements of dielectric properties at these low frequencies. Complete details related to the analysis of the bridge circuit, the operational procedure, etc., will be published in the near future2. The present bridge operates at frequencies between 0.01 and 200 cps, measuring capacitances up to 100 pf and conductances between 10-9 to 10-15 mhos. It is possible to expand these measureable ranges."
"Residual losses occurring in the specimen holder and in the bridge standard capacitor must be taken into account in order to make accurate bridge measurements of the dielectric losses of materials that have very low losses. Also, knowledge of the exact spacing of the electrodes is required for accurate determination of the dielectric constant of materials. To better meet these requirements, a new specimen holder has been designed and constructed. By a technique using ball reference gages, the electrodes of the holder can be adjusted to be parallel to about one micron, and the zero correction of the micrometer can be determined to ±1 micron. Using a modification of a technique used by Astin1 and others, the residual loss angles of the holder and its connecting leads and of the bridge standard capacitor were determined to ±1 or 2 microradians."
"A method for measuring the permittivities of thin films, without the necessity of attaching electrodes or determining the dimensions, has been described. The results presented indicate that a precision of 0.1 percent is possible. An accuracy of better than 1 percent is probable. Excellent results were obtained even though some of the specimens occupied 10 percent or less of the electrode spacing. Excellent results were also obtained for dissipation factor. Insufficient data are available to permit an estimate of the precision and accuracy obtainable."
"A method has been developed for the measurement of the electrical properties of metal-loaded polystyrene foam artificial dielectrics in the hundred-megacycle frequency range, by the use of a number of large rectangular TE101 resonant cavities. The nature of the material dictated the use of a fairly large sample to assure measurement of a representative average for the dielectric; a 4\" cube was chosen for laboratory studies, and a 2f cube for production quality control."
"The increasing use of precision printed wiring circuits at very high and microwave frequencies has created a growing need for insulating materials having isotropic dielectric constant and dissipation factor since the electric field of printed wiring boards is active in both the perpendicular and parallel directions. It is recognized that the dielectric properties of laminated sheet insulating materials are not the same in both the perpendicular and parallel directions and that these properties are frequency, temperature, and moisture sensitive. Therefore, the present practice of controlling the properties of such materials by measuring only the dielectric properties perpendicular to laminations has proven inadequate from a functional standpoint in critical electronic applications."
"We recently measured the first Townsend ionization coefficient, α in a series of n-alkyl chloride gases1, and found that the dependence of α upon molecular structure in these gases was similar to, but different in detail from, that indirectly inferred in the hydrocarbon gases by Devins and Crowe2 and Heylen and Lewis3 from sparking potential measurements. In order to determine whether these differences are real or are the result of errors in analysis of the sparking potential data, we have undertaken the direct measurement of the first Townsend ionization coefficients in the n-alkane gases containing from one to six carbon atoms."
"It is generally accepted that electric breakdown in low density gases (e.g. hexane vapor) is completely described by the Townsend mechanism of breakdown1. On the other hand, our recent studies using liquid hexane have shown that breakdown does not occur via a Townsend mechanism but rather by means of a thermal mechanism2. It is therefore, of interest to make a systematic study in the intermediate range of densities where a transition from a Townsend to a thermal mechanism may be expected to occur. Accordingly, the electric strength of hexane vapor has been measured at temperatures near critical under conditions where the vapor density was continuously increased by pressure change up to the critical density. Young3 had previously made such a study in the critical region using carbon dioxide; however, it was desirable to repeat this experiment using hexane because of the large accumulation of breakdown data on liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons. We present in this paper, the results of such a study and a tentative analysis thereof."
"Electric breakdown and conduction in organic liquids has been the subject of reintensified investigation in recent years. But even in highly purified test liquids such as n-hexane the experimental evidence is still subject to continuous alteration and improvement. Failure to reproduce earlier measurements1 of breakdown strength in n-hexane led to the discovery of the importance of dissolved air or rather oxygen in the test liquid as reported earlier2. The discovery prompted this investigation, which deals mostly with the effect of dissolved gases on the electric strength of n-hexane."
"The breakdown strength of rutile single crystals has been measured parallel and perpendicular to the optic axis, at DC and with impulses having a rise time of 1 microsecond."
"The electrical breakdown in a dielectric medium may be defined as the state when the conductivity increases as a function of time without limit under the influence of a constant electric field. In solids, if the mechanical breakdown due to electromechanical coupling is unimportant, such increase in the conductivity-leads to the so called thermal breakdown. In inhomogeneous solids the breakdown condition is governed by the maximum local conductivity which may include gaseous discharge in the pores, the higher conductivity of the grain boundary relative to the bulk, etc. If one mechanism causes the maximum local conductivity, then the characteristics, such as the temperature and density dependences, of the breakdown condition due to this mechanism could be observed, and vice versa."
"Active nitrogen is the product of an electric discharge in nitrogen1. It is characterized by a prolonged yellow afterglow and strong chemical reactivity. The latter is mostly due to nitrogen atoms in the ground state. Their homogeneous reactions with gaseous molecules, including hydro-carbons, have been studied extensively2, but this is the first study of reactions of active nitrogen with polymers."
"Pressure sensitive vinyl tapes are extensively used as an outer wrap for cable splices and terminations, and for bus bar insulation and other high voltage applications. For such service, resistance to corona is an important factor. However, most published information on corona resistance is concerned with polyethylene and insulations other than vinyl .This paper is a preliminary report of a study which has three related objectives: (a) to obtain meaningful data on comparative long time corona resistance; (b) to determine the best configuration of the unavoidable lap joints in taped constructions; and (c) to determine the chemical and physical mechanism of corona failure as a basis for developing improved products."
"Last year at this conference we discussed various methods for measuring the gassing properties of cable oils under electrical stress and described a modification of the Pirelli test designed for rapid and convenient operation. In using this apparatus on various natural and synthetic hydrocarbon oils, we have found a great diversity in gassing behavior, especially with changes in temperature. While the gassing coefficient of some oils is nearly unaffected by changing temperature, that of other oils changes rapidly and may actually reverse its sign. In some cases an increase in temperature will cause a gas-adsorbing oil to become gas-evolving; in other cases the reverse change may take place.In order to understand the behavior of commercial oils, we believe it is necessary first to study the behavior of pure hydrocarbons, both aromatic and aliphatic, and of their binnary mixtures. Only when the behavior of these simple cases is understood, can the behavior of complex mixtures be adequately interpreted. The present paper reports some results obtained in the first part of the above research, namely, measurement of the gassing coefficients of a number of pure aromatic and alkyl aromatic hydrocarbons. These measurements were all made in the modified Pirelli cell using a paper wick as described in our previous paper."
"In recent years, the increased use of plastics and elastomers as insulation for applications in areas where heavy surface contamination occurs both indoors and out has resulted in the development of tests to investigate the failure of materials under such conditions. Relatively few such tests have become accepted as standard and often even these are considered to be limited in scope or difficult to interpret in terms of service requirements. Much confusion has arisen because a test designed initially to evaluate one type of electrical surface failure has been indiscriminantly used to evaluate another or even \"all\" types."
"At this Conference last year, one of us summarized the results of standard surface-tracking resistance tests, both wet and dry, on a large number of polymers, and showed how some of these results depended on polymer chemical structure and filler content1. It was further indicated that the wet tracking resistance of many materials (measured by a \"standard\" dust-fog test procedure) was often a simple power function of the dry tracking resistance (computed from ASTM D495 arc-resistance test results), thus LDFS = K(L495)1.5 (1). A graphical display of the results for various polymer types was included in a formal paper2 as a plot of log LDEF, vs. log L495. It was found that the short-time D495 tests could usually be used to predict the long-time dust-fog lives if L495 was low, but not if L4945 was high, except for certain known classes of polymers. Polymers rich in amine or amide groups and filled polymers rich in phenyl groups were among the notable exceptions to Eq. (1), i.e., they might be called “weak-wet, strong-D495” materials in regard to track resistance. This difficulty in predicting the wet tracking resistance of materials, coupled with the fact that dust-fog tests have become more expensive and time-consuming as better materials are developed has created greater interest in devising wet tracking test procedures that will provide reliable results more quickly and cheaply. One approach to this problem is to make the dust-fog test more linear and of greater average severity (accelerated dust-fog methods) and another approach is to explore the possibilities of electrolyte-drop and film testing techniques."
"This paper describes the continuation of the basic investigation, first reported at this conference in 19591 of behavior of insulating materials exposed to surface discharges of the type which lead to carbonization and tracking in service and in various wet and dry tracking tests. Attention has been focussed on the variations of the surface layer resistance during and after such discharges. These effects were studied over a range of surface power densities, the power of the discharge with respect to the area of the insulator surface affected by the discharge, of 4 to 360 watts/ cm2 in air."
"In my paper presented at the 1959 Conference on Electrical Insulation1, it was reported that a sudden increase in the rate of weight loss of polychlorotrifluoroethylene, known as CTFE, was observed after heating had been conducted for a period of time. As shown in figure 1, the phenomenon was observed to occur between 840 and 1000 hours of heating at 235°C. A corresponding increase in the rate of molecular weight degradation was also apparent."
"A study of the effects of gamma radiation on the electrical conductivity of glasses is of interest because of the practical uses of these insulators, and because the mechanism of induced conductivity is not expected to be affected by chemical degradation caused by the irradiation as in the case of organic insulation."
"New insulating materials and structural plastics, as they become commercially available, have been routinely examined by the Radiation and Nucleonics laboratory of the Westinghouse Materials laboratories. Despite our increasing understanding of the radiation chemistry of organic materials, such investigations often uncover interesting and unsuspected effects. Two brief studies of this sort which were carried out in recent months will be described. The irradiations were carried out with 2 MEV electrons from a Van de Graaff accelerator."
"At power line frequencies the electrical loss in a dielectric liquid is dominated by two mechanisms, namely: (1) the intrinsic dipolar loss and (2) the ionic conduction loss. The practical problem is to-define, in a broad sense, how the molecular parameters of the systems relate the dielectric constant to the electrical loss."
"Polar organic materials, which have high dielectric constants in the liquid state, usually have low dielectric constants when solid. The reason for this behavior is that as the material solidifies, the dipoles become frozen in, and the molecules can no longer orient themselves in the electrical field. There are however a number of organic materials which do not follow this general pattern of dielectric behavior. These materials, called rigid rotators, retain their freedom of rotation in the solid state and therefore have high dielectric constants well below their melting points."
"It is known that the electrical conductivity of most inorganic glasses is electrolytic in nature and generally determined by its alkali metal content. It has been shown1 from simple assumptions of elasticity and of ionic crystal theory that the Na+ ion has the highest conductivity in glasses, and all observations indicate this. The high mobility of the alkali metal ion is also shown in the high dielectric losses of glasses which contain such ions. Stevels2 and Sutton3 have excellent reviews of the electrical properties of glasses."
"Because of continued interest in a chemical interpretation of electrical properties the technique of dielectric spectroscopy has been used to determine the molecular configurations of a series of symmetrical diesters of dibasic acids. From a study of the change in the dielectric constants and loss factors brought about by systematic changes in the number of carbon atoms in both the original alcohol and the dibasic acid the possible range of these values has been established. These esters are all white solids and considerable variation in both the physical and electrical properties is observed. From consideration of these characteristics the arrangement of the molecules within the crystalline lattice and the freedom to rotate with changes in temperature and frequency have been established."
"Cellulose papers expand and contract when the humidity of the atmosphere with which they are in equilibrium changes. This phenomenon - known as hygroexpansivity - plays a significant role in the manufacture of such electrical components as capacitors, cables and transformers due to the shrinkage and consequent mechanical instability which the units suffer on being dried before impregnation. While many investigations have been made of the phenomenon, most of the work has been hampered and made useless by the failure of the researchers to establish repeatable data. It was the purpose of this work to determine why the effect was not reproducible within close limits and from the results to understand the mechanism of hygroexpansivity."
"A theoretical study of the dielectric properties of loaded plastic foam was undertaken in connection with the development of a medium for radar lenses. The medium must combine low density with stringent dielectric requirements. A suitable material may be fabricated by loading polystyrene foam of very low density with aluminum slivers of practical dimensions."
"In a system where a number of transmission lines are fed from a common source, the phase relationship at the far end of the lines is determined by the electrical length of the transmission lines. This length is a function of the physical length and the dielectric constant of the line. Any variation in the dielectric constant or the physical length of the transmission line will cause a change in the electrical length and result in changed phase relationship at the far end of the line. This paper investigates the variation in the electrical length with temperature of several coaxial transmission lines."
"Wide toleration of metallic fillers is indicated by liquid epoxy resins. Filler additions are usually motivated by considerations of enhanced physical and electrical qualities. The changes which occur are not always predictable. In this paper a study is made of the changes taking place in the properties of an epoxy resin by the addition of metallic fillers."
"Conference proceedings front matter may contain various advertisements, welcome messages, committee or program information, and other miscellaneous conference information. This may in some cases also include the cover art, table of contents, copyright statements, title-page or half title-pages, blank pages, venue maps or other general information relating to the conference that was part of the original conference proceedings."
"The following topics are dealt with: switchgear insulation; machine insulation, transformer insulation; and insulating materials."
"Presents the author index from this conference."
"In recent years, interest in 155°C materials and Class F insulation systems has been increasing rapidly and apparently the general feeling in the motor industry is that use of such systems will gradually increase in the future. This feeling is made obvious by the amount of research and development work being done by various organizations to create and evaluate 155°C materials. The papers in this session are good examples of the type of work being done. In addition, NEMA has established the Class F temperature limitations to be used as the suggested standard for future design. However, there also appears to be considerable uncertainty as to just what the eventual demand for Class F systems will be. The objective of this paper is to discuss some of the problems facing Class F systems and to give some insight as to whether large volume usage of such systems van be justified economically."
"Since 1955 the Rogers Corporation has been engaged in research and development in the field of synthetic fiber papers. For the past 3 years this work has been aimed primarily at the development of flexible, paperlike structures suitable for use as electrical insulation in rotating machinery. This paper is intended to serve as a progress report on the work done to date."
"As indicated previously, use of the term \"Class F\" has become increasingly prevalent. Many users of electrical insulation are intensely interested and are inquiring about the availability of such materials. They want to design equipment in the 155°C range, but must have materials which can retain their properties sufficiently and adequately to insulate their motors, transformers, and other electrical equipment."
"In the last three decades many new synthetic organic resins have come from the research laboratories of our chemical industry. When these are applied as an insulating film on a copper wire, and subjected to the many evaluation tests of the magnet wire industry, we can learn much about their fundamental properties. An insulated magnet wire to be used successfully for winding electrical equipment - must have an unusual combination of physical, chemical, thermal and electrical properties. The film insulation on copper magnet wire must be very flexible, and have good abrasion resistance for winding. It must be chemically stable and must have good solvent resistance. Thermally, it must maintain electrical properties against time and temperature for the designed life of the apparatus: and it must physically have good form stability at the extremes of temperature encountered. Electrically, it must have a high dielectric strength and maintain this electrical strength under the environmental conditions of service. In our judgment, the application of a synthetic resin as a film on copper magnet wire permits a better evaluation of synthetic resin properties than any other method in use in industry today."
"The concept of functional testing of materials in combination in systems and its value beyond simple material property tests has been widely accepted by the electrical industry and the insulation materials suppliers, The accelerated interest in insulation systems and in the testing of systems is shown by the tremendous increase in published articles and magazine and technical journal coverage of all phases of electrical insulation in the last ten years as well as the highly successful technical sessions of this conference in its short life since the first meeting in Cleveland in 1958."
"Metal-clad switchgear, as defined in American Standards, “Consists of an indoor or outdoor metal structure containing switching equipment and other associated equipment, such as instrument transformers, buses, and connections. The transformers, buses and connections are insulated and placed in separate grounded compartments. The circuit breaker is equipped with self-coupling disconnecting devices and etc\"."
"Todays growing distribution systems require economical protective devices with more and more interrupting ability. The current trend in oil circuit breakers is toward interruption of higher currents in a shorter period of time. Fast, efficient performance results in greatly reduced arcing times and the amount of the electrical energy dissipated. This in turn means reduced carbonization of oil and contact burning and better system coordination by providing faster short-circuit interruption. Auxiliary equipment such as air brake switches and open fuse cut-outs must also be capable of handling higher system loadings with full assurance of positive interruption in the complete range of fault currents. Epoxy glass tubing is being used to meet the above requirements and also as a protective liner in the large air blast circuit breakers to prevent a sudden release of gas or air in the event of external damage to the outer porcelain shell."
"Compreg is a general term indicating a laminated material made by impregnating wood veneers with a synthetic resin and compressing the material while polymerizing the resin; in other words, it is impregnated and compressed."
"Miniature electrical connectors manufactured in conformance to Specification MIL-C-26500 (USAF) are designed as two separate units which when mated provide for multiple electrical circuits having the ability to perform satisfactorily during extreme environmental condition. The outstanding features of this development are the physical size and performance achieved under extreme environmental conditions. The paramount development responsible for accomplishing these features is the composite dielectric material. The results obtained from this development contract plus supporting manufacture experience have shown that composite dielectric construction of resilient silicone and hard epoxy dielectric possess the necessary electrical and mechanical properties to meet the requirements of MIL-C-26500 (USAF). In addition, the resilient silicone developed by Amphenol incorporates sufficient mechanical strength to permit mold construction employing acute discontinuities in combination with .025 inch molded sections. Resilient silicone and hard epoxy are chemically bonded to form integral dielectric inserts which provide for environmental sealing at both the mating surfaces of the connector assembly plus the wire termination scaling areas. Correspondingly the contact retention device is housed internally in the integral and/or composite inserts. Bonding of the intersurfaces which form the interfaces between the three dielectric insert components eliminating air voids thereby protecting the connectors from degrading environmental conditions."
"The authors present a summary of the progress made in a development program, covering three years work, on the construction of suitable insulating systems for high temperature aircraft wire."
"Net too long see the range of insulating manuals for d.c. rotating machines was limited to organic fabrics, paper, mica asbestos and a few simple natural resins and compounds. These materials are sound and in many places are still serving then purpose well. In the last decade the number and variety of insulation materials available have increased many fold. The synthetic resins, the fibre glasses, the reconstituted micas, the synthetic fibres and films in their varied forms and characteristics have provided a wealth of new materials and combination of materials which have enabled machine designers to do a better job, providing greater reliability, greater economy, and wider range of application."
"Mica segments have been used for commutator insulation for about seventy years. The type produced at the turn of the century was very inferior to that being used today. It certainly would not survive the compressive force, temperature requirements, or spin test exerted or required of this more modern era. This presentation is intended to evaluate amid compare the numerous mica segment materials available with respect to the primary requisites: dielectric strength, compression---both hot and cold, and stability at high pressures and temperatures."
"The large number of insulation materials now available and the increasing rate at which new materials are being introduced make it more and more difficult for an insulation engineer to stay abreast of his field. The overly enthusiastic and optimistic claims made by some manufacturers and vendors, many of whom are applying classifications and designations to materials and systems where tests to establish such designations have not yet even been formulated, make it essential that screening and evaluation tests be an integral part of any acceptance or use proposal."
"When new materials are introduced into an established insulating system it is important to consider the effects of the new insulation system on the other insulating materials in the system. Gaseous by-products and liquid exudates from one unstable component may degrade the entire system. For this reason epoxy resin systems have been developed which are compatible with conventional wire enamels, with most encapsulating resins, and with oleoresinous varnish impregnants."
"The advances in insulating materials in the past few years have been major indeed. Yet the users of electrical apparatus are continually imposing new demands on those who manufacture the products containing insulation and upon the technology of the materials themselves. Controls, motors and other devices are now becoming physically smaller with respect to the duties they must perform. The result is that frequently wire and other insulated materials must operate at much higher temperature than was required just a few years ago. In several industries the insulation systems of controls and motors are exposed to specific atmospheres differing in many respects from the more normal exposure to air. For example hermetic refrigeration motors operate in an atmosphere of the refrigerant gas used in the system. In addition they may be exposed for extended periods to liquified refrigerant."
"This class of materials has become of greater importance during the past years for both military and non-military applications. It might be well to briefly elaborate on the title as it applies to this session."
"New and Challenging fields have been opened by these copper and aluminum film insulated wires The upgrading of temperatures for electrical apparatus and controls generally goes hand-in-hand with the reduction of overall size and weight of the equipment. In the pursuit of size and weight reduction, each and every component of the total unit must sooner or later be subjected to intelligent scrutiny. Reductions in size of some components may not necessarily involve increased temperatures."
"The rapid advances being made in the airborne instrument field necessitates the use of higher temperature electrical insulating materials which will withstand severe thermal ageing and cycling, humidity, salt spray, fungus, vibration and MIL-L-7808 diester type oils. This paper covers the formulation and evaluation of high-temperature encapsulating and impregnating resins. The resins considered were conventional bisphenol A types (Epon 828), epoxide novolacs (Dow DEN 438 and Dow X2638.1) and Epoxide 201 and 207 (Union Carbide). The catalysts considered were pyromellitic dianhydride, phthalic anhydride, maleic anhydride, Nadic methyl anhydride and hexahydro-phthalic anhydride."
"Mica is surely no stranger to the manufacturer of rotating electrical machinery; it is as old as the industry. Within the last three to five years or so, a quiet revolution has begun in the mica industry. New synthetic binders have come into general usage, new forms of mica have become standard products. Mica papers, in tapes and in sheets, have given industry products which are so unlike the old that a complete reexamination of mica products is in order. Among these new products are mica laminates."
"The recent development of new alumina filled, highly track resistant insulating materials has focused attention on the new ASTM \"Suggested Method of Test for Dust and Fog Tracking Resistance of Electrical Insulating Materials\", which unfortunately requires 200 to 1000 hours to evaluate the better materials of this class. The required long duration of the test has been a serious limitation in the development of improved materials and in the quality control of these materials."
"Electrical insulation used in circuit breakers and various switching devices may be subjected to periodic arcing in the vicinity of moving contacts. Other insulating components are frequently under voltage stress and become susceptible to surface tracking when surface contaminants are present. It has been necessary for the insulation engineer to develop test methods for evaluating the arc and track resistance of electrical insulating materials so that these materials can be properly applied. The resulting test methods have differed depending upon the nature of the intended application, the philosophy of the investigator, apparatus cost limitations and the general desire for universal acceptability. Experience has shown that only a limited amount of correlation can be found between test results obtained from any two or more test methods described in this paper. It has been observed that such factors as arc intensity, electrode configuration and spacing, and arcing time greatly affect the test results. In an effort to create a better understanding of the correlation or lack of correlation between test results from the various arc and track resistance tests, the “power density concept” was postulated by L. Mandclcorn1."
"For many years, the evaluation of mica products for electrical machinery other than actual field service has been largely limited to a short time dielectric strength test. This naturally resulted in rather slow acceptance of new materials and undoubtedly held back progress with many new product developments. We cannot afford the time to live with this type of evaluation in the modern era of rapid technical developments. Neither can we afford to build production units to evaluate ever new material that holds promise of improved properties and lower cost."
"In order to manufacture high quality electrical equipment for our customers and to maintain a strong competitive position in the electrical industry, it has always been necessary to maintain very rigid standards in the selection of new insulating materials for electrical equipment. This paper discusses the best evaluation techniques which have been developed or adopted during the past ten years and are being used in the selection of insulating varnishes for Class H electrical apparatus. This paper also contains a description of the testing methods used in the evaluation of varnishes and includes data which illustrates these methods. These methods can be modified to include all classes of insulating varnishes."
"The recent large increase in the number of new wire enamels, with the attendant emphasis on improvement in some particular wire property, necessitates refocusing our attention on the test methods used to obtain these values. Many of these are time honored tests and it is sometimes taken for granted that they will give meaningful values. This results in a tendency to put a number, or a small range, on a given wire property without any direct reference to the degree of accuracy or reproducibility of the test involved. Further the weighting placed, on the reliability of the test method will vary depending on whether the reader's viewpoint is in terms of: a. enamel acceptance b. wire mill production c. equipment manufacture. In this paper, an attempt has been made to measure the reproducibility of the tests under carefully controlled conditions, in which the known variables are held constant or deliberately varied in a known manner. Thus, the test variations reported represent the best values to be expected from a given procedure and any change would tend to increase the variation. The large potential variable represented by the cleanliness and condition of the bare wire surface is not treated here. However, several different types of enamel, from different sources, and using different wire samples of each have been used in an attempt to minimize the effect of this variable. Copper wire was used throughout, bare wire diameter ranging from .0253 to .0508 inches. Also, since conceive and smoothness a re properties that will vary continuously over any wire sample, the above procedure will tend to \"average out\" these variations."
"Recent developments in liquid epoxy resins have made available compounds capable of impregnating and insulating wire wound equipment. These compounds have demonstrated good thermal stability in the cured condition, and when properly applied, are fulfilling the qualities of a good impregnating compound. The epoxy impregnating resins discussed in this paper are complete liquid systems before they are cured, which classifies them as “Solvent-less” varnish systems. The absence of solvents or volatiles from the impregnating systems for motors and generators has its advantages in the following: 1. Flammability hazards are minimized. 2. Shrinkage accompanying solvent evaporation is eliminated. 3. Multiple impregnating operations are no longer necessary. 4. Voids in the windings are minimized."
"Excellent thermal stability and electric performance combined with scalability were the chief properties which caused the electrical insulation design engineer to take note of silicone rubber. Several years of successful operating experience in rotating equipment and cable applications have shown that the interest was well founded. This paper discusses the application of silicone rubber tapes with particular consideration of materials and processes necessary to fabricate a reliable insulation system."
"It has been recognized for many years that a high potential test at the service frequency is a reliable indicator of the suitability of an insulation system for the service period. However, because a high capacitance apparatus requires large charging KVA at the test voltages and service frequency, it is often not convenient nor possible to apply the service frequency high potential test at field installations. The choice is then between applying no voltage at all during field maintenance programs, or to use a substitute for the service frequency on such apparatus as steam turbine generators, hydroelectric machines, large electric motors, or power cables. One substitute often used presently is the d-c high potential test. The testing KVA is minimum in this instance, and primarily for this reason d-c testing techniques have received a great deal of acceptance."
"Transformer insulation is a broad subject involving many types of materials and numerous methods of test. These materials can be combined in many ways in different designs to operate under various environmental conditions. In addition, insulating materials are called upon to help meet the thermal and mechanical requirements of a transformer as well as the dielectric requirements. This paper is general ill scope in dealing with the manufacturer's point of view in the field of insulation for power and distribution transformers. Progress is traced and the problems of the transformer designer are discussed from the standpoint of suggested developments in the application and evaluation of new and improved insulating materials."
"Amid the highly technical papers presented at a conference such as this, it has been suggested that it might be well if there were a few comments from a representative of those who are the ultimate beneficiaries of these developments, the end-users. While no one end-user can fully represent all of the others, this paper will review one particular process by which transformers are selected and new developments evaluated. This should suggest the general problems of the users, although others might make different evaluations."
"Dry type transformers arc transformers in which the dielectric medium is atmospheric air or nitrogen. Some are ventilated or free breathing while others are hermetically sealed. In both kinds the principal dielectric medium-air or nitrogen - has a dielectric constant of unity while the available insulation materials have dielectric constants considerably greater. This presents a relatively perplexing problem to the designer of such transformers in that for most electrode configurations encountered considerable dielectric stress is imposed on the air or nitrogen which is by comparison with other common dielectric media mineral oil and Chlorextol a relatively poor insulator."
"Class H insulating materials have gone thru a very rapid development period in the past ten or fifteen years, with the introduction of many new and versatile materials in varied forms. They are mainly based on a combination of heat stable fibrous materials, such as asbestos and glass fibers, with silicone resins and rubbers used to fill the spaces between and around the fibers. This marriage of mechanical strength, dielectric strength, and heat stability has gone thru a steady improvement in quality and dependability along with cost reductions brought about by greater volume and improved manufacturing techniques. At the same time, engineers and designers have learned to utilize the best qualities while minimizing the short comings of these materials. This paper describes the development of improved barriers achieved by the introduction of another heat stable material of extraordinary qualities."
"Design engineers have traditionally selected electrical pressure-sensitive adhesive tapes to match the temperatures ratings of their equipment. With the advent of thermosetting adhesives a few years ago, these types advanced from their temporary-holding role to that of “Pressure-Sensitive Electrical Tapes as Designed-In Components”1. Having a permanent job to do, an electrical tape's behavior during overload and transient conditions became important. General information on this subject was first published by 3M in technical form in 19592. This covered 9 classes of tape and listed temperatures suitable for “Days to Weeks” operation as well as temperature limits for “Short Time Surge” conditions."
"This paper describes and tabulates the results obtained from a high-temperature modification of both the well-established AIFE #57 method and the proposed Curved Electrode method for evaluating wire enamels and insulating varnishes. In most previously reported work, based on both the Voltage Breakdown and Proof Voltage methods, voltage measurements were recorded at - or near room temperature. Since elevated temperature permit a closer approximation of the actual condition that develop in an operating motor or transformer, a more reliable evaluation of the insulation under investigation should result."
"Presents testing and evaluation results of thermal endurance of rigid electrical insulation systems."
"The servicing of electrical rotating equipment has become in important segment of American industry. Each year there is an increase in the installed horsepower of generators and to the utilization of electricity. Rotating equipment represents large part of both the generating apparatus and the motors and or devices driven from electric power sources. Even the best of electrical designs require some servicing and maintenance hiring its useful life. The total annual repair bill for rotating electrical machinery makes this a multi-million dollar industry, and the investment in tools and manpower runs into the billions 4 dollars to permit rendering this repair service efficiently and economically."
"Rotating electric machines contain conductors, a magnetic circuit and insulation in both the stationary and rotating elements. These elements, along with the mechanical supporting structure form the essential design components of the machine. The electrical insulation is one of the most important factors in determining the reliability of a machine. Much of the uncertainty in connection with machine maintenance concerns the proper evaluation of the insulation condition and the detection and correction of conditions which may have an adverse affect on insulation life. This paper deals with the testing techniques involved in a well planned preventive maintenance program and outlines some of the fundamental principles."
"Repair shop insulation practice for many years was simple and straight-forward. Most problems were solved by cotton, paper and impregnants, such as asphaltum or oleoresinous base varnishes. Electric motors were generally over-designed and applied with simple controls on constant speed applications. During the last decade, the whole concept of industrial application has changed - variable speeds, frequent starts and stops, compact designs, higher temperatures and complex electronic controls are now commonplace. And they have increased the scope of the industrial service organization."
"Much time, effort, and money are being spent today to develop new and exotic insulation for rotating electrical equipment. Insulation specialists are able to determine to the most minute detail the chemical, physical, and electrical characteristics of the insulation. But the reliability factor is almost forgotten."
"Electrical insulation can be said to be a state of matter rather than a class of materials because there are so many kinds of materials that can be used for insulation. These range from organic fibers, resins, oils, glasses, crystals, minerals and salts through a wide variety of highly dissimulate chemical compounds. All insulating materials are characterized by a scarcity of free elections in their physical structure. Thus, while insulators will conduct current when subjected to electric voltages, the currents are very minute and require relatively high voltages to produce them. It is important that insulators be considered as conductors of very high resistivity. Frequently their resistivity is so high that the current can be neglected for power equipment. Practically the dividing line between conductors and insulators is indefinite as they are separated by another group of materials of intermediate conduction levels."
"Any elemental discussion of electrical insulation should properly take into account the prime function of an electrical insulating material and the peculiar properties which distinguish these materials from the myriad material substances now available to modern man. At the turn of the century, this was a relatively simple task. Today, the insulation specialist is confronted with a host of insulating materials - many the product of modern polymer chemistry. From these materials he must select the right insulating material for a particular job. This is no easy task. It underscores anew the necessity of understanding the fundamental function or functions of electrical insulating materials when used in specific electrical apparatus."
"In attempting to condense insulation fundamentals for transformers into a short paper, a possible procedure is to recognize the steps ordinarily used in problem solving. This includes definition of the problem, recognize relationships, examine and analyze component parts, plan a method of attack, find a solution based on fundamental principles, appraise the solution and make a decision. From these steps, the reader can proceed to increase his knowledge. General transformer fundamentals will be considered for dry-type and liquid-immersed distribution and power ratings. This will involve 25 kva to 3,000 kva, 5 kv to 15 kv class dry-type transformers, 25 kva to 500 kva, 8.6 kv to 13.8 kv liquid-filled distribution transformers and power ratings above 501 kva through higher voltage classes liquid-filled."
"The last twenty years have covered a period which has seen drastic changes in the insulating materials used in electric motors. The method of using these materials, however, has remained virtually unchanged. This paper will attempt to illustrate how a motor is insulated and why. The comparison of the virtues of the newer materials with the old standbys will no doubt be the subject of papers being presented in other sessions of this conference."
"Electrical insulation used in electronic components as applied to military alιparatus must withstand extreme environmental conditions. These multiple requirements complicate the selection of insulation materials to give optimum life and reliability. Representative examples of typical insulation applications are given, as well as special applications which may show the trend of things to come. From all indications, such as the space age ahead, it would seem that art-advancing work in electrical insulation materials as applied to electronics will continue and that new materials will be devrloped to help solve the many problems encountered."
"In this session we are limiting our discussions to the usual, day-by-day problems encountered in the use of glass epoxy laminates in making printed wiring assemblies; we will eschew the esoteric problems of ultra high temperatures, exotic materials and the like. We have as much as we can handle with what has to be done right now; we'll let someone else solve tomorrow's problems."
"FIBERGLAS* yarns are manufactured by melting glass at high temperature (2400°F-2800°F) in specially made bushings of furnaces equipped with very small holes in the bottom. As the molten glass runs through these holes, the fibers are pulled at a very high rate of speed to reduce the diameter to the desired size. As the fibers are being pulled out of the bushing a binder is applied to them which serves to hold the individual filaments as an integral part of the strand. This binder is a very critical part of the operation because it enables the individual yarn to be unwound, plied, and twisted into various other combination yarns before weaving into cloth. The binder serves two purposes: first, it maintains strand integrity and, second, it protects the fibers from physical breakage during candling and weaving."
"Long thermosetting resins used in the preparation of paper fiberglass cloth reinforced electrical grade laminates, epoxy are gaining increasing acceptance. These resins have surface activity which enhances wetting of and adhesion wide variety of reinforcing substrates. They cure under range of temperatures and pressures with a low volume usage and without evolving condensation by-products."
"Packaging of military electronic equipment frequently utilizes etched circuit boards. The need for insulating, or protective, coatings on etched boards is recognized, particularly if the circuit boards are to be used in even moderately severe environments. Protective coatings must maintain a high resistance between conductive paths on circuit boards, must maintain cleanliness, prevent corrosion, and occasionally the coating must contribute to the mechanical integrity of the completed circuit. To effect the desired performance, the typical list of coating properties is as follows: 1) High moisture resistance consistent with good recovery 2) Resistance to thermal shock 3) Good adhesion to coated materials 4) Uniform wetting properties 5) High insulation resistance 6) Long pot life 7) Short time and low temperature cure 8) Ease of processing."
"For the insulation of high-voltage windings of electrical apparatus two fundamental insulation systems and manufacturing methods have been in use during many years. In the U. S., a continuous hand wound mica tape insulation was preferred on the slot and coil end portion, which was impregnated with asphalt in vacuum in several operational steps. In Europe, to the contrary, many manufacturers insulated their machine windings with mica tubes on the slot portion, which were produced by wrapping on and pressing of shellac or asphalt micafolium in hot presses, and mica and varnished-cloth tapes on the end winding. In both types of insulation mica splittings have proved successful as a supporting component of the thermally, mechanically, and electrically high stressed slot insulation. On asphalt insulations difficulties arised from insufficient adhesivity of the bonding agent at excessive temperature rise thereby permitting displacement of the insulation. An improvement had become the more urgent as a higher reliability of the insulation was required with increasing machine rating."
"The following account of European testing practice and methods of testing electrical insulating materials is best appreciated if it is preceded by a brief resume of the volume of production of the West-European electrical industry and of the distribution of the total production among the individual countries."
"The overall objective of this session is to acquaint, indeed impress, the electrical design engineer with the fundamental position that molecular structure occupies with respect to the many questions and problems encountered in the optimal choice and utilization of electrical insulation. The major portion of the session will be devoted to problems encountered in the applition of dielectrics in the gaseous, liquid or solid states with particular emphasis on the relationship between molecular structure and performance."
"In this brief discussion, the general natures of the molecular structures of insulating materials will be presented and some relationships between structure and physical properties and thermal and oxidative stability will be pointed out."
"The first electrical property we shall discuss is the d.c. conductivity. Gases have essentially no d.c. conductivity beyond that due to stray charges produced by various radioactive processes always present. The reason for this lack of conductivity even when the gas is composed of a substance quite conducting in the liquid state is the difficulty of separating charge in a medium of low dielectric constant."
"For centuries, matter has been understood by man largely in terms of its gross, macroscopic properties. To the electrical engineer this has usually meant such properties as resistivity, permeability, permittivity, and dielectric strength. Engineering design calculations have traditionally been based on tables of experimentally-derived “average” values of such properties. The limitations of the materials described in such tables have, in a major way, delineated the frontiers of engineering achievement to date."
"To many engineers not directly concerned with the more basic theories of dielectrics behavior, and, it must be recognized, even to some persons having a good knowledge of the electrical properties of individual insulating materials, it is often difficult to understand the detailed behavior of any particular insulation system. In other papers of this tutorial session, eminent speakers, well versed in their fields, have outlined the various fundamental relationships governing the properties of materials as related to structure of the individual materials, and it is the purpose of this paper to discuss briefly some of the phenomena which arise when combinations of insulating materials are used in more practical situations, and to focus discussion on how these phenomena can be related to basic relationships already established. With this more detailed understanding, it is also possible to see what advances can be made, and in what direction, for future development work in improved composite dielectric materials and insulation systems generally."
"A great deal of importance has been placed on electronics during the age of automation and the ever increasing requirement for high reliability of electronic packages. Numerous problems have been encountered in assuring the successful and continuous operation of electronics in different environments. Temperature variations both high and low, humidity changes, shock and vibration are some of the major problems that have been encountered. Until a decade ago, the most widely accepted solutions for these problems was the use of epoxy resins. The biggest disadvantage of epoxy's is their high weight. Excess poundage added by epoxies is undesirable for airborne electronic units and ground computor installations. Many manufacturers began searching for a new material that would meet their specifications and have a lower density than the epoxies. The proper selection and correct applications of polyurethane foams seemed to be the logical answer. A tyical example is found in Remington Rand's Univac where a 10 pound PCF density polyurethane replaced a 120 pound PCF epoxy. The use of Urethanes can mean a reduction of a half ton in a large computor."
"Silicone dielectric materials, because of their unique properties, are used to improve reliability and to extend the life of electronic components and assemblies where: a. temperatures up to 250C are continuously encountered; b. transient temperatures up to 400 or 500C are encountered; c. repairability or depotting of encapsulated equipment is desirable; d. temperatures down to -70C are encountered; e. size and weight must be reduced; f. dielectric losses at frequencies from dc to 1.0 kcms must be reduced; g. components and assemblies must be protected from moisture; h. components and assemblies must be protected from environmental materials; i. corona is encountreed; j. nuclear radiation is encountered."
"A great many statements have been made by various business and economic experts about opportunities expected to materialize during the decade - now hopefully being referred to as “The Soaring Sixties”. A number of these statements have proven - at least for the present - to have been overly optimistic. However, one prediction about this decade - which incidentally went almost unnoticed - is continually evident to those of us in the field of marketing. This was the prognostication that the 1960's would be a decade of change - even if the only predictable change seems to be change itself. Significantly, it is also becoming the decade in which the marketing function is maturing and taking its place at decision making levels of management. That these two phenomena are occuring simultaneously is not surprising, as it has been evident to a number of farsighted individuals - and some corporations - for a number of years that sales management and top management are being forced to make a good many decisions in response to changing market conditions without adequate knowledge of marketing facts affecing the situations involved. In other cases, facts concerning various marketing problems have been erroneous or evaluated inadequately at organizational levels below that at which final decisions must be made. Thus, it has become apparent that a real need exists for professional marketing staffs capable of assimilating statistical and other factual data, analyzing and evaluating this and other pertinent information and recommending to policy making levels of management desirable marketing actions to be taken. The increasing rate at which markets, products, lines of distribution and pricing, and other policy changes, now occur, has served as a final stimulus to many managements to acquire such personnel and to place them in positions of suitable responsibility. For these executives realize the only certainty is that things will change a great deal faster tomorrow than they are changing today and that successful businesses will be the ones which can discern these changes at an early stage and gear company marketing programs in such a manner as to fully exploit the opportunities created by changing business environments. In this connection, it should be kept in mind that change generally brings more opportunities than problems - although unfortunately, most of us tend to acknowledge only the latter. A skilled marketing group however, can keep management informed about current problem areas and what to do about them and also provide information as to the opportunities presented by continually changing patterns of business. This second area of marketing responsibility is no less important in our highly competitive business society than the first - indeed, it is through this type of approach that a major portion of future economic growth must occur."
"I have been asked to speak to you today on \"How to Introduce a New Product\". This sounds simple enough on the surface - and would be if we were discussing techniques involved in getting an appealing, uncomplicated, consumer-type product to the market. But we are not. We are in a materials a component products - business, and nobody buys what we are selling on impulse alone. Far from it."
"At last year's Insulation Conference there were four papers presented at the Marketer's Meeting. They were: \"What the Purchasers Expect from the Marketers of Electrical Insulation\" \"What the Manufacturer Expects from the Marketers of Electrical Insulation\" \"What the Design Engineer Expects from the Marketers of Electrical Insulation\" and finally Ned Phelan of Prehler was able to get in a word for the Marketers with \"What the Marketer Expects from the Manufacturer of Electrical Insulation\"."
